ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Profits. Future changes in interest rates could impact our financial condition and results of operations. Net income is the amount by which net interest income and non-interest income exceeds non-interest expense and the provision for loan losses. Net interest income makes up a majority of our income and is based on the difference between: • interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and 33 Table of Contents • interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We are vulnerable to changes in interest rates including the shape of the yield curve because of a mismatch between the terms to repricing of our assets and liabilities. Historically, our liabilities repriced more quickly than our assets, which made us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. For the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, our net interest margin was 3.08% and 3.11%, respectively. Our Asset/Liability Management Committee utilizes a computer simulation model to provide an analysis of estimated changes in net interest income in various interest rate scenarios. At September 30, 2011, in the event of an immediate 100 basis point decrease in interest rates, our model projects an increase in our net portfolio value of $1.3 million, or 2.0%. In the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in interest rates, our model projects a decrease in our net portfolio value of $2.9 million, or 5.0%. Changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. We Have Increased and Plan to Continue to Increase Our Levels of Non-Residential Loans, Which in Turn Increase Our Exposure to Credit Risks. At September 30, 2011, our portfolio of non-residential loans totaled $20.7 million, or 11.2% of our total loans, compared to $15.6 million, or 8.5% of our total loans at September 30, 2010. We intend to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans consistent with safety and soundness. Non-residential loans generally expose a lender to a greater risk of loss than one- to four-family residential loans. Repayment of such loans generally depends, in large part, on sufficient income from the property or the borrower’s business, respectively, to cover operating expenses and debt service. These types of loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Changes in economic conditions that are beyond the control of the borrower and lender could affect the value of the security for the loan, the future cash flow of the affected property or business, or the marketability of a construction project with respect to loans originated for the acquisition and development of property. As we increase our portfolio of these loans, we may experience higher levels of non-performing assets and/or loan losses. Finally, a significant portion of our non-residential loan portfolio is unseasoned, meaning that such loans have been originated recently. It is difficult to assess the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio, and these loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience. We target our business lending and marketing strategy towards small- to medium-sized businesses. These small- to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. While We Intend to Increase our Portfolio of Adjustable-Rate Residential Mortgage Loans, Market Conditions, Competition and Demand for such Loans in our Market Area May Not Allow Us To Do So. Such Loans Also Present Certain Risks. We may not be successful in executing our plan to increase significantly the percentage of our one- to four-family residential mortgage loans with adjustable-rate mortgages. In order to reduce our vulnerability to changes in interest rates, in 2009, we changed our business strategy to increase our focus on adjustable-rate mortgage loans. In addition, in fiscal year 2010, we began selling substantially all of our originated fixed-rate one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. 34 Table of Contents Historically, it has often been difficult for thrift institutions to originate adjustable-rate mortgage loans with a spread that compares favorably with the cost of funds. During the year ended September 30, 2011, we were able to originate $20.4 million of adjustable-rate mortgage loans, most of which carried rates that adjust annually at a spread of 3.5% over the applicable index (the weekly average yield on United States Treasury securities). At September 30, 2011, $58.9 million, or 17.96% of our assets consisted of adjustable-rate mortgage loans. Although adjustable-rate mortgage loans may reduce to an extent our vulnerability to changes in market interest rates because they periodically reprice, as interest rates increase the required payments due from the borrower also increase (subject to rate caps), increasing the potential for default by the borrower. At the same time, the ability of the borrower to repay the loan and the marketability of the underlying collateral may be adversely affected by higher interest rates. Upward adjustments of the contractual interest rate are also limited by the maximum periodic and lifetime rate adjustments permitted by our loan documents. Moreover, the interest rates on most of our adjustable-rate loans do not adjust for up to five years after origination. As a result, the effectiveness of adjustable-rate mortgage loans in compensating for changes in general interest rates may be limited during periods of rapidly rising interest rates. Our loan portfolio has greater risk than those of many savings institutions due to the substantial increase in automobile loans in our portfolio. Our loan portfolio includes a substantial number of motor vehicle loans, as well as other consumer loans. At September 30, 2011, our consumer loans totaled $17.0 million, or 9.2% of our total loan portfolio, of which motor vehicle loans totaled $7.3 million, or 4.0% of total loans. Automobile loans increased by $1.76 million from September 30, 2010 to September 30, 2011, and represented a large portion of the overall increase in our loan portfolio. As of September 30, 2011, we had $80,000 of motor vehicle loans delinquent 60 days or more, which was 2.8% of total delinquent loans 60 days or more past due. For the year ended September 30, 2011, we had no charge-offs of motor vehicle loans. As we continue to increase our automobile loan portfolio, we may experience increased delinquencies and charge-offs in future periods. Consumer loans generally have a greater risk of loss or default than one- to four-family residential real estate loans, particularly in the case of loans that are secured by rapidly depreciable assets, such as automobiles. We face the risk that any collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. Thus, the recovery and sale of such property could be insufficient to compensate us for the principal outstanding on these loans. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit our ability to recover on such loans. As a result of our relatively large portfolio of consumer loans, it may become necessary to increase our provision for loan losses in the event our losses on these loans increase, which would reduce our profits. If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Will Decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. While our allowance for loan losses was 0.90% of total loans at September 30, 2011, future additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency periodically reviews our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 35 Table of Contents Higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Insurance Premiums Have Increased Our Expenses and Any Future Insurance Premium Increases Will Adversely Affect Our Earnings. Effective April 1, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation increased its quarterly deposit insurance assessment rates and amended the method by which rates are calculated. Institutions are assigned an initial base assessment rate ranging from 12 to 45 basis points of deposits depending on risk category. The initial base assessment is then adjusted based upon the level of unsecured debt, secured liabilities and brokered deposits, to establish a total base assessment rate ranging from seven to 77.5 basis points. On May 22, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation levied a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $121,000 during the quarter ended June 30, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. Any further special assessments that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation also adopted a rule pursuant to which all insured depository institutions were required to prepay their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The prepayment amount was collected on December 30, 2009. The assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010 was based on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 was equal to the modified third quarter assessment rate plus an additional three basis points. In addition, each institution’s base assessment rate for each period was calculated using its third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. We recorded the pre-payment as a prepaid expense, which is being amortized to expense over three years. Based on our deposits and assessment rate as of September 30, 2009, our prepayment amount was $1.1 million, approximately $502,000 of which has been expensed through September 30, 2011. If our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assessments increase we may be required to incur additional expense if our prepaid assessments do not satisfy any such increase. On April 1, 2011, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation implemented a final rule under the Dodd-Frank Act that alters the way an institution’s assessment base is calculated. Under the final rule, an institution’s assessment base is now its average consolidated total assets less its average tangible equity. In addition, certain current rate adjustments were modified or eliminated, and the assessment range was modified. The United States Economy Remains Weak and Unemployment Levels Are High. Continued Adverse Economic Conditions, Especially Affecting Our Geographic Market Area, Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The United States experienced a severe economic recession in 2008 and 2009, the effects of which have continued. Recent growth has been slow and unemployment remains at high levels; as a result, economic recovery is expected to be slow. Loan portfolio quality has remained poor at many financial institutions reflecting, in part, the weak United States economy and high unemployment rates. In addition, the value of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages throughout the United States has declined. The real estate downturn also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing and increased delinquencies in construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans in many markets across the United States. Our lending market area consists of Greenup, Lawrence and Boyd Counties in Kentucky, and Lawrence and Scioto Counties in Ohio. These five counties have experienced minimal changes in population and households from 2000 to 2010, including population growth or shrinkage of 1.9%, 5.2%, -1.9%, 0.1% and -3.1%, respectively. In addition, the five counties have recorded only modest changes in the number of households from 2000 to 2010, consisting of household growth or shrinkage of 5.7%, 8.9%, 0.3%, 2.9% and -1.5%, respectively. While we did not originate or invest in sub-prime mortgages, our lending business is tied, in part, to the real estate market, which has been weakened by the recession. While we believe our lending market area has not been as adversely affected by the real estate crisis as some other areas of the country, real estate values and demand have softened and we remain vulnerable to adverse changes in the real estate market. In addition, a significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, could negatively affect our financial results. Finally, negative developments in the securities markets could adversely affect the value of our securities. 36 Table of Contents Financial Reform Legislation Recently Enacted by Congress Will Result in New Laws and Regulations That Are Expected to Increase Our Costs of Operations. Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) in 2010. This new law significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act had effects on us during the year ended September 30, 2011. For example, the Office of Thrift Supervision, which was the primary federal regulator for Home Federal, ceased to exist one year from the date of the new law’s enactment. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which is the primary federal regulator for national banks, also became the primary federal regulator for federal thrifts. Moreover, the Federal Reserve Board now supervises and regulates all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision, including Poage Bankshares. Also effective one year after the date of enactment was a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act that eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse effect on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Assessments are now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and authorizes the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance by their applicable bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet-to-be-written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. 37 Table of Contents Strong Competition Within Our Market Areas May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. In our five-county market area, including Boyd, Greenup and Lawrence Counties in Kentucky and Lawrence and Scioto Counties in Ohio, there are a total of 20 commercial bank and savings institution competitors, along with eight credit union competitors. The commercial banks and savings institutions operate a total of 88 branch offices in those counties, containing $2.7 billion of deposits. The commercial bank and savings institution competitors include those larger institutions with nationwide or regional operations, and local community institutions such as us that serve the local markets only. The credit union competitors consist of local community based institutions with total deposits of approximately $0.5 billion. The asset size of the largest credit union competitor approximates $250 million. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. For additional information see “Business of Home Federal Savings and Loan Association—Market Area and Competition.” The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of new legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. We Depend On Our Management Team To Implement Our Business Strategy And Execute Successful Operations And We Could Be Harmed By The Loss Of Their Services. We are dependent upon the services of our senior management team. Our strategy and operations are directed by the senior management team. We have benefited from consistency within our senior management team, with our top three executives averaging over 23 years of service with the Bank. Any loss of the services of our co-presidents and chief executive officers or other members of our senior management team could impact our ability to implement our business strategy, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to compete in our markets. See “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.” We Will Need to Implement Additional Finance and Accounting Systems, Procedures and Controls in Order to Satisfy Our New Public Company Reporting Requirements. This Will Increase Our Operating Expenses. In connection with the stock offering, we became a public company. The federal securities laws and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission require that we file annual, quarterly and current reports and that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. The obligations of being a public company, including substantial public reporting obligations, require significant expenditures and place additional demands on our management team. These obligations will increase our operating expenses and could divert our management’s attention from our operations. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission require us to certify the adequacy of our internal controls and procedures. The corresponding upgrade to our accounting systems will increase our operating costs. In addition, such requirements may cause us to hire additional accounting, internal audit and/or compliance personnel. 38 Table of Contents We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Laws and Regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a financial institution, the classification of assets by a financial institution, and the adequacy of a financial institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on us and our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the applicable laws, rules and regulations are subject to regular modification and change. Laws, rules and regulations may be adopted in the future that could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. Changes in Accounting Standards Could Affect Reported Earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting guidance that governs the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially affect how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply new or revised guidance retroactively. The Implementation of Stock-Based Benefit Plans May Dilute Your Ownership Interest. Following the stock offering, we intend to adopt one or more stock-based benefit plans, which will allow participants to be awarded shares of common stock (at no cost to them) and/or options to purchase shares of our common stock. If these stock-based benefit plans are funded from the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of common stock, stockholders would experience a reduction in ownership interest totaling 12.9%. Although the implementation of the stock-based benefit plan will be subject to stockholder approval, historically, the overwhelming majority of stock-based benefit plans adopted by savings institutions and their holding companies following mutual-to-stock conversions have been approved by stockholders. We Have Broad Discretion in Using the Proceeds of the Stock Offering. Our Failure to Effectively Use Such Proceeds Could Reduce Our Profits. We will use a portion of the net proceeds to finance the purchase of shares of common stock in the stock offering by the employee stock ownership plan and may use the remaining net proceeds to pay dividends to stockholders, repurchase shares of common stock, purchase investment securities, provide capital to Home Federal or for other general corporate purposes. Home Federal may use the net proceeds it receives to fund new loans, repay short-term borrowings, purchase investment securities, or for other general corporate purposes. We have not identified specific amounts of proceeds for any of these purposes and we will have significant flexibility in determining the amount of net proceeds we apply to different uses and the timing of such applications. Our failure to utilize these funds effectively could reduce our profitability. We have not established a timetable for the effective deployment of the proceeds and we cannot predict how long we will require to effectively deploy the proceeds, if at all. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 39 Table of Contents 