ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this report, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. The risk factors described below are not necessarily exhaustive and you are encouraged to perform your own investigation with respect to us and our business. You should also read the other information included in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Relating to Both Row 44’s and AIA’s Businesses Row 44’s and AIA’s businesses are highly dependent on the airline industry, which itself is affected by many events that are beyond the control of the airlines. The highly competitive nature of the airline industry makes it extremely sensitive to economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. Row 44’s and AIA’s businesses are directly affected by the number of passengers flying on commercial airlines, the financial condition of these airlines and related economic conditions. If consumer demand for air travel declines or the number of aircraft and flights shrink, the number of passengers available to use Row 44’s in-flight services and enjoy AIA’s delivered content will be reduced, which will have a material adverse effect on their financial condition and prospects. High unemployment rates, reduced consumer and business spending, recessionary conditions in the United States or Europe and terrorism are among the general economic and social conditions that adversely affect the airline industry. A general reduction or shift in discretionary spending can result in decreased demand for leisure and business travel and lead to a reduction in airline flights offered, the number of passengers flying and the willingness of airlines to commit to spending funds on items such as Row 44’s in-flight system. Each of Row 44’s and AIA’s airline customers operates in an intensely competitive environment and constantly faces pressure on in-flight offerings and pricing of all aspects of air travel. These uncertain and at times unfavorable financial circumstances in the air travel industry could cause one or more of Row 44’s or AIA’s commercial airline customers to reduce expenditures on passenger services, including the deployment of the Row 44 in-flight system or AIA’s in-flight content, which would have a material adverse effect on their business prospects and financial condition. Each of Row 44 and AIA is dependent on its airline customers to be able to generate revenue. The failure of either company to perform according to the terms of any agreement with any of its airline customers could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Each of Row 44 and AIA is required to deliver the products and services it provides according to a variety of performance level agreements and other contractual commitments. If Row 44 or AIA is unable to deliver its products or services in compliance with any of these agreements, its customers may terminate their agreements and Row 44’s or AIA’s prospects and its reputation in the marketplace may be materially adversely affected. A future act or threat of terrorism or other events could result in a prohibition on the use of Wi-Fi enabled devices on aircraft. A future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts or other airline accidents could have an adverse effect on the airline industry. In the event of a terrorist attack, terrorist threats or unrelated airline accidents, the industry would likely experience significantly reduced passenger demand. The U.S. federal government could respond to such events by prohibiting the use of Wi-Fi enabled devices on aircraft, which would eliminate demand for Row 44’s equipment and service. In addition, any association or perceived association between its equipment or service and accidents involving aircraft on which Row 44’s equipment or service operates would likely have an adverse effect on demand for both Row 44’s and AIA’s services. Reduced demand for their products and services would adversely affect Row 44’s and AIA’s business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Air traffic congestion at airports, air traffic control inefficiencies, weather conditions, such as hurricanes or blizzards, increased security measures, new travel-related taxes, the outbreak of disease or any other similar event could harm the airline industry. Airlines are subject to cancellations or delays caused by factors beyond their control. Cancellations or delays due to weather conditions or natural disasters, air traffic control problems, breaches in security or other factors could reduce the number of passengers on commercial flights and thereby reduce demand for the services provided by the Row 44 system and AIA’s products and services and harm their businesses, results of operations and financial condition. - 8 - Current economic conditions may impact the airline industry which in turn could have a material adverse effect on Row 44’s and AIA’s businesses. As a result of the macro-economic challenges currently affecting the economy of the United States and other parts of the world, including the European sovereign debt and economic crisis, the current economic climate is turbulent and volatile. Unfavorable economic conditions, such as higher unemployment rates, a constrained credit market, housing-related pressures, increased focus by businesses on reducing operating costs and lower spending by consumers can reduce expenditures on both leisure and business travel. For many travelers, air travel and spending on in-flight Internet access are discretionary purchases that they can quickly eliminate in difficult economic times. Additionally, a weaker business environment may lead to a decrease in overall business travel, which has historically been an important contributor to Row 44 and AIA service revenue. These conditions may make it more difficult or less likely for commercial airlines to justify the purchase of Row 44’s equipment or AIA’s services. If economic conditions in the United States or globally deteriorate further or do not improve, each of Row 44 and AIA may experience material adverse effects to its business, cash flow and results of operations. Risks Related to Row 44’s Business Row 44's independent auditors have issued a report questioning its ability to continue as a going concern. The report of Row 44's independent auditors contained in its financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 states that Row 44 has yet to establish an ongoing source of revenue sufficient to cover its operating costs and allow Row 44 to continue as a going concern. Row 44 expects that the report of Row 44’s independent auditors contained in its financials statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 will contain a similar statement. Following the consummation of the Business Combination, the Company has cash available to fund Row 44’s operations. However, if in the future Row 44 continues to generate operating losses and the cash available from the Company is insufficient or is not made available fund these losses, it may force Row 44 to delay its expansion into new territories and materially scale back operations. Such circumstances would materially and adversely affect Row 44's business, operations and prospects. Row 44 relies on one key customer for a substantial percentage of its revenue. Row 44’s business is substantially dependent on its customer relationship with Southwest Airlines, which accounted for 66% and virtually all of its revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2012, Row 44 estimates approximately 80% of its business was derived from Southwest Airlines. In addition, Row 44 and Southwest recently entered into an Amended and Restated Supply and Services Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2012, in which Row 44 is obligated, among other things, to deliver additional live television related hardware and services and comply with a modified customer experience metric for internet services. If Row 44 fails to meet its obligations to Southwest Airlines, Southwest Airlines may terminate Row 44’s newly launched television service on Southwest aircraft and/or its entire Agreement with Row 44. Row 44’s business would be materially adversely affected if Southwest terminates either the newly launched television service and/or the entire Agreement with Row 44. Row 44’s available satellite capacity and related bandwidth may not be able to accommodate the expected growth in demand for its in-flight broadband services. As Row 44’s in-flight system is installed in more airplanes in the US and around the world, its need and demand for satellite capacity will increase considerably. Row 44’s satellite space needs will grow even further as additional, bandwidth rich services flow through its connectivity system. The availability of satellite space could diminish as competitive broadband providers tap into the supply of available transponders. Additionally, Row 44 has not secured transponder space with respect to all of the geographic regions that its new commercial airline customers service. While additional satellite transponder capacity can be deployed with the launch of new satellites, the ability to deploy additional satellite capacity is dependent on many factors, including timing of launches, all of which are outside the control of Row 44. Greater demand for, and a scarce supply of, satellite transponders could result in a material increase in the operating expenses by Row 44, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, especially if Row 44 is unable to adjust the price of its equipment and services to offset any such increase in costs. Row 44 may not be able to grow its business with its current airline customers or successfully secure new airline customers in the future. Row 44 is currently in negotiations and discussions to provide its equipment to a number of commercial airlines around the world. Negotiations with potential airline customers require a substantial amount of time, energy and resources, and there can be no assurance that Row 44 will be successful. Row 44 may ultimately fail in entering into agreements with additional commercial airlines on competitive terms, and that failure could harm its results of operations due to a diversion of resources, the actual costs of pursuing these opportunities and the inability to deploy committed satellite transponder space segments to additional airlines. Additionally, the terms of any of Row 44’s future agreements with new airline customers may be less favorable than its current agreements. To the extent that Row 44 is unable to secure new airline customers or any of its agreements with new customers are not as favorable as Row 44’s existing arrangements, its growth and financial prospects would be materially and adversely affected. - 9 - Competition from a number of companies could result in price reduction, reduced revenue and a loss or market share, all of which could harm Row 44’s results of operations. Row 44 faces competition from land-based providers of broadband Wi-Fi services to commercial airlines and from other satellite-based broadband providers of Internet connectivity, live television and video on-demand services. Competition for such providers has affected Row 44’s business prospects and will continue to do so in the future, especially given the fact that there are a limited number of commercial airlines around the world. Some of Row 44’s competitors are larger, more diversified corporations with greater financial, marketing, production and research and development resources. As a result, these competitors may be better able to withstand the effects of periodic economic downturns, especially those that continue for a considerable period of time. Competition within the in-flight broadband Internet access and in-cabin entertainment markets may also subject Row 44 to downward pricing pressures on its product offerings. Competition will likely increase Row 44’s sales and marketing expenses and related customer acquisition costs. Row 44 may not have the liquidity, financial resources, technical expertise or marketing and support capabilities to compete successfully. Row 44’s failure to respond to established and new competitors could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Row 44’s business has a very limited operating history, which may make it difficult to evaluate its current business and predict its future performance. Row 44 did not complete the first installation of its connectivity system until 2009 and did not begin to generate revenue from operations until 2010. The limited operating history of Row 44’s business may make it difficult to accurately evaluate the potential growth and future performance, while the recent growth in system installation is not necessarily indicative of potential future growth. Any assessments of Row 44’s current business and predictions that it makes about future success or viability may not be as accurate. Row 44 has encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, and the size and nature of its market opportunity will change as it scales its business and increases deployment of the Row 44 system. Row 44 faces limitations on its ability to grow its domestic operations that could harm Row 44’s operating results and financial condition. Row 44’s ability to expand domestically at its current rate of growth is inherently limited by various factors, including limitations on the number of U.S. and foreign commercial airlines, the number of planes in which Row 44’s system can be installed, the passenger capacity within each plane and the ability of Row 44’s network infrastructure or bandwidth to accommodate increasing capacity demands. Row 44’s growth may slow to the extent that it has exhausted all potential airline customers and as it approaches installation on full fleets and maximum penetration rates on all flights. Row 44 cannot assure you that it will be able to profitably expand its existing market presence or establish new markets and, if it fails to do so, Row 44’s business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Row 44 may be unsuccessful in generating revenue from live television, portal and content-on-demand services. Row 44 is currently developing or scheduled to deploy a host of service offerings to deliver to its commercial airline customers via the Row 44 system. Row 44 only recently launched 8 channels of live television service in the United States. Row 44 plans to offer at least 15 channels of live television service in the United States and no assurance can be given that it will ultimately be able to launch any additional channels. Further, Row 44 has yet to offer live television in Europe and there can be no assurance that it will be successful in doing so or in generating meaningful revenue from that source of content abroad. Additionally, Row 44 intends to develop a substantial revenue stream from its portal business. Row 44 has only nominal revenue from the portal business today. If Row 44 is unable to generate increased revenue from live television or if its portal business does not ultimately develop, Row 44’s growth and financial prospects would be materially adversely impacted. - 10 - Row 44 also is working to increase the number of on-demand movies and television shows and a variety of other content available on its system. The future growth prospects for Row 44’s business depend, in part, on revenue from advertising fees and e-commerce revenue share arrangements on passenger purchases of goods and services, including video and media services. Row 44’s ability to generate revenue from these service offerings depends on: •growth of its commercial airline customer base; •the attractiveness of Row 44’s customer base to media partners; •rolling out live television and media on demand on more aircraft and with additional airline customers and increasing passenger adoption both in the US and abroad; •establishing and maintaining beneficial contractual relationships with media partners whose content, products and services are attractive to airline passengers; and •Row 44’s ability to customize and improve its service offerings in response to trends and customer interests. If Row 44 is unsuccessful in generating revenue from its service offerings, that failure could have a material adverse effect on its growth prospects. Row 44 may be unsuccessful in expanding its operations internationally, which could harm the growth of its business, operating results and financial conditions. Row 44’s ability to expand internationally involves various risks, including the need to invest significant resources in unfamiliar markets and the possibility that there may not be returns on these investments in the near future or at all. In addition, Row 44 has incurred and expects to continue to incur expenses before it generates any material revenue in these new markets. Expansion of international marketing and advertising efforts will lead to a significant increase in Row 44’s customer acquisition costs. Row 44’s ability to expand will also be limited by the demand for in-flight broadband Internet access in international markets. Different privacy, censorship, aerospace and liability standards and regulations and different intellectual property laws and enforcement practices in foreign countries may cause its business and operating results to suffer. Additionally, any failure to compete successfully in international markets will negatively impact Row 44’s reputation and domestic operations. Any future international operations may fail to succeed due to risks inherent in foreign operations, including: •different technological solutions for broadband Internet than those used in North America; •varied, unfamiliar and unclear legal and regulatory restrictions; •unexpected changes in international regulatory requirements and tariffs; •legal, political or systemic restrictions on the ability of U.S. companies to do business in foreign countries, including restrictions on foreign ownership of telecommunications providers; •inability to find content or service providers to partner with on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; •Foreign Corrupt Practices Act compliance and related risks; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •currency fluctuations; •potential adverse tax consequences; and •fewer transatlantic flights due to continuing economic turmoil in Europe. As a result of these obstacles, Row 44 may find it difficult or prohibitively expensive to grow its business internationally or it may be unsuccessful in its attempt to do so, which could harm row 44’s future operating results and financial condition. - 11 - Risks Related to Row 44’s Technology, Intellectual Property and Government Regulation Row 44 could be adversely affected if it suffers service interruptions or delays, technology failures or damage to its equipment. Row 44’s reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve its commercial airline customers depend upon the reliable performance of its satellite transponder capacity, network infrastructure and connectivity system. Row 44 has experienced interruptions in these systems in the past, including component and service failures that temporarily disrupted users’ access to the Internet, and Row 44 may experience service interruptions, service delays or technology or systems failures in the future, which may be due to factors beyond its control. If Row 44 experiences frequent system or network failures, its reputation could be harmed and its airline customers may have the right to terminate their contracts with Row 44 or pursue other remedies. Row 44’s operations and services depend upon the extent to which its equipment and the equipment of its third-party network providers is protected against damage from fire, flood, earthquakes, power loss, solar flares, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, break-ins, acts of war or terrorism and similar events. Damage to the Row 44 networks could cause interruptions in the services that it provides, which could have a material adverse effect on service revenue, Row 44’s reputation and its ability to attract or retain customers. Row 44 relies on single service providers for certain critical components of and services relating to its satellite connectivity network. Row 44 currently sources key components of its hardware, including the aircraft installed satellite antenna sourced from TECOM Industries, Inc., and key aspects of its connectivity services, including all of its satellite transponder services from Hughes Network Systems, LLC, from sole providers of equipment and network services, respectively. While Row 44 has written contracts with these key component and service providers, if Row 44 experiences a disruption in the delivery of products and services from either of these providers, it may be difficult for Row 44 to continue providing its own products and services to its customers. Row 44 has experienced component delivery issues in the past and there can be no assurance that it will avoid similar issues in the future. Additionally, the loss of the exclusive source protections that Row 44 has with its hardware provider could eliminate Row 44’s competitive advantage in the use of satellites for in-flight connectivity, which could have a material adverse effect on Row 44’s business and operations. Assertions by third parties of infringement, misappropriation or other violation by Row 44 of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm its business and operating results. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including the wireless communications industry. Any infringement, misappropriation or related claims, whether or not meritorious, is time-consuming, diverts technical and management personnel and is costly to resolve. As a result of any such dispute, Row 44 may have to develop non-infringing technology, pay damages, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, cease providing certain products or services or take other actions to resolve the claims. These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to Row 44. Certain of Row 44’s suppliers do not provide indemnity to Row 44 for the use of the products and services that these providers supply to Row 44. At the same time, Row 44 generally offers third party intellectual property infringement indemnity to its customers which, in some cases, do not cap Row 44’s indemnity obligations and thus could render it liable for both defense costs and any judgments. Any of these events could result in increases in operating expenses, limit Row 44’s service offerings or result in a loss of business if it is unable to meet its indemnification obligations and its airline customers terminate or fail to renew their contracts. On December 28, 2012, Advanced Media Networks, L.L.C. filed suit in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against Row 44 and one of its customers that Row 44 has agreed to indemnify for allegedly infringing two of Advanced Media’s patents and seeking injunctive relief and unspecified monetary damages. Both of the patents in question are being reexamined by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office. Based on currently available information, Row 44 believes that it has strong defenses and intends to defend vigorously against this lawsuit, but the outcome of this matter is inherently uncertain and could have a materially adverse effect on Row 44’s business, financial condition and results of operations. - 12 - Row 44 may not be able to protect its intellectual property rights. Row 44 regards its trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, domain names and similar intellectual property as important to its success. Row 44 relies on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with its employees, vendors, airline customers, customers and others to protect its proprietary rights. Row 44 has sought and obtained patent protection for certain of its technologies in the United States and certain other countries. Many of the trademarks that Row 44 uses contain words or terms having a somewhat common usage, such as “broadband” and, as a result, it may have difficulty registering them in certain jurisdictions. Row 44 has not yet obtained registrations for its most important marks in all markets in which it may do business in the future, including countries in Asia, Africa and the Middle East. If other companies have registered or have been using in commerce similar trademarks for services similar to Row 44’s in foreign jurisdictions, it may have difficulty in registering, or enforcing an exclusive right to use, its marks in those foreign jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that the efforts Row 44 has taken to protect its proprietary rights will be sufficient or effective, that any pending or future patent and trademark applications will lead to issued patents and registered trademarks in all instances, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior technologies, products or services, or that its patents, trademarks and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, misappropriated or infringed by others. Additionally, the intellectual property laws and enforcement practices of other countries in which Row 44’s service is or may in the future be offered may not protect its products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If Row 44 is unable to protect its intellectual property from unauthorized use, its brand image may be harmed and its business and results of operations may suffer. Row 44’s use of open source software could limit its ability to commercialize its technology. Open source software is software made widely and freely available to the public in human-readable source code form, usually with liberal rights to modify and improve such software. Some open source licenses require as a condition of use that proprietary software that is combined with licensed open source software and distributed must be released to the public in source code form and under the terms of the open source license. Accordingly, depending on the manner in which such licenses were interpreted and applied, Row 44 could face restrictions on its ability to commercialize certain of its products and it could be required to (i) release the source code of certain of its proprietary software to the public, including to competitors; (ii) seek licenses from third parties for replacement software; and/or (iii) re-engineer its software in order to continue offering its products. Such consequences could materially adversely affect its business. The failure of Row 44’s equipment or material defects or errors in its software may damage its reputation, result in claims against Row 44 that exceed its insurance coverage, thereby requiring it to pay significant damages and impair its ability to sell its service. Row 44’s products contain complex systems and components that could contain errors or defects, particularly when it incorporates new technology. If any of its products are defective, Row 44 could be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such events could result in significant expenses, disrupt sales and affect its reputation and that of its products. If Row 44’s on-board equipment has a severe malfunction, or there is a problem with the equipment installation, which damages an airplane or impairs its on-board electronics or avionics, significant property loss and serious personal injury or death could result. Any such failure could expose Row 44 to substantial product liability claims or costly repair obligations. In particular, the passenger jets operated by its airline customers are very costly to repair and therefore the damages in any product liability claims could be material. Row 44 carries aircraft and non-aircraft product liability insurance consistent with industry norms. However, this insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover the payment of any claims. A product recall or a product liability claim not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, Row 44 indemnifies most of its airline customers for losses due to third-party claims and in certain cases the causes for such losses may include failure of its products. The software underlying its services is inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when the software is first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Row 44 has from time to time found defects or errors in its software, and defects or errors in its existing software may be detected in the future. Any defects or errors that cause interruptions to the availability of its services could result in: •termination or failure to renew contracts by its airline customers; •a reduction in sales or delay in market acceptance of its service; •sales credits or refunds to its customers and airline customers; •loss of existing customers and difficulty in attracting new customers; - 13 - •diversion of development resources; •harm to its reputation and brand image; •increased insurance costs; and •claims for substantial damages. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in Row 44’s software may be substantial and could harm its results of operations. Regulation by United States and foreign government agencies, such as the FAA, which regulates the civil aviation manufacturing and repair industries in the United States, and the FCC, which regulates the US telecommunications industry, may increase Row 44 costs of providing service or require it to change its services. Row 44 is subject to various governmental regulations, including those regulations promulgated by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies and comparable agencies outside the United States where it does, or in the future may do, business. The U.S. government agency that has primary regulatory authority over Row 44’s operations is the FAA. The commercial and private aviation industries, including civil aviation manufacturing and repair industries, are highly regulated by the FAA in the United States. FAA certification is required for all equipment that Row 44 installs on commercial aircraft, and certain of its operating activities require that it obtain FAA certification as a parts manufacturer. FAA approvals required to operate its business include Supplemental Type Certificates (STCs) and Parts Manufacturing Authority (PMAs). Obtaining STCs and PMAs is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant focus and resources. Any inability to obtain, delay in obtaining, or change in, needed FAA certifications, authorizations, or approvals, could have an adverse effect on Row 44’s ability to meet its installation commitments, manufacture and sell parts for installation on aircraft, or expand its business and could, therefore, materially adversely affect Row 44’s growth prospects, business and operating results. The FAA closely regulates many of Row 44’s operations. If it fails to comply with the FAA’s many regulations and standards that apply to its activities, Row 44 could lose the FAA certifications, authorizations or other approvals on which its manufacturing, installation, maintenance, preventive maintenance and alteration capabilities are based. In addition, from time to time, the FAA or comparable foreign agencies adopt new regulations or amend existing regulations. The FAA could also change its policies regarding the delegation of inspection and certification responsibilities to private companies, which could adversely affect Row 44’s business. To the extent that any such new regulations or amendments to existing regulations or policies apply to its activities, those new regulations or amendments to existing regulations generally increase Row 44’s costs of compliance. As a broadband Internet provider, Row 44 must comply with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act of 1994, or CALEA, and similar laws in other countries, which requires communications carriers to ensure that their equipment, facilities and services can accommodate certain technical capabilities in executing authorized wiretapping and other electronic surveillance. Currently, Row 44’s CALEA solutions are deployed in its US network and Western European network though it could be subject to an enforcement action by the FCC, other telecommunications regulators or law enforcement agencies for any delays related to meeting any current or future CALEA or similarly mandated law enforcement related obligations. Such enforcement actions could subject Row 44 to fines, cease and desist orders or other penalties, all of which could adversely affect its business. Further, to the extent the FCC adopts additional capability requirements applicable to broadband Internet providers, its decision may increase the costs Row 44 incur to comply with such regulations. Adverse decisions or regulations of these regulatory bodies could negatively impact Row 44’s operations and costs of doing business. Row 44 is unable to predict the scope, pace or financial impact of regulations and other policy changes that could be adopted by the various governmental entities that oversee portions of its business. - 14 - If government regulation of the Internet, including e-commerce or online video distribution, changes, Row 44 may need to change the way it conducts its business to a manner that incurs greater operating expenses, which could harm its results of operations. The current legal environment for Internet communications, products and services is uncertain and subject to statutory, regulatory or interpretive change. Certain laws and regulations applicable to Row 44’s business were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and often do not contemplate or address specific issues associated with those technologies. Row 44 cannot be certain that it, its vendors and media partners or its customers are currently in compliance with applicable regulatory or other legal requirements in the countries in which its service is used. Row 44’s failure, or the failure of its vendors and media partners, customers and others with whom Row 44 transacts business to comply with existing or future legal or regulatory requirements could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulators may disagree with its interpretations of existing laws or regulations or the applicability of existing laws or regulations to its business, and existing laws, regulations and interpretations may change in unexpected ways. For example, the FCC recently adopted regulations regarding net neutrality that, in certain situations, limit mobile broadband providers to “network management” techniques that are reasonable. Although these rules are currently being challenged in Federal court, future guidance or precedent from the FCC regarding the interpretation of what techniques are considered “reasonable” could adversely impact Row 44’s ability to monitor and manage the network to optimize its users’ Internet experience. Row 44 cannot be certain what positions regulators may take regarding its compliance with, or lack of compliance with, current and future legal and regulatory requirements or what positions regulators may take regarding any past or future actions that Row 44 has taken or may take in any jurisdiction. Regulators may determine that Row 44 is not in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and impose penalties, or it may need to make changes to the Row 44 system, which could be costly and difficult. Any of these events would adversely affect its operating results and business. Risks Related to Row 44’s Operating History and Industry If Row 44’s efforts to retain and attract customers are not successful, its revenue will be adversely affected. Row 44 currently generates all of its revenue from sales of its equipment and from the delivery of broadband related services across its system. If Row 44’s airline customers do not view its equipment as high-quality or cost-effective or if its equipment does not keep pace with innovation, its current and potential customers may choose to do business with its competitors. If Row 44 is unable to effectively attract new and repeat customers, its business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Unreliable service levels, uncompetitive pricing, lack of availability, security risk and lack of related features of its equipment and services are some of the factors that may adversely impact its ability to retain existing customers and partners and attract new and repeat customers. If consumers are able to satisfy their in-flight entertainment needs through activities other than broadband Internet access, at no or lower cost, they may not perceive value in Row 44’s products and services. The demand for in-flight broadband Internet access and related services may decrease or develop more slowly than expected. Row 44 cannot predict with certainty the development of the U.S. or international in-flight broadband Internet access market or the market acceptance for its products and services. Row 44’s future success depends upon growing demand for in-flight broadband Internet access and related services, which is inherently uncertain. Row 44 has invested significant resources towards the roll-out of new service offerings, which represent a substantial part of its growth strategy. It faces the risk that the U.S. and international markets for in-flight broadband Internet access and related services may decrease or develop more slowly or differently than currently expected, or that its services may not achieve widespread market acceptance. Row 44 may be unable to market and sell its services successfully and cost-effectively to a sufficiently large number of customers. Row 44’s business depends on the continued proliferation of Wi-Fi as a standard feature in mobile devices. The growth in demand for in-flight broadband Internet access and related services also depends in part on the continued and increased use of laptops, smartphones, tablet computers and other Wi-Fi enabled devices and the rate of evolution of data-intensive applications on the mobile Internet. If Wi-Fi ceases to be a standard feature in mobile devices, if the rate of integration of Wi-Fi on mobile devices decreases or is slower than expected, or if the use of Wi-Fi enabled devices or development of related applications decreases or grows more slowly than anticipated, the market for its services may be substantially diminished. Row 44 has incurred operating losses since inception. Row 44 has incurred operating losses in every quarter since its inception in 2004, and it may not be able to generate sufficient revenue in the future to generate operating income or positive cash flow. Row 44 also expects its costs to increase materially in future periods, which could negatively affect its future operating results. Row 44 expects to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources as it expands internationally. The amount and timing of these costs are subject to numerous variables. Such variables include the availability and timing of certain next-generation technologies, such as Ka-band and other satellite technology, as well as costs incurred to develop and implement changes to airborne software and hardware and, with respect to satellite technologies, the cost of obtaining satellite capacity. - 15 - Increased costs and other demands associated with Row 44’s growth could impact its ability to achieve profitability over the long term and could strain its personnel, technology and infrastructure resources. Row 44 expects its costs to increase in future periods, which could negatively affect its future operating results. Anticipated future growth, including growth related to the broadening of its service offerings and international expansion of its business, will require the outlay of significant operating and capital expenditures and will continue to place strains on Row 44’s personnel, technology and infrastructure. Its success will depend in part upon its ability to contain costs with respect to growth opportunities. To successfully manage the expected growth of its operations, including its network, on a timely and cost-effective basis Row 44 will need to continue to improve its operational, financial, technological and management controls and its reporting systems and procedures. In addition, as it continues to grow, Row 44 must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, and it must maintain the beneficial aspects of its corporate culture. If Row 44 fails to successfully manage its growth, it could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Row 44 depends upon third parties to manufacture equipment components and to provide services for its network. Row 44 relies on third-party suppliers for equipment components that it uses to provide satellite telecommunication Wi-Fi services. The supply of third party components could be interrupted or halted by a termination of its relationships, a failure of quality control or other operational problems at such suppliers or a significant decline in their financial condition. If Row 44 is not able to continue to engage suppliers with the capabilities or capacities required by its business, or if such suppliers fail to deliver quality products, parts, equipment and services on a timely basis consistent with its schedule, its business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Row 44 may fail to recruit, train and retain the highly skilled employees that are necessary to remain competitive and execute its growth strategy. The loss of one or more of its key personnel could harm its business. Competition for key technical personnel in high-technology industries is intense. Row 44 believes that its future success depends in large part on its continued ability to hire, train, retain and leverage the skills of qualified engineers and other highly skilled personnel needed to maintain and grow its satellite based broadband connectivity network. Row 44 may not be as successful as its competitors at recruiting, training, retaining and utilizing these highly skilled personnel. In particular, it may have more difficulty attracting or retaining highly skilled personnel during periods of poor operating performance. Any failure to recruit, train and retain highly skilled employees could negatively impact its business and results of operations. Row 44 depends on the continued service and performance of its key personnel. Such individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Row 44 and its operations. As a result, if any of these individuals were to leave Row 44, it could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss of productivity while any such successor obtains the necessary training and expertise. Row 44 does not maintain key man insurance on any of its officers or key employees. In addition, much of its key technology and systems are custom-made for its business by its personnel. The loss of key personnel, including key members of its management team, as well as certain of its key marketing or technology personnel, could disrupt its operations and have an adverse effect on its ability to grow its business. Risks Related to AIA’s Business Increased competition in the in-flight entertainment industry may harm AIA’s business. In-flight entertainment is undergoing a sea change driven first and foremost by technical innovations. Recent years saw the emergence of numerous new vendors with new technologies and new approaches, especially for the hardware systems that are built into aircraft. Increasingly, carriers are also investigating the use of systems that are not permanently installed. This would require passengers to dial into the in-flight entertainment system using either their own mobile devices or those made available to them. More and more carriers also offer passengers in-flight access to the Internet. It is impossible to say at this time which of these new technologies and approaches will gain a foothold in the market in the long term. As a content service provider, AIA’s services are contingent on the technological components used in aircraft because it is these components that define the parameters for both the content and the solutions that can be used in in-flight entertainment. Over time, this will impose new technical requirements on AIA. In turn, this will entail opportunities (e.g., an expansion of AIA’s own services portfolio thanks to broadened options for using the new systems) as well as risks (e.g., lowered technical barriers to market entry for competitors). - 16 - AIA may not be able to grow its business with its current airline customers or successfully secure new airline customers in the future. AIA is constantly in negotiations and discussions with existing airline customers and potential new airline customers around the world to either maintain or expand an existing contract or win a new contract. Negotiations with airline customers require a substantial amount of time, energy and resources, and there can be no assurance that AIA will be successful in maintaining existing customers or winning new customers. Additionally, the terms of any of AIA’s future agreements with existing or new airline customers may be less favorable than its current agreements. To the extent that AIA is unable to secure existing airline customers or new airline customers or any of its future agreements with existing or new customers are not as favorable as AIA’s existing arrangements, its growth and profitability prospects could be materially and adversely affected. AIA’s business based on applications as part of the in-flight entertainment has a limited operating history, which may make it difficult to evaluate its current business and predict its future performance. In 2008 AIA started to develop applications to be used on more sophisticated in-flight entertainment hardware platforms. Therefore AIA’s application business is still in a ramp up phase and has limited operating history. This makes it difficult for AIA to accurately evaluate the potential growth and future performance of the application business. Any assessments of AIA’s application business and predictions that it makes about future success or viability may not be accurate. In this application business, AIA has encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies expanding in new business areas in rapidly changing industries, and the size and nature of its market opportunity will change as it scales its application business. AIA’s future financial performance is dependent on its acquisitions of new companies. As a holding company, AIA’s growth both in revenues and profits in the past has been dependent on the ability to execute acquisitions of companies inside or outside its core industry. There can be no assurance that AIA will be successful with respect to such acquisitions, or that these acquisitions will have positive impacts on revenues or profits of AIA. The demand for in-flight entertainment and related services may decrease or develop more slowly than expected. AIA’s future success depends upon growing demand for in-flight entertainment and related services, which is inherently uncertain. AIA has invested and will invest resources towards the development and roll-out of new content and service offerings, which represent part of its growth strategy. It faces the risk that markets for in-flight entertainment and related services may decrease or develop more slowly or differently than currently expected. AIA may be unable to market and sell its services successfully and cost-effectively to a sufficiently large number of customers. Increased costs and other demands associated with AIA’s growth could impact its profitability over the long term and could strain its personnel, technology and infrastructure resources. If AIA’s costs for providing its services increase in future periods, it could negatively affect its future operating results. Anticipated future growth, including growth related to the broadening of its service offerings and its expansion into other markets, could require the outlay of significant operating and capital expenditures and could place strains on AIA’s personnel, technology and infrastructure. AIA’s success will depend in part upon its ability to contain costs with respect to growth opportunities. To successfully manage the expected growth of its operations in a timely and cost-effective basis, AIA will need to continue to improve its operational, financial, technological and management controls and its reporting systems and procedures. In addition, as it continues to grow, AIA must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, and it must maintain the beneficial aspects of its corporate culture. If AIA fails to successfully manage its growth, it could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. - 17 - AIA may fail to recruit, train and retain the skilled employees that are necessary to remain competitive and execute its growth strategy, and may encounter significant challenges due to its widespread international locations. Competition for key personnel in the service industry is intense. AIA believes that its future success depends in large part on its continued ability to hire, train, retain and leverage the skills of qualified and motivated personnel needed to maintain and grow its business. AIA may not be as successful as its competitors at recruiting, training, retaining and utilizing these personnel. In particular, it may have more difficulty attracting or retaining highly skilled personnel during periods of poor operating performance. In addition, because of its widespread geographical locations, AIA has a risk of migration of employees and poor retention rate. AIA may also encounter challenges in complying with foreign employment laws and regulations in its many international locations. Any failure to recruit, train and retain highly skilled employees or any failure to comply with applicable foreign employment laws and regulations could negatively impact its business and results of operations. AIA may not predict accurately its profit margins with respect to its long term fixed price contracts. Aside from centralizing license procurement for the in-flight entertainment segment to a greater extent, in some cases AIA also closes multi-year, fixed-price delivery contracts with producers. These procurement contracts enable AIA to purchase all of the movies that a given studio releases or markets during the term of the contract at a fixed purchase price, or “flat deals”. Adjustments of the previously agreed upon purchase price might be necessary in certain circumstances if there are major changes in the customer base of AIA during the term of a given contract. Although such flat deals are based on diligently researched decision-making parameters and also offer a certain degree of flexibility, there is the risk that the profit margins on AIA’s flat fee agreements may be smaller than predicted or even a loss, which could negatively impact AIA’s financial condition and results of operations. AIA may not choose the most profitable content to market. AIA’s recent acquisition of two companies, EIM and Emphasis, has substantially strengthened its positioning in the strategically important business of marketing content for the inflight entertainment market. Selecting the films to be bought is key to the success of the business model of both EIM and Emphasis. These two companies will only generate profits if they succeed in buying the marketing licenses to movies for which there is sufficient demand. There is the risk, however, if the movies acquired for marketing purposes are not sold to customers in sufficient numbers, that the costs incurred in connection with the marketing of the film licenses will not be covered at all or only in part by corresponding sales revenue, in turn potentially impacting the earnings of AIA. Technological advances may harm AIA’s business. Due to the widening use of state-of-the-art, personal electronic devices such as Apple’s iPad, ever-increasing numbers of passengers have their own mobile devices, which they might use to bring their own content such as movies, music or games with them on a flight. This could decrease demand for AIA’s in-flight offerings. Carriers now also have greater technical means at their disposal to offer passengers inflight access to the Internet, including through the offerings of Row 44 and its competitors. At present, these offerings do not allow passengers to fully stream content on their mobile devices. If, however, in-flight Internet access in the future allows passengers to fully stream content on their mobile devices, this could decrease demand for AIA’s in-flight offerings. While both trends will give rise to risks as well as opportunities for AIA, it is impossible to foresee at present whether and, if so, to what extent these trends will have lasting effects. Note, too, that the in-flight entertainment systems currently in place are unable to support these developments. Given average useful lives of 15 to 20 years, the conventional systems will continue to dominate the in-flight entertainment industry for the foreseeable future. As a result, possible changes will happen slowly, giving all market players sufficient time to adapt. If AIA fails to expand its customers’ use of its products, AIA’s ability to execute its growth strategy and increase its revenue will be limited. Many of AIA’s customers initially make a purchase of only one or a limited number of AIA’s available products or use AIA’s products for a limited period of time. AIA’s ability to grow its business and increase revenue is dependent on its ability to further penetrate its existing customers by selling additional products to them, and by increasing the number of products for customers (existing and potential) to choose from. If AIA fails to expand the usage of its products by its existing customers, or fails to attract new customers, AIA’s ability to execute its growth strategy and increase its revenue will be limited. - 18 - Many of AIA’s products will have long sales cycles, which may cause AIA to expend resources without an acceptable financial return and which makes it difficult to plan its expenses and forecast its revenues which could have a materially adverse affect on its business. Many of AIA’s products have long sales cycles that involve numerous steps, including initial customer contacts, specification writing, software engineering design, software prototyping, pilot testing, device certification, regulatory approvals (if needed), sales and marketing and commercial manufacture, integration and delivery. During this time, AIA may expend substantial financial resources and management time and effort without any assurance that product sales will result. The anticipated long sales cycle for some of its products makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales may occur. Delays in sales may cause AIA to expend resources without an acceptable financial return and make it difficult to plan expenses and forecast revenues which could have a materially adverse effect on its business. AIA may not retain or attract customers if it does not develop new products and enhance its current products in response to technological changes and competing products. The in-flight entertainment market is faced with rapid technological change, evolving standards in computer hardware, software development, communications and security infrastructure, and changing needs and expectations of customers. Building new products and service offerings requires significant investment in development. A substantial portion of AIA’s research and development resources are devoted to maintenance requirements and product upgrades that address new technology support. These demands put significant constraints on AIA’s resources available for new product development. AIA also faces uncertainty when it develops or acquires new products because there is no assurance that a sufficient market will develop for those products. AIA is exposed to foreign currency risks and AIA’s hedging activities could create losses. Within AIA, currency risks essentially arise from the fact that both sales to customers and purchasing are largely effected in US dollars while most of its operating companies’ fixed costs are incurred in euros, British pounds and Canadian dollars. If necessary, AIA engages in hedging transactions to counteract direct currency risks. However, AIA cannot always guarantee that all currency risks have been hedged in full. Severe currency fluctuations could also cause the hedging transactions to fail if agreed thresholds (triggers) are not met or exceeded. AIA therefore cannot fully preclude negative foreign currency effects in the future — some of which might be substantial — due to unforeseen exchange rate fluctuations and/or inaccurate assessments of market developments. At this time, AIA rarely resorts to hedges because of the still rudimentary nature of the system-based data that is available to it for foreign currency management as well as highly volatile foreign exchange rates. But it is also rooted in the fact that the general trend toward a strengthening of the US dollar relative to the euro is advantageous to AIA’s specific foreign currency concerns. AIA continuously monitors all foreign exchange rates relevant to AIA in order to be able to initiate appropriate hedging activities immediately if the current market situation were to change. There are also intragroup receivables and liabilities in the AIA group of companies such as loans that can generate significant foreign currency effects. Changes in the exchange rates of a number of foreign currencies against the euro, especially the US dollar and the Canadian dollar, could lead to the recognition of unrealized foreign exchange losses in some cases, particularly as a result of intragroup transactions. Therefore, the AIA group is exposed to a heightened currency risk in connection with intragroup borrowing owing to the foreign currency sensitivity in severe and unforeseeable exchange rate movements that are consequently difficult to predict. Steps were taken by AIA as early as in 2010, as well as in 2011, to bring about a further sustained reduction in intragroup receivables and liabilities. AIA faces intense pricing pressure which may have a material negative effect on its financial condition and results of operations. A number of invitations to tender in 2011 by both new and current customers have shown that the price pressures from ever-increasing cost pressures in the aviation industry have further intensified. AIA expects its risk of having to grant some major concessions in connection with tenders in order to acquire new customers or keep current customers to increase against this backdrop. In turn, this may have corresponding effects on AIA’s sales and earnings. - 19 - AIA continues to respond to this scenario by broadening its offerings through additional services; making integrated offers that cover the entire range of AIA’s services; adjusting the composition of the content offered; and optimizing its procurement strategy. Furthermore, AIA will initiate additional structural and cost-cutting measures in the coming months with the aim of improving its cost structure and thus counteracting the increased price pressure. While these actions could adversely affect AIA’s earnings in the short term, they serve to stabilize and improve the profitability of AIA in the medium and long term. AIA sources its content from studios, distributors and other content providers, and any reduction in the volume of content produced by such content providers could hurt AIA’s business by providing it with less quality content to choose from and resulting in potentially less attractive offerings for passengers. AIA receives content from studios, distributors and other content providers, and in some circumstances, AIA depends on the volume and quality of the content that these content providers produce. If studios, distributors or other content providers were to reduce the volume or quality of content they make available to AIA over any given time period, whether because of their own financial limitations or other factors influencing their businesses, AIA would have less quality content to choose from and AIA’s programmers would have more difficulty finding relevant and appropriate content to provide to AIA’s customers. This could negatively impact the passenger experience, which could in turn reduce the demand for AIA’s offerings, which would have a negative impact on AIA’s revenue and results of operations. Certain of AIA’s largest contracts for its CSP business are up for renewal in 2013, and AIA may not be successful in renewing such contracts on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which would negatively impact AIA’s operating results. Certain of AIA’s largest contracts for its Content Service Providing, or CSP, business, are up for renewal in 2013. AIA may not be successful in renewing these contracts on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If AIA is unable to renew these contracts, or if AIA renews these contracts on substantially less favorable terms, AIA will need to find new sources of revenue from other customers or in other product offerings in order to maintain results of operations at current levels. Any attempted transition to new sources of revenue could take time, involve increased expenses, and negatively impact AIA’s results of operations and profitability, on a temporary or permanent basis. AIA’s revenue may be adversely affected by a reduction or elimination of the time between AIA’s receipt of content and the content being made more broadly publicly available to the rental or home viewing market. AIA receives its content directly from studios, distributors and other content providers, and the timing is at the discretion of the content providers. Historically, AIA has received content prior to such content being more broadly publicly distributed via rental viewing, retail stores or Internet streaming services. AIA believes that this “early window” has yielded a competitive advantage to AIA, as passengers have access to its content prior to being able to rent, purchase or otherwise access such content for home viewing. The early availability of this content is a strong differentiator for AIA’s business and AIA believes it allows for an enhanced passenger experience. If a content provider delays release of a certain content to AIA in a manner reducing or eliminating AIA’s “early window”, AIA may not be able to generate as much revenue from such content as AIA could have with an earlier release date. AIA is subject to ongoing tax audits which could result in additional taxes or a reduction in tax loss carryforwards. A comprehensive tax audit of the AIA group of companies domiciled in Germany for 2006 through 2009 began in the 2011 financial year and is ongoing. The audit had not yet been completed at the time the 2011 annual financial statements were prepared. Even though AIA believes that all transactions relevant to taxes have been duly presented in its tax returns for the given years, AIA cannot preclude with certainty that the comprehensive tax audit will not lead to objections to the tax returns and consequent tax risks from demands for additional taxes and that its tax loss carryforwards might be cut. Also, a comprehensive tax audit of AIA Canadian subsidiary DTI Software for 2009, 2010 and 2011 is underway. In addition, DTI is claiming tax credit in the course of the development of games and applications in Canada (tax credits that support multimedia, e-commerce and research and development in Canada). Although AIA is using tax credit consultants for calculating the effective amount that it can claim in tax credits, AIA always has a certain level of risk that the tax authorities might come to a different conclusion concerning the respective amount. This would lead to an adjustment of the booked tax credits. - 20 - The intensity and volume of both intragroup and transnational transactions have risen because collaboration among individual AIA group companies has increased. In AIA's view, the structure of these transactions — and, in particular, the determination of intragroup pricing — have been in compliance with all tax rules and regulations. AIA cannot preclude, however, that national and international tax authorities performing comprehensive corporate tax audits might not concur with AIA's tax assessment of certain transactions and thus might issue demands for additional taxes. The same applies to AIA AG's pass-through costs that it allocates to its subsidiaries in connection with the services it renders for them. The AIA group is active with numerous subsidiaries in several countries worldwide. Proactive management of the group's corporate tax structure entails availing itself of tax optimization features internationally as well. All of its actions in this regard take existing tax requirements into account. Nonetheless, AIA cannot say with any certainty that national and international tax authorities will concur with AIA's tax assessment of certain transactions and that this might have negative tax effects. AIA currently benefits from investment tax credits that are available in Canada to support multimedia, e-commerce and research and development in Canada, and any reduction in or elimination of government support for such tax credits would negatively impact AIA’s business and results of operations. AIA’s Canadian subsidiary, DTI Software, makes claims for currently available tax credits in Canada in the course of its development of games and applications in Canada, including tax credits that support multimedia, e-commerce and research and development in Canada. If governmental authorities in Canada, and in particular in the province of Quebec, were to reduce or eliminate the amount of tax credits that are available in respect of these activities by DTI, then AIA’s tax liabilities would likely increase and this would have a negative impact on AIA’s overall profitability. AIA’s revenue may be adversely affected by a reduction or elimination of use of its services by competitors in the marketplace. A portion of AIA’s income is currently generated by the licensing of software and content and by the performance of content processing services for direct competitors, including CSPs, of AIA. If AIA’s competitors develop their own software and content acquisition and processing capabilities, AIA’s business may be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to the Combined Company If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired and the market price of our securities may be negatively affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal control. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis. We also are required to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to prepare and furnish such a report. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012, management discovered that the Company had improperly accounted for its warrants as components of equity instead of as derivative liabilities, and our management and auditors determined that this resulted from a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. This material weakness led to the need for the restatement of our financial statements for the period from February 2, 2011 (date of inception) to December 31, 2011 and the quarterly periods ended June 30, and September 30, 2011 and 2012 and March 31, 2012. All of such periods occurred while the Company was a shell company prior to the consummation of the Business Combination. In connection with the consummation of the Business Combination, a new board of directors was elected, which appointed new members of the Company’s audit committee and new members of management, including a new chief financial officer. The Company’s new management is currently implementing measures to remediate this material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to produce timely and accurate financial statements. If that were to happen, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our securities could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Row 44’s management and auditors have identified a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting that, if not properly remediated, could impair our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis and result in a decline in the market price of our securities. As a privately-held company prior to the Business Combination, Row 44 was not required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As such, Row 44 did not make an assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting nor did it engage its auditors to express, nor have its auditors expressed, an opinion on the effectiveness of Row 44’s internal controls over financial reporting. In connection with the audit of Row 44’s financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012, Row 44’s auditors informed Row 44 that they had identified a material weakness in Row 44’s internal control over financial reporting related to inadequate segregation of duties within the accounting and financial reporting functions and limited accounting staffing sufficient to perform adequate review functions. - 21 - The primary factors contributing to the material weakness in financial statement close process of Row 44 were: • Inadequate segregation of duties over various accounting and financial reporting functions. • Schedules prepared by Row 44’s Director-Finance are not reviewed for accuracy, thereby allowing for the possibility that undetected errors will be reflected in the financial statements. We have begun taking measures and plans to take additional measures to remediate the underlying causes of the material weakness, primarily through the development and implementation of formal policies, improved processes, improved systems and documented procedures, as well as hiring of additional finance personnel. We plan to complete this remediation process as quickly as possible. However, we cannot at this time estimate how long it will take or if we can successfully remediate the material weakness. If we are unable to successfully remediate this material weakness, we may not be able to produce timely and accurate financial statements, and we may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. If that were to happen, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our securities could decline. AIA’s auditors identified material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting that, if not properly remediated, could impair our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis and result in a decline in the market price of our securities. In the course of auditing the financial statements of AIA for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, AIA’s independent auditors considered AIA’s internal control over financial reporting and identified a deficiency that it concluded represented a material weakness. AIA’s independent auditors identified the same deficiency plus an additional deficiency in the course of auditing the financial statements of AIA for the year ended December 31, 2012. AIA prepared its consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2009 in conformity with IFRS EU. Those financial statements, for purposes of the Business Combination, include reconciliation from IFRS EU to U.S. GAAP in accordance with Item 18 of Form 20-F. U.S. GAAP varies in certain respects from IFRS EU and AIA’s management does not have sufficient personnel with training and experience in reporting under U.S. GAAP to ensure the reconciliations are prepared appropriately. Therefore, AIA hired third party consultants to assist AIA with evaluating and calculating the differences between IFRS EU and U.S. GAAP, as well as preparing the required disclosures included in the U.S. GAAP reconciliations in AIA’s annual and interim financial statements. In addition, in the course of auditing the financial statements of AIA for the year ended December 31, 2012, AIA’s independent auditors concluded that the operating effectiveness of controls over certain subsidiaries’ IFRS financial statement close process was ineffective. Based on AIA’s independent auditor’s audit procedures, AIA’s financial statement close process and related review controls lacked processes to accurately record and review period end journal entries on certain subsidiaries. Due to the six week reduction in the closing timetable compared to the prior year, there were certain subsidiaries where year-end financial statement close process was not adequate in preventing or detecting certain errors. Such errors include the recording of accrued expenses identified across several accrual balances including, but not limited to expense and accruals for payroll, vacation, royalties, income tax, salaries, and amortization expense. AIA has began taking measures and plans to take additional measures to remediate these deficiencies, which may include either hiring appropriate personnel or utilizing the personnel that are available through the Company. If AIA is not able to remediate these deficiencies, we may not be able to produce timely and accurate financial statements. If that were to happen, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our securities could decline. - 22 - Our due diligence may not have revealed all materials issues that may be present in Row 44’s and AIA’s respective businesses Although we conducted due diligence on Row 44 and AIA, we cannot assure you that this diligence revealed all material issues that may be present in Row 44’s and AIA’s respective businesses, that it would be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary amount of due diligence, or that factors outside of our, Row 44’s and AIA’s control will not later arise. As a result, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure the operations or either or both of Row 44 and AIA, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in losses. In addition, unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to be unable to obtain future financing on favorable terms or at all. Concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. As of the consummation of the Business Combination, PAR owned approximately 53%, former Row 44 equity holders other than PAR and AIA owned 19%, and our founders owned 8% of the issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock. These percentages exclude approximately 3.0 million shares of our capital stock issued pursuant to the Row 44 Merger to AIA, which became our majority-owned subsidiary after the consummation of the Business Combination, and which shares therefore are not considered outstanding. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, have the ability to determine the outcome of corporate actions of the Company requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock may cause the market price of our securities to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Former Row 44 equity holders are subject to certain lock-up agreements. In accordance with these agreements, Row 44 stockholders are not permitted to sell (a) (i) 40% of our shares held by such holder (including shares underlying any warrants), and (ii) any of the Shares placed into escrow in connection with the closing of the Business Combination for such stockholders’ benefit (in each excluding any shares issued under the Backstop Agreements) until the earlier to occur of (A) the six-month anniversary of closing, or (B) if the last sales price of Company shares exceeds $12.00 per share for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period commencing at least 45 days after closing, the last day of such 30-trading day period, and (b) the remaining Company shares until the earlier to occur of (i) the first anniversary of closing, or (ii) if the last sales price of Company shares exceeds $12.00 per share for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period commencing at least six months after closing, the last day of such 30-trading day period. Similarly, Row 44 option holders are not permitted to sell (a) 50% of our shares held by such holder (including shares underlying any warrants) until the earlier to occur of (i) the six-month anniversary of closing, or (ii) if the last sales price of Company shares exceeds $12.00 per share for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period commencing at least 45 days after closing, the last day of such 30-trading day period, and (b) the remaining Company shares until the earlier to occur of (i) the first anniversary of closing, or (ii) if the last sales price of Company shares exceeds $12.00 per share for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period commencing at least six months after closing, the last day of such 30-trading day period. None of the shares we issued pursuant to the Backstop Agreements are subject to a lock-up provision. Upon the consummation of the Business Combination, we entered into an amended and restated registration rights agreement with respect to the Founder Shares, shares of our common stock underlying the Sponsor Warrants, the shares of our common stock (including shares of voting common stock issuable upon conversion of the non-voting common stock) issued under the Row 44 Merger Agreement, the AIA Stock Purchase Agreement and the Backstop Agreements, and shares of our common stock underlying any warrants originally exercisable for shares of capital stock of Row 44, which warrants, pursuant to the terms of Row 44 Merger Agreement, are now, or may be, exercisable, for shares of our common stock, which securities we collectively refer to as “registrable securities.” The stockholders of Row 44 (other than PAR) that received shares of our common stock pursuant to the Row 44 Merger Agreement are intended third party beneficiaries of the registration rights agreement. This registration rights agreement amends and restates entirely the registration rights agreement we entered into in connection with our initial public offering. Under the Row 44 Merger Agreement, we agreed to file a registration statement with the SEC within seven (7) business days after the Business Combination covering the resale of the registrable securities. Holders of (i) a majority of the Founder Shares, (ii) a majority of the shares issued to PAR and its affiliates under Agreement, the AIA Stock Purchase Agreement and the PAR Backstop Agreement, or (iii) at least 10,000,000 of the registrable securities will also be entitled to require us to undertake an underwritten public offering of all or a portion of the registrable securities pursuant to an effective registration statement, no more than once during any six month period, so long as the estimated market value of the registrable securities to be sold in such offering is at least $71.3 million. Holders of registrable securities will also have certain “piggyback” registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the Business Combination. - 23 - Upon effectiveness of the registration statement we file pursuant to the registration rights agreement, or upon the expiration of the lockup periods applicable to the capital stock that we will issue to Row 44 equity holders, these parties may sell large amounts of our stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, which could have the effect of increasing the volatility in our stock price or putting significant downward pressure on the price of our stock. The listing of our common stock on with Nasdaq is subject to considerable rules and regulations. In order to continue listing our securities on Nasdaq, we must maintain certain financial, distribution and stock price levels. Generally, we must maintain a minimum amount in stockholders’ equity (generally $2,500,000) and a minimum number of public stockholders (generally 300 public holders). If Nasdaq delists our securities from trading on its exchange and we are not able to list our securities on another national securities exchange, we expect our securities could be quoted on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) or the OTC Market. If this were to occur, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: ·a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; ·reduced liquidity for our securities; ·a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities; ·a limited amount of news and analyst coverage; and ·a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. The National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996, which is a federal statute, prevents or preempts the states from regulating the sale of certain securities, which are referred to as “covered securities.” Because our common stock is listed on Nasdaq, our common stock is a covered security. Although the states are preempted from regulating the sale of our common stock because it is a covered security, the federal statute does allow the states to investigate companies if there is a suspicion of fraud, and, if there is a finding of fraudulent activity, then the states can regulate or bar the sale of covered securities in a particular case. Further, if we were no longer listed on Nasdaq, our securities would not be covered securities and we would be subject to regulation in each state in which we offer our securities. The market price of our securities may be volatile and may decline as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. If the benefits of the Business Combination do not meet the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the market price of our securities may decline. The trading price of our securities could be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Any of the factors listed below could have a material adverse effect on your investment in our securities and our securities may trade at prices significantly below the price you paid for them. In such circumstances, the trading price of our securities may not recover and may experience a further decline. Factors affecting the trading price of our securities may include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; - 24 - • changes in the market’s expectations about our operating results; • success of competitors; • our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning the Company, the market for in-flight entertainment, the airline industry, or the travel market in general; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • our ability to market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; • commencement of, or involvement in, litigation involving the Company; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; • the volume of shares of our common stock available for public sale; • any major change in our board or management; • sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur; and • general economic and political conditions such as recessions, interest rates, fuel prices, international currency fluctuations and acts of war or terrorism. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our securities irrespective of our operating performance. The stock market in general, and Nasdaq in particular have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the particular companies affected. The trading prices and valuations of these stocks, and of our securities, may not be predictable. A loss of investor confidence in the market for retail stocks or the stocks of other companies which investors perceive to be similar to us could depress our stock price regardless of our business, prospects, financial conditions or results of operations. A decline in the market price of our securities also could adversely affect our ability to issue additional securities and our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. Warrants became exercisable for our common stock, which increases the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and results in dilution to our stockholders. Outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 26,659,167 shares of our common stock became exercisable for a like number of shares of our common stock in accordance with the terms of the warrant agreement governing those securities. These warrants consist of 18,992,500 warrants originally sold as part of units in our initial public offering and 7,000,000 Sponsor Warrants that were sold by us to the Sponsor in a private sale simultaneously with our initial public offering. Additionally, on November 21, 2012, the Sponsor advanced to us $500,000 pursuant to a convertible note issued by us to the Sponsor. The Sponsor converted the aggregate principal amount of $500,000 outstanding under the convertible note into 666,667 Sponsor Warrants upon consummation of the Business Combination. These warrants became exercisable 30 days after the completion of the Business Combination, and will expire at 5:00 p.m., New York time, five years after the completion of the Business Combination or earlier upon redemption or liquidation. The exercise price of these warrants is $11.50 per share, or $306,580,421 in the aggregate for all shares underlying these warrants. In addition, certain warrants to purchase shares of Row 44 capital stock became exercisable for 5,848,472 shares of our common stock as a result of the Row 44 Merger. To the extent such warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to the holders of common stock of the Company and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about the Company, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the price and trading volume of our common stock could decline. - 25 - The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors. If insufficient securities or industry analysts cover us, our stock price and trading volume would likely be negatively impacted. If any of the analysts covering us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. If any analyst who covers us were to cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. We are a holding company with no business operations of our own and will depend on cash flow from Row 44 and AIA to meet our obligations. Upon the consummation of the Business Combination, we became a holding company with no business operations of our own or material assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. All of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries, Row 44 and AIA. As a holding company, we will require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements. The terms of any agreements governing indebtedness that we may enter into may restrict our subsidiaries from paying dividends and otherwise transferring cash or other assets to us. If there is an insolvency, liquidation or other reorganization of any of our subsidiaries, our stockholders likely will have no right to proceed against their assets. Creditors of those subsidiaries will be entitled to payment in full from the sale or other disposal of the assets of those subsidiaries before we, as an equity holder, would be entitled to receive any distribution from that sale or disposal. If Row 44 or AIA is unable to pay dividends or make other payments to us when needed, we will be unable to satisfy our obligations. Our corporate structure may create tax inefficiencies. As a result of the Business Combination, AIA is a majority-owned subsidiary of the Company and thus a controlled foreign corporation of the Company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This organizational structure may create inefficiencies, as certain types of income and investments of AIA that otherwise would not be currently taxable under general tax principles, may become taxable. In addition, distributions from the operating subsidiaries of AIA may be subject to additional withholding tax and result in lower profits. It is our intention to streamline our corporate structure and, by doing so, certain transactions in the restructuring could be taxable in the United States and Germany. We cannot presently predict the impact such restructuring may have on U.S. and foreign tax liability. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • the ability of our board of directors to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or annual meeting of our stockholders; • the requirement that an annual meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; - 26 - • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of stockholder meetings; • providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings of stockholders and to cancel previously scheduled annual meetings of stockholders; • providing that directors may be removed prior to the expiration of their terms by stockholders only for cause; and • advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of the Company or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the DGCL, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of the Company’s outstanding common stock. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. We incurred significant transaction and transition costs in connection with the Business Combination. We incurred significant, non-recurring costs in connection with consummating the Business Combination and will incur additional such costs integrating the operations of Row 44 and AIA and operating as a public company. We may incur additional costs to maintain employee morale and to retain key employees. We also incurred significant fees and expenses relating to financing arrangements and legal, accounting and other transaction fees and costs associated with the Business Combination. Registration of the shares underlying the warrants and a current prospectus may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise its warrants and causing such warrants to expire worthless. Under the warrant agreement, we are obligated to use our best efforts to maintain the effectiveness of a registration statement under the Securities Act, and a current prospectus relating thereto, until the expiration of the warrants in accordance with the provisions of the warrant agreement. In addition, we are obligated to use our best efforts to register the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of a warrant under the blue sky laws of the states of residence of the exercising warrant holder to the extent an exemption is not available. - 27 - If any such registration statement is not effective on the 60th day following the closing of the Business Combination or afterward, we are required to permit holders to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis, under certain circumstances specified in the warrant agreement. As of the date of this report, a registration statement has not been filed with respect to the shares underlying the warrants. However, no warrant will be exercisable for cash or on a cashless basis, and we will not be obligated to issue any shares to holders seeking to exercise their warrants, unless the shares issuable upon such exercise are registered or qualified under the securities laws of the state of the exercising holder to the extent an exemption is unavailable. In no event will we be required to issue cash, securities or other compensation in exchange for the warrants in the event that the shares underlying such warrants are not registered or qualified under the Securities Act or applicable state securities laws. If the issuance of the shares upon exercise of the warrants is not so registered or qualified, the holder of such warrant shall not be entitled to exercise such warrant and such warrant may have no value and expire worthless. If and when the warrants become redeemable, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying shares of common stock for sale under all applicable state securities laws. We may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders with the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding warrants sold as part of the units in our initial public offering. Our warrants were issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between American Transfer & Stock Company, LLC, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding warrants sold as part of the units in our initial public offering to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding warrants sold as part of the units in our initial public offering approve of such amendment. Although our ability to amend the terms of the warrants with the consent of at least 65% of the then outstanding warrants is unlimited, examples of such amendments could be amendments to, among other things, increase the exercise price of the warrants, shorten the exercise period or decrease the number of shares of our common stock purchasable upon exercise of a warrant. We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to you, thereby making your warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants at any time prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of the common stock equals or exceeds $17.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading-day period ending on the third trading day prior to proper notice of such redemption provided that on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time we redeem the warrants, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is available. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Redemption of the outstanding warrants could force you (i) to exercise your warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for you to do so, (ii) to sell your warrants at the then-current market price when you might otherwise wish to hold your warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of your warrants. None of the Sponsor Warrants will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by members of the Sponsor or their permitted transferees. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 