Item 1A. Risk Factors Ownership of our securities involves a high degree of risk. Holders of our securities should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained in this Form 10-K, including our historical financial statements and related notes included herein. The following discussion highlights some of the risks that may affect future operating results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or businesses in general, may also impair our businesses operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected in a material way. This could cause the trading prices of our securities to decline, perhaps significantly, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Please see “Cautionary Notes Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business The markets for digital signage and advertising are competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully. The markets for digital signage and advertising are very competitive and we must compete with other established providers. We compete with larger companies in many of the markets we serve. We compete for advertising sales directly with all media platforms, including radio and television broadcasting, cable and satellite television services, various local print media, billboards and Internet portals and search engines and digital out-of-home advertising represents a small portion of this market. We expect existing competitors and new entrants into the markets where we do business to constantly revise and improve their business models in light of challenges from us or other companies in the industry. If we cannot respond effectively to advances by our competitors, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. Increased competition may result in new products and services that fundamentally change our markets, reduce prices, reduce margins or decrease our market share. We may be unable to compete successfully against current or future competitors, some of whom may have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and other resources than we do. Our operations are subject to the strength or weakness of our customers’ businesses, and we may not be able to mitigate that risk. A large percentage of our business is attributable to customers in industries which are sensitive to general economic conditions. During periods of economic slowdown or during periods of weak business results, our customers often reduce their capital and advertising expenditures and defer or cancel pending projects, facilities upgrades or promotional activities. Such developments occur even among customers that are not experiencing financial difficulties. For example, in 2008, a very large U.S.- based mortgage company, which was at the time one of our largest Enterprise Solutions customers, did not buy any of our products as a result of the economic downturn. Similar slowdowns could affect our customers in the hospitality industry in the wake of terrorist attacks, economic downturns or material changes in corporate travel habits. In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting economic conditions, budgeting and buying patterns. Periods of a slowing economy or recession, or periods of economic uncertainty, may be accompanied by a decrease in advertising spending. Continued weakness in the industries we serve has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on sales of our products and our results of operations. A long term continued or heightened economic downturn in one or more of the key industries that we serve, or in the worldwide economy, could cause actual results of operations to differ materially from historical and expected results. Furthermore, even in the absence of a downturn in general economic conditions, our customers may reduce the money they spend on our products and services for a number of other reasons, including: ● a decline in economic conditions in an industry we serve; ● a decline in advertising or capital spending in general; ● a decision to shift expenditures to competing products; ● unfavorable local or regional economic conditions; or ● a downturn in an individual business sector or market. 10 Such conditions could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from our products and services, with a corresponding adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The recent and ongoing global economic uncertainty may adversely impact our business, operating results or financial condition. As widely reported, financial markets in the U.S., Europe and Asia have experienced extreme disruption since late 2008, and while there has been improvement in recent years, the worldwide economy remains fragile as uncertainty remains regarding when the economy will improve to historical growth levels. Any return to the conditions that existed during the recent recession or other unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including declining consumer confidence, concerns about inflation or deflation, the threat of another recession, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy and extreme volatility in the credit and equity markets, may lead to decreased demand or delay in payments by our customers or to slowing of their payments to us, and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by these actions. These challenging economic conditions also may result in: ● increased competition for fewer industry dollars; ● pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue and gross margin; ● reduced credit availability and/or access to capital markets; ● difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning due to limited visibility into the spending plans of current or prospective customers; or ● customer financial difficulty and increased risk of doubtful accounts receivable. A higher percentage of our sales and profitability occur in the third and fourth quarters. We sell more of our products in the third and fourth quarters because of traditional technology and advertising buying patterns of our customers. Advertising cycles, corporate year end budgets, government buying and regional economics will affect the amount of our products and services that will fit into customers’ budgets late in the year. Any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during the third and fourth quarters could have an adverse effect on our annual sales and profitability. In addition, slower selling cycles during the first and second quarters may adversely affect our stock price. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We base our planned operating expenses in part on expectations of future revenues, and our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. If revenues for a particular quarter are lower than we expect, we may be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm our operating results for that quarter. In future periods, our revenue and operating results may be below the expectation of analysts and investors, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Factors that are likely to cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate include those discussed elsewhere in this section. The nature of advertising sales cycles and shifting needs of advertisers makes it difficult for us to forecast revenues and increases the variability of quarterly fluctuations, which could cause us to improperly plan for our operations. A substantial amount of our advertising commitments are made months in advance of when the advertising airs on our media networks. Between the time at which advertising commitments are made and the advertising is aired, the needs of our advertisers can change. Advertisers may desire to change the timing, level of commitment and other aspects of their advertising placements. As a result, our future advertising commitment at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual revenues for any succeeding period, making it more difficult to predict our financial performance. These changes could also negatively impact our financial performance, including quarterly fluctuations. Implementation and integration of new products, such as expanding our advertising assets, software, media player and services product portfolios, could harm our results of operations. A key component of our growth strategy is to develop and market new products. We may be unable to produce new products and services that meet customers’ needs or specifications. If we fail to meet specific product specifications requested by a customer, the customer may have the right to seek an alternate source for a product or service or to terminate an underlying agreement. A failure to successfully meet the specifications of our potential customers could decrease demand or otherwise significantly hinder market adoption of our products and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 11 The process of introducing a new product to the market is extremely complex, time consuming and expensive, and will become more complex as new platforms and technologies emerge. In the event we are not successful in developing a wide range of offerings or do not gain wide acceptance in the marketplace, we may not recoup our investment costs, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Shortages of components or a loss of, or problems with, a supplier could result in a disruption in the installation or operation of our products or services. From time to time, we have experienced delays in manufacturing our products for several reasons, including component delivery delays, component shortages and component quality deficiencies. Component shortages, delays in the delivery of components and supplier product quality deficiencies may occur in the future. These delays or problems have in the past and could in the future result in delivery delays, reduced revenues, strained relations with customers and loss of business. Also, in an effort to avoid actual or perceived component shortages, we may purchase more components than we may otherwise require. Excess component inventory resulting from over-purchases, obsolescence, installation cancellations or a decline in the demand for our products could result in equipment impairment, which in the past has had and in the future would have a negative effect on our financial results. We obtain several of the components used in our products from limited sources. We rarely have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers, and cannot be sure that suppliers will be able to meet our current or future component requirements. If component manufacturers do not allocate a sufficient supply of components to meet our needs or if current suppliers do not provide components of adequate quality or compatibility, we may have to obtain these components at a higher cost from distributors or on the spot market. If we are forced to use alternative suppliers of components, we may have to alter our manufacturing processes or solutions offerings to accommodate these components. Modification of our manufacturing processes or our solutions offerings to use alternative components could cause significant delays and reduce our ability to generate revenues. The failure of our service providers to provide, install and maintain our equipment could result in service interruptions and damage to our business. We are and will continue to be significantly dependent upon third-party service providers to provide, install and maintain relevant video display and media player equipment at our installations. The failure of any third-party provider to continue to perform these services adequately and timely could interrupt our business and damage our relationship with our partners and their relationship with consumers. Any outage would also impact our ability to deliver on the contracted service levels, which would prevent us from recognizing revenues. We rely on third parties for data transmission, and the interruption or unavailability of adequate bandwidth for transmission could prevent us from distributing our programming as planned. We transmit the majority of the content that we provide to our partners and customers using Internet connectivity supplied by a variety of third-party network providers. We also rely on the networks of some of our partners to transmit content to individual screens. If we or our partners experience failures or limited network capacity, we may be unable to maintain programming and meet our advertising commitments. Problems with data transmission may be due to hardware failures, operating system failures or other causes beyond our control. In addition, there are a limited number of Internet providers with whom we could contract, and we may be unable to replace our current providers on favorable terms, if at all. If the transmission of data to our partners or customers becomes unavailable, limited due to bandwidth constraints or is interrupted or delayed because of necessary equipment changes, our partner and customer relationships and our ability to obtain revenues from current and new partners and customers could suffer. Computer viruses could cause significant downtime for our media network, decreasing our revenues and damaging our relationships with partners and customers. We generate revenues from the sales of advertising and content that is aired in our partners’ and customers’ installations. Computer hackers infecting our network, or the networks of our partners or customers in which our network is integrated, with viruses could cause our network to be unavailable. Significant downtime could decrease our revenues and harm our relationships and reputation with partners, customers and consumers. Our products often operate on the same network used by our customers for other aspects of their businesses, and we may be held responsible for defects or breakdowns in these networks if it is believed that such defects or breakdowns were caused by our products. Our products are operated across our customers’ proprietary networks, which are used to operate other aspects of these customers’ businesses. In these circumstances, any defect or virus that occurs on our products may enter a customer’s network, which could impact other aspects of the customer’s business. The impact on a customer’s business could be severe, and if we were held responsible, it could have an adverse effect on our customer relationships and on our operating results. 12 The content we distribute to partners and customers may expose us to liability. We provide or facilitate the distribution of content for our partners and customers. This content includes advertising-related content, as well as movie and television content and other media, much of which is obtained from third parties. As a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement, or other claims based on the content that we distribute. We or entities that we license content from may not be adequately insured or indemnified to cover claims of these types or liability that may be imposed on us. The growth of our business is dependent in part on successfully implementing our international expansion strategy. Our growth strategy includes expanding our geographic coverage in or into the Asia-Pacific region, Europe, the Middle East and Latin America. In many cases, we have limited experience in these regions, and may encounter difficulties due to different technology standards, legal considerations, language barriers, distance and cultural differences. We may not be able to manage operations in these regions effectively and efficiently or compete effectively in these new markets. If we do not generate sufficient revenues from these regions to offset the expense of expansion into these regions, or if we do not effectively manage accounts receivable, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and taxes, our business and our ability to increase revenues and enhance our operating results could suffer. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute on expansion strategies or meet the demands of advertisers. We have expanded, and continue to expand, our operations into new markets. The growth in our business and operations has required, and will continue to require, significant attention from management and place a strain on operational systems and resources. To accommodate this growth, we will need to upgrade, improve or implement a variety of operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including the improvement of accounting and other internal management systems, all of which require substantial management efforts. We will also need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, manage our relationships with our customers, and add sales and marketing offices and personnel to service these relationships. All of these endeavors will require substantial managerial efforts and skill, and incur additional expenditures. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively and, as a result, may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute on expansion strategies or meet the demands of our customers. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions of Symon and RMG or of future acquisitions or investments. We acquired our operating subsidiaries in two separate business combinations in April 2013, and our operating subsidiaries, in turn, have grown their businesses in part through acquisitions. For example, AFS Message-Link and Dacon, Ltd. are companies that Symon purchased in 2006 and 2008, respectively. AFS Message-Link allowed Symon to enter the hospitality digital markets as a key industry participant, and Symon’s acquisition of Dacon, a company based in the United Kingdom, expanded Symon’s contact center market presence and its base of large resellers. Likewise, RMG established its executive airline club business through the acquisition of the Executive Media Network and its wholly-owned subsidiaries in April 2011. As part of our business strategy, we intend to make future acquisitions of, or investments in, technologies, products and businesses that we believe could complement or expand our business, enhance our technical capabilities or offer growth opportunities. However, we may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future or make these acquisitions on a commercially reasonable basis, or at all. In addition, we may spend significant management time and resources in analyzing and negotiating acquisitions or investments that do not come to fruition. These resources could otherwise be spent on our own customer development, marketing and customer sales efforts and research and development. Our acquisitions of Symon and RMG, and any future acquisitions and investments we may undertake, subject us to various risks, including: ● failure to transition key customer relationships and sustain or grow sales levels, particularly in the short-term; ● loss of key employees related to acquisitions; ● inability to successfully integrate acquired technologies or operations; ● failure to realize anticipated synergies in sales, marketing and distribution; ● diversion of management’s attention; ● adverse effects on our existing business relationships; 13 ● potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities; ● expenses related to amortization of intangible assets and potential write-offs of acquired assets; and ● the inability to recover the costs of acquisitions. If our acquisition strategy is not effective, we may not be able to expand our business as expected. In addition, our operating expenses may increase more than our revenues as a result of such expansion efforts, which could materially impact our operating results and our stock price. Our strategy to expand our sales and marketing operations and activities may not generate the revenue increases anticipated or such revenue increases may only be realized over a longer period than currently expected. Building a digital signage solutions customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our digital signage solutions will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing operations and activities. We plan to expand our direct sales force both domestically and internationally; however, there is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of direct sales personnel. Our business could be harmed if our sales and marketing expansion efforts do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue. Our RMG subsidiary has a history of incurring significant net losses, and our future profitability is not assured. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, RMG, which we acquired on April 8, 2013, incurred net losses of $11.5 million and $14.9 million, respectively. RMG’s operating results for future periods are subject to numerous uncertainties and there can be no assurances that it will be profitable in the foreseeable future, if at all. If our RMG Media Networks business unit revenues decrease in a given period, we may be unable to reduce cost of revenues as a significant part of its cost of revenues is fixed, which could materially and adversely affect our business and, therefore, our results of operations and lead to a net loss for that period and subsequent periods. We have minimum payment commitments to certain advertising partners that if we cannot service could negatively impact our profitability. We have minimum payment commitments to three of our advertising partners. These commitments constitute a significant part of our cost of revenues. If our revenues decrease in a given period, we may be unable to reduce cost of revenues as a significant part of our cost of revenues is fixed, which could materially and adversely affect our business and, therefore, our results of operations and lead to a net loss for that period and subsequent periods. Our RMG subsidiary has a limited operating history, which may make it difficult to evaluate its business and prospects. RMG began business operations in September 2005 as Danouv Inc., developing a digital signage technology platform for ad serving and content distribution. RMG launched an initial media network with 650 screens in coffee shops and eateries in August 2006. In September 2006, Danouv Inc. changed its name to Danoo Inc. In July 2009, Danoo purchased certain assets of IdeaCast Inc., which operated a digital signage network in gyms and fitness centers and in the airline in-flight entertainment space. In August 2009, Danoo was renamed RMG Networks, Inc. RMG acquired certain assets and cash from Pharmacy TV Network, LLC in March 2010 in an all-stock transaction. Pharmacy TV was a retail point of sale network in pharmacies across the United States. RMG subsequently shut this network down during the fourth quarter of 2011 due to lack of scale and advertiser demand. RMG acquired Executive Media Network Worldwide and its wholly-owned subsidiaries Corporate Image Media, Inc. and Prophet Media, LLC (collectively the Executive Media Network) in April 2011 to extend its airline media offering from airport business lounges to in-flight media. The Executive Media Network acquisition introduced a proprietary booking, tracking and inventory system called Charlie into the RMG technology portfolio. The Executive Media Network was subsequently transitioned to the RMG technology platform for content delivery and network management. This acquisition also consolidated the number of companies in the United States working with airlines to sell media. During the first quarter of 2012, RMG divested the NYTimes.com Today network, and in July 2012 RMG sold the Fitness Network. RMG took steps to align resources behind the airline media properties because RMG was a category leader in that space in 2012. Accordingly, it has a limited operating history for operations upon which you can evaluate the viability and sustainability of its business and its acceptance by advertisers and consumers. It is also difficult to evaluate the viability of RMG’s use of audiovisual advertising displays in airline executive clubs, IFE displays, Wi-Fi advertising and other digital out-of-home commercial locations as a business model because it does not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by early stage companies using new forms of advertising media and entering new and rapidly evolving markets. These circumstances may make it difficult to evaluate RMG’s business and prospects. 14 The airline industry is highly competitive, and a substantial weakening of, or business failure by, any of our partner airlines could negatively affect our revenues and jeopardize any investment we make in deploying the RMG Airline Network in airline executive clubs. The airline industry is highly competitive and has experienced substantial consolidation. Because our ability to generate revenues from advertising sales and services depends upon our ongoing relationships with a limited number of airlines, any substantial weakening or failure of the business of one or more of our existing airlines, or the consolidation of one or more of our airlines with a third party, could cause our revenues to decline, adversely affecting our business and prospects. We have in the past made, and plan in the future to make, significant investments in the equipment, installation and support of the RMG Airline Network within airline executive clubs. We intend to pursue opportunities where we may invest in new airline relationships and the deployment of new media inventory, and the weakening, failure or acquisition of any of our airline partners in the future could result in our loss of our investment and/or a negative return on our investment. In addition, we may incur additional expense recovering our equipment from airline executive clubs in the event any such clubs cease to operate or close for any reason. If we are unable to retain or renew existing partnerships on commercially advantageous terms, we may be unable to maintain or expand advertising network coverage and our costs may increase significantly in the future. Our ability to generate revenues from advertising sales depends largely upon our ability to provide a large air travel and office advertising network for the display of advertisements. However, there can be no assurances that we will be able retain or renew our existing partnerships with inventory partners and any failure to maintain our network could damage our relationships with advertisers and materially and adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2013, we had 12 partnership contracts that have terms ranging from one to five years. Four contracts renew automatically unless terminated prior to renewal while the rest have no automatic renewal provisions. One partnership contract is subject to renewal in 2014. In addition, we have minimum payment commitments to three of our partners, which comprise a significant portion of our total cost of revenues. These commitments may increase over time and as partnership contracts terminate, we may experience a significant increase in our costs of revenues when we have to renew these contracts. If we cannot pass increased costs onto advertisers through rate increases, our earnings and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, many of our partnership contracts contain provisions granting us certain exclusive advertising rights. We may not be able to retain these exclusivity provisions when we renew these contracts. If we were to lose exclusivity, our advertisers may decide to advertise with our competitors or otherwise reduce their spending on our network and we may lose market share. Our partners may terminate their contracts with us or may not enter into new contracts with us on terms that are commercially advantageous to us. If our partners seek to negotiate terms that are less favorable to us and we accept such terms, or if we seek to negotiate better terms, but are unable to do so, then our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We have relied, and may continue to rely, on a limited number of advertisers for a significant portion of our advertising-related revenues, and such revenues could decline due to the delay of orders from, or the loss of, one or more significant advertisers. A small number of advertisers may constitute a significant portion of our advertising-related revenues. Our relationships with these advertisers may not expand or may be disrupted. If a major advertiser purchases less advertising or defers orders in any particular period, or if a relationship with a major advertiser is terminated, our revenues could decline and our operating results may be adversely affected. We are also obligated to provide minimum payments to three partners, which we could have difficulty satisfying if our advertising revenues generated with existing partners significantly decrease for any reason or if we fail to generate advertising revenues with newly obtained partners for any reason. In addition, such new partners may require their own minimum payments. If advertisers or the viewing public do not accept, or lose interest in, our digital out-of-home advertising network, our revenues may be adversely affected and our business may not expand or be successful. The market for digital out-of-home advertising networks worldwide is relatively new and its potential is uncertain. We compete for advertising spending with many forms of more established advertising media. Our success depends on the acceptance of digital out-of-home advertising networks by advertisers and their continuing interest in these media networks as components of their advertising strategies. Our success also depends on the viewing public continuing to be receptive towards its advertising network. Advertisers may elect not to use our services if they believe that consumers are not receptive to our networks or that our networks do not provide sufficient value as effective advertising media. Likewise, if consumers find some element of our networks, such as its in-flight roadblock unit, to be disruptive or intrusive, the airlines may decide not to place our digital displays in their properties or allow us to sell advertising on their IFE systems and advertisers may view our advertising network as a less attractive advertising medium compared to other alternatives. In that event, advertisers may decide to reduce their spending on our networks. If a substantial number of advertisers lose interest in advertising on our networks for these or other reasons, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenues and cash flow to operate our business, and our advertising service revenue, liquidity and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 15 Advertisers may not accept our measurements of our networks audiences or the methodologies may change, which could negatively impact our ability to market and sell our advertising packages. We engage third-party research firms to study the number of people viewing our networks, consumer viewing habits and brand recall. Because our digital out-of-home networks are different from at-home broadcast media, third-party research firms have developed measuring standards and methodologies that differ from those used to measure the amount and characteristics of viewers for other broadcast media. We market and sell advertising packages to advertisers based on these measurements. If third-party research firms were to change the way they measure viewers or their viewing habits, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell advertising. In addition, if advertisers do not accept or challenge the way third parties measure our viewers or their viewing habits, advertisers may be unwilling to purchase advertising at prices acceptable to us, if at all, and our revenues and operating results could be negatively impacted. If consumers do not accept our ad-based networks as a part of their out-of-home experience, we may be unable to grow or maintain our Media Networks business. The success of our Media Networks business depends, in part, upon the long-term acceptance of digital media in out-of-home settings by consumers. If consumer viewership of our networks or sentiment towards advertising in general, shifts such that consumers become less receptive, advertisers may reduce their spending and partners may decide not to carry our networks. If people change the way they travel or reduce the amount that they travel, our revenues may decline and our business may suffer. Our success in selling advertising depends, in part, on high traffic airlines and airline executive clubs, which increases the number of potential viewers for the RMG Airline Network. The price at which we sell advertising aired on the RMG Airline Network is a direct result of the number of viewers and the quality of those viewers. If the number of travelers visiting the airline clubs or flying on commercial airplanes decreases, advertisers may decide not to advertise on the RMG Airline Network, may purchase less advertising on the RMG Airline Network or may not be willing to pay for advertising at price points necessary for it to succeed. If alternative methods of communication such as the Internet and other forms of travel increase in popularity, fewer consumers may visit our travel media locations. If consumers change the way they travel, such as increasing travel by car, they may not be receptive to our programming. In either case, our ability to generate revenues from advertisers could decrease and our operating results could be adversely affected. If people change the underlying behaviors that drive viewership of our networks, our revenues may decline and our business may be adversely affected. Our success in selling advertising depends, in part, on the usage of airlines and airline executive clubs, business offices and shopping malls. Higher usage increases the number of potential viewers for our networks. The price at which we sell advertising is a direct result of the number of viewers and the quality of those viewers of our networks. If the number of travelers visiting the airline clubs, flying on commercial airplanes, using offices or visiting shopping malls decreases, advertisers may decide not to advertise on our networks, may purchase less advertising on our networks or may not be willing to pay for advertising at price points necessary for our networks’ profitable operations. If substitutes for the activities that drive viewership to our networks increase in popularity, fewer consumers may view our networks, our ability to generate revenues from advertisers could decrease and our operating results could be adversely affected. We rely significantly on information systems and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of those systems could harm our ability to effectively operate our business, harm our net sales, increase our expenses and harm our reputation. Our ability to effectively serve our customers on a timely basis depends significantly on our information systems. To manage the growth of our operations, we will need to continue to improve and expand our operational and financial systems, internal controls and business processes; in doing so, we could encounter implementation issues and incur substantial additional expenses. The failure of our information systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact financial accounting and reporting, efficiency of our operations and our ability to properly forecast earnings and cash requirements. We could be required to make significant additional expenditures to remediate any such failure, problem or breach. Such events may have a material adverse effect on us. Our current or future internet-based operations may be affected by our reliance on third-party hardware and software providers, technology changes, risks related to the failure of computer systems that operate our internet business, telecommunications failures, electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Furthermore, our ability to conduct business on the internet may be affected by liability for online content, patent infringement and state and federal privacy laws. In addition, we may now and in the future implement new systems to increase efficiencies and profitability. To manage growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve and expand our operational and financial systems, internal controls and business processes. When implementing new or changing existing processes, we may encounter transitional issues and incur substantial additional expenses. Experienced computer programmers and hackers, or even internal users, may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, including our customers, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. In addition, employee error, malfeasance or other errors in the storage, use or transmission of any such information could result in a disclosure to third parties outside of our network. As a result, we could incur significant expenses addressing problems created by any such inadvertent disclosure or any security breaches of its network. Any compromise of customer information could subject us to customer or government litigation and harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and growth. 16 We may not obtain sufficient patent protection for our systems, processes and technology, which could harm our competitive position and increase our expenses. Our success and ability to compete depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technology. As of December 31, 2013, we held three issued patents and four pending patent applications in the United States that we consider to be material to our business. Any patents issued may provide only limited protection for our technology and the rights that may be granted under any future issued patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. Any patent applications may not result in issued patents. Also, patent protection in foreign countries may be limited or unavailable where we need this protection. Competitors may independently develop similar technologies, design around our patents or successfully challenge any issued patent that we hold. We rely upon trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights, and if these rights are not sufficiently protected, our ability to compete and generate revenues could be harmed. We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our ability to compete and expand our business could suffer if these rights are not adequately protected. We seek to protect our source code for our software, design code for our advertising network, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We license our software under signed license agreements, which impose restrictions on the licensee’s ability to utilize the software. We also seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality and invention assignment agreements. The steps taken by us to protect our proprietary information may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: ● laws and contractual restrictions may not prevent misappropriation of our technologies or deter others from developing similar technologies; and ● policing unauthorized use of our products and trademarks is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use. The laws of certain foreign countries may not protect the use of unregistered trademarks or our proprietary technologies to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. As a result, international protection of our image may be limited and our right to use our trademarks and technologies outside the United States could be impaired. Other persons or entities may have rights to trademarks that contain portions of our marks or may have registered similar or competing marks for digital signage in foreign countries. There may also be other prior registrations of trademarks identical or similar to our trademarks in other foreign countries. Our inability to register our trademarks or technologies or purchase or license the right to use the relevant trademarks or technologies in these jurisdictions could limit our ability to penetrate new markets in jurisdictions outside the United States. Litigation may be necessary to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, to enforce these rights or to defend against claims by third parties alleging that we infringe, dilute or otherwise violate third-party trademark or other intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us, whether with or without merit, or whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Any intellectual property litigation or claims against us could result in the loss or compromise of our intellectual property rights, could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses on unfavorable terms, if available at all or prevent us from manufacturing or selling certain products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming, costly to defend and result in its loss of significant rights. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, and our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, we receive letters alleging infringement of intellectual property rights of others. We may also initiate claims against third parties to defend our intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our core business. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis could harm our business. Also, we may be unaware of filed patent applications that relate to our products. Parties making infringement claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from operating portions of our business or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property. Any intellectual property litigation could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 We depend on key executive management and other key personal, and may not be able to retain or replace these individuals or recruit additional personnel, which could harm our business. We depend on the leadership and experience of our key executive management, as well as other key personnel with specialized industry, sales and technical knowledge and/or industry relationships. Because of the intense competition for these employees, particularly in certain of the metropolitan areas in which we operate, we may be unable to retain our management team and other key personnel and may be unable to find qualified replacements if their services were no longer available to us. All of our key employees are employed on an “at will” basis and we do not have key-man life insurance covering any of our employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive management members or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, as we may not be able to find suitable individuals to replace such personnel on a timely basis or without incurring increased costs, or at all. Our facilities are located in areas that could be negatively impacted by natural disasters. Our business operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our facilities, computer systems and personnel, which are primarily located in Addison, Texas. In addition, we manage our networks from our headquarters in Addison, and have significant operations in California. Addison is located in an area that experiences frequent severe weather, including tornadoes, and parts of California exists on or near known earthquake fault zones. Should a tornado, earthquake or other catastrophe, such as fires, floods, power loss, communication failure, terrorist acts or similar events, disable our facilities, our operations would be disrupted. While we have developed a backup and recovery plan, such plan may not ultimately prove effective. Government regulation of the telecommunications and advertising industries could require us to change our business practices and expose us to legal action. The Federal Communications Commission, or the FCC, has broad jurisdiction over the telecommunications industry. FCC licensing, program content and related regulations generally do not currently affect us. However, the FCC could promulgate new regulations that impact our business directly or indirectly or interpret existing laws in a manner that would cause us to incur significant compliance costs or force us to alter our business strategy. FCC regulations also affect many of our content providers and, therefore, these regulations may indirectly affect our business. In addition, the advertising industry is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, the Food and Drug Administration and other federal and state agencies, and to review by various civic groups and trade organizations, including the National Advertising Division of the Council of Better Business Bureaus. New laws or regulations governing advertising could substantially harm our business. We may also be required to obtain various regulatory approvals from local, state or federal governmental bodies. We may not be able to obtain any required approvals, and any approval may be granted on terms that are unacceptable to us or that adversely affect our business. Changes in regulations relating to Wi-Fi networks or other areas of the Internet may require us to alter our business practices or incur greater operating expenses. A number of regulations, including those referenced below, may impact our business as a result of our use of Wi-Fi networks. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not necessarily eliminate, liability for distributing materials that infringe copyrights or other rights. Portions of the Communications Decency Act are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third-party content. The Child Online Protection Act and the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. The costs of compliance with these regulations, and other regulations relating to our Wi-Fi networks or other areas of our business, may be significant. The manner in which these and other regulations may be interpreted or enforced may subject us to potential liability, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes to these and other regulations may impose additional burdens on us or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results because of, for example, increased costs relating to legal compliance, defense against adverse claims or damages, or the reduction or elimination of features, functionality or content from our Wi-Fi networks. Likewise, any failure on our part to comply with these and other regulations may subject us to additional liabilities. 18 We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligations. We have approximately $8.0 million in outstanding indebtedness under a senior credit facility that is secured by a first-priority security interest in substantially all of our assets. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our outstanding indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If we are unable to make payments or otherwise default on our debt obligations, the lenders could foreclose on our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our outstanding indebtedness requires us to comply with certain financial covenants, the default of which may result in the acceleration of our indebtedness. Our senior credit facility contains financial and operational covenants, including covenants requiring us to achieve specified levels of consolidated EBITDA and to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, which requirements are tested quarterly (beginning with the quarter ending December 31, 2014). The senior credit facility also prohibits us from making capital expenditures above certain thresholds in any fiscal year. Failure to comply with these or other covenants in our senior credit facility would result in an event of default. In the event of any default under our senior credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and could foreclose on our assets. We require a significant amount of liquidity to fund our operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate expenditures. Our ability to fund operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate expenditures, including repayment of our indebtedness, depends on our ability to generate cash through future operating performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We cannot ensure that our businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings or other financing will be available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to fund our needs, we may need to pursue one or more alternatives, such as to: ● reduce or delay planned capital expenditures or investments in our business; ● seek additional financing or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness at or before maturity; ● sell assets or businesses; ● sell additional equity; or ● curtail our operations. Any such actions may materially and adversely affect our future revenue prospects. In addition, we cannot ensure that we will be able to raise additional equity capital, restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders will likely limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of December 31, 2013, our Sponsor and affiliated persons (including Gregory H. Sachs, our Executive Chairman) and entities together beneficially owned almost 40% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these persons and entities have the ability to exercise control over most matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Corporate action might be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company that other stockholders may view as beneficial. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and, if and when we are no longer a “smaller reporting company,” will require that we have such system of internal controls audited. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or Stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. 19 RMG Networks Holding Corporation is a holding company and relies on distributions, loans and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from RMG and Symon to pay dividends, pay expenses and meet our other obligations. We have no direct operations and no significant assets other than our ownership interests in RMG and Symon. Because we conduct our operations through our operating subsidiaries, we depend on RMG and Symon for distributions, loans and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, including our expenses as a publicly traded company, and to pay any dividends with respect to our common stock. Legal and contractual restrictions in agreements governing future indebtedness of RMG and/or Symon, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of RMG and/or Symon, may limit our ability to obtain cash from RMG and/or Symon. The earnings from, or other available assets of, RMG and/or Symon may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable us to pay any dividends on our common stock or satisfy our other financial obligations. Our ability to request indemnification for damages arising out of claims pursuant to the RMG merger agreement is limited to 300,000 of the shares of our common stock issued in the transaction, which are being held in escrow. Consequently, we may not be able to be entirely compensated for indemnifiable damages that we may sustain. The indemnification obligations of RMG’s prior shareholders against losses that we may sustain and that result from, arise out of or relate to any breach by RMG or the RMG shareholders of any of their representations, warranties, or the covenants or agreements contained in the RMG merger agreement is limited to 300,000 shares of our common stock held in escrow. Certain claims for indemnification may be asserted against these shares by us once our damages exceed a $100,000 deductible and will be reimbursable to the full extent of the damages in excess of such amount up to a maximum amount of the escrow shares. The escrow shares will no longer be subject to claims for indemnification after April 30, 2014. As a consequence of these limitations, we may not be able to be entirely compensated for indemnifiable damages that we may sustain. Our ability to request indemnification for damages arising out of claims pursuant to the Symon merger agreement is limited. Consequently, we may not be able to be entirely compensated for indemnifiable damages that we may sustain. The indemnification obligations of Symon against losses that we may sustain and that result from, arise out of or relate to any breach by Symon or its shareholders of for breaches of their representations and warranties contained in the Symon merger agreement is limited to certain specified fundamental representations. We are not entitled to indemnification for breaches of most representations and warranties regarding Symon’s business or operations. Accordingly, we may not be able to be compensated for indemnifiable damages that we may sustain. If the benefits of the transactions with Symon and/or RMG do not meet the expectations of investors, the market price of our securities may decline. The market price of our securities may decline as a result of the transactions with Symon and/or RMG if we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the transactions as rapidly, or to the extent anticipated by investors. Accordingly, investors may experience a loss as a result of a decline in the market price of our securities. A decline in the market price of our securities also could adversely affect our ability to issue additional securities and our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. We may issue additional shares of our common stock, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders. This might have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Following the consummation of our warrant exchange offer, outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 9,649,318 shares of common stock are currently exercisable. These warrants would only be exercised if the $11.50 per share exercise price is below the market price of our common stock. To the extent they are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to our stockholders and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. 20 Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may discourage or delay an acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, which could decrease the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware corporate law contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include those that: authorize the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series without a stockholder vote; limit stockholders’ ability to call special meetings; establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and provide for staggered terms for our directors. In addition, in certain circumstances, Delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. We have not paid cash dividends to our shareholders and currently have no plans to pay future cash dividends. We plan to retain earnings to finance future growth and have no current plans to pay cash dividends to shareholders. In addition, our credit facility restricts our ability to pay dividends. Because we have not paid cash dividends, holders of our securities will experience a gain on their investment in our securities only in the case of an appreciation of value of our securities. You should neither expect to receive dividend income from investing in our securities nor an appreciation in value. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As a smaller reporting company, we are not required to provide the information required by this Item. 