ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSInvesting in our common stock involves substantial risks. In addition to the other information included in this report, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. The risk factors described below are not necessarily exhaustive, and you are encouraged to perform your own investigation with respect to us and our 12Table of Contentsbusiness. You should also read the other information included in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes. As described more fully below, our business is subject to risks and uncertainties that fall in the following categories: •Risks Related to Our Connectivity Operating Segment; •Risks Related to Our Content Operating Segment; •Risks Related to Our Technology and Intellectual Property and Government Regulation; •Risks Related to Our Business and Industry; and •Risks Related to Our Securities. Risks Related to Our Connectivity Operating SegmentWe rely on one key customer for a substantial percentage of our Connectivity operating segment’s revenue. Our Connectivity operating segment, which we operate through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Row 44, is substantially dependent on its customer relationship with Southwest Airlines, which accounted for 73%, 85% and 62% of our Connectivity operating segment’s revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and 22% of our consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. Row 44 and Southwest are parties to an Amended and Restated Supply and Services Agreement, dated as of February 1, 2013, governing the supply by Row 44 of products and services to Southwest, including units of Row 44’s broadband system, Wi-Fi service in connection use such broadband system, live television related services and certain additional contemplated services. If Row 44 fails to meet certain service level requirements related to its television service to Southwest Airlines under the agreement, Southwest Airlines may terminate Row 44’s television service on Southwest aircraft. Similarly, if Row 44 fails to meet certain other obligations related to its technology, equipment and services, Southwest may have the right to terminate the entire agreement with Row 44. Our business would be materially adversely affected if Southwest terminates either the television service or the entire agreement with Row 44. Our Connectivity operating segment has a limited operating history, which may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and predict our future performance. Our Connectivity operating segment did not complete the first installation of its connectivity system until 2009 and did not begin to generate service revenue until 2010. The limited operating history of our Connectivity operating segment may make it difficult to accurately evaluate our potential growth and future performance. Any assessments of our Connectivity operating segment and predictions that we make about future success or viability may not be accurate. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, and the size and nature of our market opportunity will change as we scale our business and increase deployment of our in-flight connectivity system.We may face increased competition from next generation connectivity technologies.Ka-band connectivity solutions are in the early stage of deployment on airlines and may offer benefits for certain of the types of services our Ku-band connectivity solution provides. If airlines value the services in which Ka-band provides those benefits, we may be forced to invest in improving our product offering, including possibly by investing more in our current solution or adopting a new technology, to maintain our current connectivity customers and attract additional customers. Other next generation connectivity solutions, including so-called “ground-to-orbit” solutions have been announced that may also require us to take similar action. Our Connectivity operating segment has incurred significant operating losses since its inception. Prior to the second half of 2013, our Connectivity operating segment had incurred significant operating losses since Row 44’s inception in 2004, and it may not be able to generate sufficient revenue in future periods to generate operating income or positive cash flow. We also expect the operating segment’s costs to fluctuate materially in future periods as we continue to invest resources and inventories in new customers and services, which could negatively affect our future operating results. We expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources as we continue to expand our Connectivity operating segment internationally. The amount and timing of these costs are subject to numerous variables. Such variables include the availability and timing of certain next-generation technologies, such as Ka-band and other satellite technologies, as well as costs incurred to develop and implement changes to airborne software and hardware, the need and costs to expand our service offerings to be competitive and, with respect to satellite technologies, the cost of obtaining satellite capacity.13Table of ContentsWe face limitations on our ability to grow our domestic Connectivity operations that could harm our operating results and financial condition. Our ability to expand our Connectivity operating segment domestically at its current rate of growth is inherently limited by various factors, including the limited on the number of U.S. and foreign commercial airlines operating over our domestic coverage area and who have not already selected a connectivity partner or are otherwise available to sell our products and service, the number of planes operated by our current customers which have not yet been connected and in which our connectivity system can be installed and the passenger capacity within each plane. The growth of our Connectivity operating segment may slow when compared to more recent results, to the extent that we have exhausted all substantial potential airline customers, and as we approach installation on full fleets and maximum penetration rates on all flights. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to profitably expand the domestic market presence or establish new markets and, if we fail to do so, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.We may be unsuccessful in generating revenue from live television, portal and content-on-demand services. We are developing and are scheduled to deploy a number of service offerings to deliver to our commercial airline customers. Live TelevisionWe currently offer up to 18 channels of live television service in the United States, and we intend to expand our live television service to our airline customers in Europe, although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so or in generating meaningful revenue from that source of content abroad. In the U.S., our customer Southwest Airlines maintains a sponsor for its “TV Flies Free” offering which will continue at least through the end of 2014, with a possible extension to 2015. The expiration or termination of this sponsorship, however, could have a material impact on our Connectivity operating segment’s revenue. Additionally, if we are unable to replicate the live television sponsorship model with other airlines, or the take rate for a passenger fee-based live television model does not meet expected targets, our Connectivity operating segment’s ability to generate revenue could be materially adversely affected. Portal ServicesWe currently deploy several advertising based portal services such as a moving map with flight information and we recently launched a Wi-Fi Internet-based texting service onboard Southwest Airlines aircraft. We also intend to further develop and deploy additional Wi-Fi Internet portal services, which we believe will provide our Connectivity operating segment a substantial revenue opportunity in the near term. However, Wi-Fi portal services generate only nominal revenue today. We therefore cannot make any assurance that we will be successful in developing and deploying portal services or that our ability to generate revenue from these services will match our expectations. If our portal services are not successful, our growth and financial prospects would be materially adversely impacted. Content-on-demandSeparate from content-on-demand offering as part of our live television services, we are also working to increase the number of on-demand movies and other content available on our Wi-Fi Internet connectivity system. The future growth prospects for our business depend, in part, on revenue from advertising fees and e-commerce revenue share arrangements on passenger purchases of goods and services, including video and media services. Our ability to generate revenue from these service offerings depends on:•growth of our Connectivity operating segment’s commercial airline customer base;•the attractiveness of our Connectivity operating segment’s customer base to media partners;•rolling out live television and content on demand on more aircraft and with additional airline customers and increasing passenger adoption both in the U.S. and abroad;•establishing and maintaining beneficial contractual relationships with media partners whose content, products and services are attractive to airline passengers; and,14Table of Contents•our ability to customize and improve our Connectivity operating segment’s service offerings in response to trends and customer interests.If we are unsuccessful in generating revenue from our Connectivity operating segment’s service offerings, that failure could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects, financial condition and results of operation. We may be unsuccessful in expanding our Connectivity operating segment internationally, which could harm the growth of our business, operating results and financial conditions. The ability to further expand our Connectivity operating segment internationally involves various risks, including the need to invest significant resources in unfamiliar markets and the possibility that there may not be returns on these investments in the near future, comparable to our recent financial results or at all. In addition, our Connectivity operating segment has incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, expenses before we generate any material revenue in these new markets. Our Connectivity operating segment’s ability to expand will also be limited by the demand for in-flight broadband Internet access in key international markets. Different privacy, censorship, aerospace and liability standards and regulations, governmental instability and political change and different intellectual property laws and enforcement practices in foreign countries may cause our business and operating results to suffer. Additionally, any failure to compete successfully in international markets could negatively impact our reputation and domestic operations.Any future international operations may fail to succeed due to risks inherent in foreign operations, including:•different technological solutions for broadband Internet than those used in North America;•varied, unfamiliar and unclear legal and regulatory restrictions;•unexpected changes in international regulatory requirements and tariffs;•unexpected changes in governmental or political structures in certain foreign countries;•legal, political or systemic restrictions on the ability of U.S. companies to do business in foreign countries, including restrictions on foreign ownership of telecommunications providers or the establishment of economic sanctions by the U.S. affecting businesses such as ours;•inability to find content or service providers to partner with on commercially reasonable terms, or at all;•Foreign Corrupt Practices Act compliance and related risks;•difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;•currency fluctuations; and•potential adverse tax consequences.As a result of these obstacles, we may find it difficult or prohibitively expensive to grow our Connectivity operating segment internationally or may be unsuccessful in our attempt to do so, which could harm our future operating results and financial condition.We are currently engaged in a trial of our Connectivity solution on an aircraft operated by Air China in connection with Air China's choice of a connectivity provider. Failure to win Air China as a client could have an adverse impact on our plans to expand our services into China. We are currently under trial to install our Connectivity solution on an aircraft operated by Air China. The trial will commence aboard a 777-200 aircraft and will enable Air China’s passengers to access the Internet and stored content on approved handheld devices, in accordance with applicable Chinese regulations. An expansion of our business into China will require us to comply with a number of foreign laws, rules and regulations with which we have limited prior experience. Our management team’s lack of experience with these new requirements could increase the likelihood that we will inadvertently violate such a requirement, which could divert more of our resources and negatively impact our business. In addition, we 15Table of Contentscannot assure you that the trials with Air China will be successful, which could mean that the costs incurred and resources expended in connection with these trials may not yield the expansion of our business that we have anticipated. Even if the trials with Air China are successful, we may not realize the benefits of the trial if we are unable to expand our business in China beyond one test aircraft. We cannot assure you that this expansion will generate additional revenues or increase our profitability. Even if this expansion generates the benefits that we have anticipated, there may be other unforeseeable and unintended factors or consequences that occur as a result of the expansion, which could adversely impact our profitability and our business.We rely on single service providers for certain critical components of and services relating to our satellite connectivity network. We currently source key components of our hardware, including the satellite antenna sourced from TECOM Industries, Inc., or TECOM, and key aspects of our connectivity services, including substantially all of our Connectivity operating segment’s satellite transponder services from partners of Hughes Network Systems, LLC, or HNS, from sole providers of equipment and network services, respectively. While we have contracts in effect with these key component and service providers, if we experience a disruption in the delivery of products and services from either of these providers, it may be difficult for us to continue providing our own products and services to our customers. We have experienced component delivery issues in the past, and there can be no assurance that we will avoid similar issues in the future. Additionally, any loss of exclusivity that we have with our hardware providers today could eliminate our competitive advantage in the use of satellites for in-flight connectivity in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.We depend upon third parties to manufacture our Connectivity operating segment’s equipment components and to provide services for our network. We rely on third-party suppliers for equipment components that we use to provide our satellite telecommunication Wi-Fi services. The supply of third party components could be interrupted or halted by a termination of these relationships, a failure of quality control or other operational problems at such suppliers or a significant decline in their financial condition. If we are not able to continue to engage suppliers with the capabilities or capacities required by our Connectivity operating segment, or if such suppliers fail to deliver quality products, parts, equipment and services on a timely basis consistent with our schedule, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Risks Related to Our Content Operating SegmentThe portion of our Content operating segment that is based on applications as part of in-flight entertainment has a limited operating history, which may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and predict our future performance. AIA has developed applications to be used on more sophisticated in-flight entertainment hardware platforms as well as wireless streaming solution to be used on planes without in-flight entertainment hardware. Our application and wireless streaming businesses are still in a ramp up phase and have limited operating history. This makes it difficult for us to accurately evaluate the potential growth and future performance of the application and wireless streaming businesses. Any assessments of our application and wireless streaming services and predictions that we make about future success or viability may not be accurate. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies expanding in new business areas in rapidly changing industries, and the size and nature of our market opportunity will change as we scale our application and wireless streaming businesses.The future financial performance of our Content operating segment may be dependent on our ability to continue to acquire new companies that positively affect our financial performance. Our Content operating segment’s growth both in revenues and profits in the past has been dependent on the ability to execute acquisitions of companies inside or outside of its core industry. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to make additional acquisitions in the future, or that any future acquisitions will have a positive impact on our financial performance. If we are unable to make such acquisitions or if they are not successful from a financial performance perspective, this could have a negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations.We may not accurately predict the profit margins of our Content operating segment with respect to its long term fixed price contracts. 16Table of ContentsIn some cases our Content operating segment has entered into multi-year, fixed-price delivery contracts with producers. These procurement contracts enable us to purchase content that a given studio releases or markets during the term of the contract at a fixed purchase price, or through “flat deals”. Adjustments of the previously agreed upon purchase price might be necessary in certain circumstances if there are significant changes in the customer base of our Content operating segment during the term of a given contract. If we are unable to make such adjustments upon the occurrence of such changes, there is a risk that the profit margins on our flat fee agreements may be smaller than predicted or even a loss, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.AIA is subject to ongoing tax audits that could result in additional tax payments or a reduction in tax loss carryforwards.A comprehensive tax audit by the Canadian tax authorities of AIA’s Canadian subsidiary DTI Software for the tax years 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 is underway. More specifically, the Canadian tax authorities are currently investigating DTI’s tax status in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and whether income derived in Dubai should have been constituted taxable earnings subject to Canadian income tax for the tax year ended December 31, 2008. We estimate the maximum Canadian income tax exposure for the taxable year 2008 is approximately $1.4 million, which includes approximately $0.6 million of potential interest and penalties. We are currently investigating these claims and are not able to estimate the aggregate potential tax liability that could result for subsequent tax years after 2008. If the Canadian tax authorities attempt to assess similar penalties for tax years subsequent to 2008, we may be subject to pay significant historical tax obligations, including penalties and accrued interest. In addition, DTI claims certain tax credit in the course of the development of games and applications in Canada including tax credits that support multimedia, e-commerce and research and development in Canada. It is possible that Canadian tax authorities might come to a different conclusion concerning the respective amount that DTI is able to claim. This could lead to an adjustment of the booked tax credits that could be material to our financial condition.AIA currently make claims for investment tax credits that are available in Canada to support multimedia, e-commerce and research and development in Canada, and any reduction in or elimination of government support for such tax credits would negatively impact our business and results of operations. DTI Software makes claims for currently available tax credits in Canada in the course of its development of games and applications in Canada, including tax credits that support multimedia, e-commerce and research and development in Canada. If governmental authorities in Canada, and, in particular, in the province of Quebec, were to reduce or eliminate the amount of tax credits that are available in respect of these activities by DTI, then our tax liabilities would likely increase, and this would have a negative impact on our overall profitability.On-board use of personal electronic devices may harm our Content operating segment. Ever-increasing numbers of passengers have their own personal electronic devices which they might use to bring their own content such as movies, music or games with them on a flight or to access on-board connectivity to the Internet, live television or content on demand. This could decrease demand for our Content operating segment’s in-flight offerings provided through seatback screens or other fixed on-board screens, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.Many of our Content operating segment’s products will have long sales cycles, which may cause us to expend resources without an acceptable financial return and which makes it difficult to plan our expenses and forecast our revenues. This could have a material adverse effect on our business. Many of our Content operating segment’s products have long sales cycles that involve numerous steps, including initial customer contacts, specification writing, software engineering design, software prototyping, pilot testing, device certification, regulatory approvals (if needed), sales and marketing and commercial manufacture, integration and delivery. During this time, we may expend substantial financial resources and management time and effort without any assurance that product sales will result. The anticipated long sales cycle for some of our Content operating segment’s products makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales may occur. Delays in sales may cause us to expend resources without an acceptable financial return and make it difficult to plan expenses and forecast revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our Content operating segment may not retain or attract customers if we do not develop new products and enhance our current products in response to technological changes and competing products , or if our new or enhanced products do not gain market acceptance. 17Table of ContentsThe in-flight entertainment market is faced with rapid technological change, evolving standards in computer hardware, software development, communications and security infrastructure, and changing needs and expectations of customers. Building new products and service offerings requires significant investment in development. A substantial portion of our Content operating segment’s research and development resources are devoted to maintenance requirements and product upgrades that address new technology support. These demands put significant constraints on the resources that we have available for new product development. We also face uncertainty when we develop or acquire new products for our Content operating segment, because there is no assurance that a sufficient market will develop for those products.We are exposed to foreign currency risks, and our lack of a formal hedging strategy could create losses. Within our Content operating segment, currency risks arise from the fact that both sales to customers and purchasing are largely effected in U.S. dollars, while most of our Content operating segment’s operating companies’ fixed costs are incurred in euros, British pounds and Canadian dollars. At times, we may engage in hedging transactions to counteract direct currency risks. However, we do not have a formal hedging strategy, and cannot always guarantee that all currency risks have been hedged in full. Severe currency fluctuations could also cause the hedging transactions to fail if agreed thresholds (triggers) are not met or exceeded. We therefore cannot fully preclude negative foreign currency effects in the future-some of which might be substantial-due to unforeseen exchange rate fluctuations and/or inaccurate assessments of market developments. There are also intragroup receivables and liabilities in our Content operating segment, such as loans that can generate significant foreign currency effects. Changes in the exchange rates of a number of foreign currencies against the euro, especially the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar, could lead to the recognition of unrealized foreign exchange losses in some cases, particularly as a result of intragroup transactions. Therefore, our Content operating segment is exposed to a heightened currency risk in connection with intragroup borrowing owing to the foreign currency sensitivity in severe and unforeseeable exchange rate movements that are consequently difficult to predict.Our Content operating segment faces intense pricing pressure.Pricing pressures are high in the content market. As a result, we may need to provide significant price concessions in connection with the frequent tenders in which we engage in order to acquire new customers or keep current customers. . This may have a negative adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations.We source our content from studios, distributors and other content providers, and any reduction in the volume of content produced by such content providers could hurt our Content operating segment by providing it with less quality content to choose from and resulting in potentially less attractive offerings for passengers. We receive content from studios, distributors and other content providers, and, in some circumstances, we depend on the volume and quality of the content that these content providers produce. If studios, distributors or other content providers were to reduce the volume or quality of content that they make available to us over any given time period, whether because of their own financial limitations or other factors influencing their businesses, we would have less quality content to choose from, and our programmers would have more difficulty finding relevant and appropriate content to provide to our customers. This could negatively impact the passenger experience, which could, in turn, reduce the demand for our Content operating segment’s offerings, which would have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations.Our revenue may be adversely affected by a reduction or elimination of the time between our receipt of content and the content being made more broadly publicly available to the rental or home viewing market. We receive the content that we provide through our Content operating segment directly from studios, distributors and other content providers, and the timing is at the discretion of the content providers. Historically, we and (prior to the Business Combination) AIA received content prior to such content being more broadly publicly distributed via rental viewing, retail stores or Internet streaming services. If a content provider delays release of certain content in a manner reducing or eliminating this “early window”, our Content operating segment may not be able to generate as much revenue from such content as we could have generated with an earlier release date.The revenue generated by our Content operating segment may be adversely affected by a reduction or elimination of use of our Content operating segment’s services by competitors in the marketplace. A portion of our income is currently generated by the licensing of software and content and by the performance of content processing services for direct competitors, including other content service providers, of our Content operating segment. 18Table of ContentsIf our competitors develop their own software and content acquisition and processing capabilities, our Content operating segment may be materially adversely affected.Risks Related to our Technology, Intellectual Property and Government RegulationOur Connectivity operating segment may suffer service interruptions or delays, technology failures or damage to its equipment. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our commercial airline customers depends, in part, upon the reliable performance of our Connectivity operating segment’s satellite transponder capacity, network infrastructure and connectivity system. The operations and services of our Connectivity operating segment depend upon the extent to which our equipment and the equipment of our third-party network providers is protected against damage from fire, flood, earthquakes, power loss, solar flares, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, break-ins, acts of war or terrorism and similar events. Damage to our networks could cause interruptions in the services that we provide through our Connectivity operating segment, which could have a material adverse effect on our service revenue, our reputation and our ability to attract or retain customers. Row 44 has experienced interruptions in these systems in the past, including component and service failures that temporarily disrupted users’ access to the Internet, and we may experience further service interruptions, service delays or technology or systems failures, which may be due to factors beyond our control. If we experience frequent system or network failures, our reputation could be harmed and our airline customers may have the right to terminate their contracts with us or pursue other remedies, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to attract and retain customers.Assertions by third parties of infringement, misappropriation or other violations by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and operating results. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including the wireless communications industry. Any infringement, misappropriation or related claims, whether or not meritorious, are time-consuming, divert technical and management personnel and are costly to resolve. As a result of any such dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, pay damages, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, cease providing certain products or services or take other actions to resolve the claims. These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. Certain of our suppliers do not provide indemnity to us for the use of the products and services that these providers supply to us. At the same time, we generally offer third party intellectual property infringement indemnity to the customers of our Connectivity operating segment which, in some cases, do not cap our indemnity obligations and thus could render us liable for both defense costs and any judgments. Any of these events could result in increases in our operating expenses, limit our service offerings or result in a loss of business if we are unable to meet our indemnification obligations and our airline customers terminate or fail to renew their contracts.On December 28, 2012, Advanced Media Networks, L.L.C. filed suit in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against Row 44 and one of its customers, which Row 44 has agreed to indemnify for allegedly infringing two of its patents and seeking injunctive relief and unspecified monetary damages. After Row 44 requested reexamination of the patents by the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office, the lawsuit was stayed. The lawsuit remains stayed, and the reexaminations have not concluded. Based on currently available information, the Company believes it has strong defenses. If the patents survive reexamination, the Company intends to defend vigorously against this lawsuit, though the outcome of this matter is inherently uncertain and could have a materially adverse effect on its Connectivity business, financial condition and results of operations. The potential range of loss related to this matter cannot be determined and as a result, no reserve has been established.We are subject to civil litigation involving allegations of copyright infringement, which could result in our having to pay damages. We may also be subject to additional similar litigation in the future. On October 22, 2013, Arista Music, Sony Music Entertainment and certain parties believed to be related to the foregoing filed suit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against In-flight Productions Ltd., or IFP, and one of its customers for copyright infringement and related claims and unspecified money damages. IFP is a direct subsidiary of AIA and an indirect subsidiary of Global Eagle. We intend to vigorously assert available defenses in connection with this matter; however, the outcome is inherently uncertain and, if adverse, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The potential range of loss related to this matter cannot be determined at this time. In addition to this matter, we may in the future be subject to additional similar civil litigation involving copyright infringement, which could result in injunctive relief or our having to pay damages. 19Table of ContentsThe use of open source software in our Connectivity operating segment could limit our ability to commercialize our technology. Open source software is software made widely and freely available to the public in human-readable source code form, usually with liberal rights to modify and improve such software. Some open source licenses require as a condition of use that proprietary software that is combined with licensed open source software and distributed must be released to the public in source code form and under the terms of the applicable open source license. Accordingly, and depending on the manner in which such licenses were interpreted and applied, we could face restrictions on our ability to commercialize certain of the products of our Connectivity operating segment and could be required to (i) release the source code of certain of our proprietary software to the public, including to competitors; (ii) seek licenses from third parties for replacement software; and/or (iii) re-engineer our software in order to continue offering our products. Such consequences could materially adversely affect our business.The failure of our Connectivity operating segment’s equipment or material defects or errors in our software may damage our reputation or result in claims against us that exceed our insurance coverage, thereby requiring us to pay significant damages and impairing our ability to sell our connectivity service. Our Connectivity operating segment’s products contain complex systems and components that could contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology. If any of our connectivity products are defective, we could be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such events could result in significant expenses, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products. If our Connectivity operating segment’s on-board equipment has a severe malfunction, or there is a problem with the equipment installation, which damages an airplane or impairs its on-board electronics or avionics, significant property loss and serious personal injury or death could result. Any such failure could expose us to substantial product liability claims or costly repair obligations. In particular, passenger jets operated by our airline customers are very costly to repair; therefore, the damages in any product liability claims could be material. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover the payment of any claims. A product recall or a product liability claim not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we indemnify most of our airline customers for losses due to third-party claims and, in certain cases, the causes for such losses may include failure of our products.The software underlying our connectivity services is inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when the software is first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects or errors in its software, and defects or errors in our existing software may be detected in the future. Any defects or errors, particularly those that cause interruptions to the availability of our connectivity services could result in:•termination or failure to renew contracts by our airline customers;•a reduction in sales or delay in market acceptance of our connectivity service;•sales credits or refunds to our customers and airline customers;•governmental compliance requirements regarding customer privacy rights;•loss of existing customers and difficulty in attracting new customers;•diversion of development resources;•harm to our reputation and brand image;•increased insurance costs; and•claims for substantial damages.The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our software may be substantial and could harm our results of operations.20Table of ContentsRegulation by United States and foreign government agencies, such as the FAA, which regulates the civil aviation manufacturing and repair industries in the United States, and the FCC, which regulates the U.S. telecommunications industry, may increase our costs of providing service or require us to change our services. Our Connectivity operating segment is subject to various governmental regulations, including those regulations promulgated by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies where we do, or in the future may do, business. The U.S. government agency that has primary regulatory authority over our operations is the FAA. The commercial and private aviation industries, including civil aviation manufacturing and repair industries, are highly regulated by the FAA in the United States. FAA certification is required for all equipment that we install on commercial aircraft, and certain of our operating activities require that we obtain FAA certification as a parts manufacturer. FAA approvals required to operate our Connectivity operating segment include Supplemental Type Certificates, or STCs, and Parts Manufacturing Authority, or PMAs. Obtaining STCs and PMAs is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant focus and resources. Any inability to obtain, delay in obtaining, or change in, needed FAA certifications, authorizations, or approvals, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet the installation commitments of our Connectivity operating segment, manufacture and sell parts for installation on aircraft, or expand our business and could, therefore, materially adversely affect our growth prospects, business and operating results. The FAA closely regulates many of our operations. If we fail to comply with the FAA’s many regulations and standards that apply to our activities, we could lose the FAA certifications, authorizations or other approvals on which the manufacturing, installation, maintenance, preventive maintenance and alteration capabilities of our Connectivity operating segment are based. In addition, from time to time, the FAA may adopt new regulations or amend existing regulations, such as recently promulgated regulations with respect to radome bird strike testing. The FAA could also change its policies regarding the delegation of inspection and certification responsibilities to private companies, which could adversely affect our business. To the extent that any such new regulations or amendments to existing regulations or policies apply to our activities, those new regulations or amendments to existing regulations would generally increase our costs of compliance.In addition to the FAA, we are also subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”). As part of our authorization to commence providing satellite based Wi-Fi connectivity services to aircraft, we obtained a license from the FCC that obligates us to comply with various requirements specifically identified in that license and with the general rules and regulations promulgated by the FCC. In addition, we agreed to cooperate with law enforcement agencies of the U.S. government to address specific concerns regarding providing connectivity to aircraft over the United States. Also, as a broadband Internet provider, we must also comply with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act of 1994, or CALEA, and similar laws in other countries, which require communications carriers to ensure that their equipment, facilities and services can accommodate certain technical capabilities in executing authorized wiretapping and other electronic surveillance. Currently, our CALEA solutions are deployed in our U.S. network and Western European network, but we nevertheless could be subject to an enforcement action by the FCC, other telecommunications regulators or law enforcement agencies for any delays related to meeting any current or future CALEA or similarly mandated law enforcement related obligations. Such enforcement actions could subject us to fines, cease and desist orders or other penalties, all of which could adversely affect our business. Further, to the extent that the FCC adopts additional capability requirements applicable to broadband Internet providers, its decision may increase the costs that we must incur to comply with such regulations.Adverse decisions or regulations of these regulatory bodies could negatively impact our operations and costs of doing business. We are unable to predict the scope, pace or financial impact of regulations and other policy changes that could be adopted by the various governmental entities that oversee portions of our business. Regulation by foreign government agencies may increase our costs of providing service or require us to change our services. Our Connectivity operating segment is subject to regulations promulgated by various regulatory agencies and legislative bodies in foreign jurisdictions where we do, or in the future may do, business. These foreign bodies may require us to obtain certifications for equipment that we install on commercial aircraft, and certain of our operating activities may require that we obtain foreign regulatory certifications as a parts manufacturer. Obtaining these certifications could be an expensive and time-consuming process requiring significant focus and resources. Any inability to obtain, delay in obtaining, or change in, needed certifications, authorizations, or approvals, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet the installation commitments of our Connectivity operating segment, manufacture and sell parts for installation on aircraft, or expand our business and could, therefore, materially adversely affect our growth prospects, business and operating results. Many of our operations are subject to regulation by a number of foreign regulatory agencies in multiple foreign jurisdictions. If we fail to comply with the many foreign regulations and standards that apply to our activities, we could lose the foreign certifications, authorizations or other approvals on which the manufacturing, installation, maintenance, preventive maintenance and alteration capabilities of our Connectivity operating segment are based. In addition, from time to time, the foreign bodies that regulate our 21Table of Contentsactivities may adopt new regulations, amend existing regulations or change their policies, all of which could adversely affect our business. To the extent that any such new regulations or amendments to existing regulations or policies apply to our activities, those new regulations or amendments to existing regulations would generally increase our costs of compliance.If government regulation of the Internet, including e-commerce or online video distribution, changes, we may need to change the way we conduct our Connectivity operating segment to a manner that incurs greater operating expenses, which could harm our results of operations. The current legal environment for Internet communications, products and services is uncertain and subject to statutory, regulatory or interpretive change. Certain laws and regulations applicable to our Connectivity operating segment were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and often do not contemplate or address specific issues associated with those technologies. We cannot be certain that we, our vendors and media partners or our customers are currently in compliance with all applicable regulatory or other legal requirements in all of the countries in which our connectivity service is used. Our failure, or the failure of our vendors and media partners, customers and others with whom we transact business, to comply with existing or future legal or regulatory requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulators may disagree with our interpretations of existing laws or regulations or the applicability of existing laws or regulations to our business, and existing laws, regulations and interpretations may change in unexpected ways. For example, the FCC adopted regulations regarding net neutrality that, in certain situations, limit mobile broadband providers to “network management” techniques that are reasonable; however, the rules were struck down by the D.C. Circuit Court as outside the scope of the FCC’s regulatory authority. Although these rules are no longer in effect, the FCC has indicated it intends to implement similar network management limitations in the future, which, if deemed valid under the FCC’s authority, could adversely impact our ability to monitor and manage the network to optimize our users’ Internet experience. We cannot be certain what positions regulators may take regarding our compliance with, or lack of compliance with, current and future legal and regulatory requirements or what positions regulators may take regarding any past or future actions that Row 44 has taken or we may take in any jurisdiction. Regulators may determine that we are not in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and impose penalties, or we may need to make changes to our connectivity system, which could be costly and difficult. Any of these events would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryOur management has concluded that our disclosure controls are ineffective due to four material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to establish and maintain effective disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired, and the market price of our securities may be negatively affected.In connection with our year-end audit, our management conducted an assessment of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that they were both ineffective, due to the existence of four material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, as described below. See Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013, management identified the following material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting: ••Timely and routine financial statement close/reporting process We were unable to execute a timely financial close, nor were we able to properly accumulate certain analyses and reconciliations in a consistent and accurate manner, which resulted in errors in one or more accounts in the Company’s financial statements and footnotes, which we have subsequently corrected. Throughout the majority of 2013, we were unable to design and implement sufficient monitoring controls over the financial information received from our majority-owned foreign subsidiary, AIA, and its associated consolidation, and therefore the precision to which these controls were designed and the completeness and timeliness of communication from AIA foreign locations to our headquarters in the United States was not sufficient to prevent a potential material misstatement over the same time period. This lack of effective monitoring controls could have a material impact on our significant financial statement accounts during the year ended December 31, 2013. 22Table of Contents•Design, implementation and operating effectiveness of IT General Controls (ITGCs)During 2013, we did not implement and maintain effective IT general controls (“ITGC’s”) over the general ledger systems and other related IT systems we used to process, accumulate and consolidate our accounting transactions. The general ledger systems that we used were not designed to implement and operate effective ITGCs. As a result, we were unable to properly implement and maintain effective controls intended to ensure that access to applications and data, and the ability to place program changes into production for such applications and data, were adequately restricted to appropriate internal personnel, due to the inherent deficiencies in some of these general ledger systems (namely QuickBooks and LucaNet), and to a lesser extent through other related IT systems. As a result, there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement within the classes of transactions dependent on the operation of ITGCs would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The ineffective design and operation of our ITGCs impacts all of our significant financial statement accounts.•Accounting for business combinations When finalizing the preliminary purchase price allocation to the fair value of the assets and liabilities in connection with our acquisitions of AIA and PMG, we did not design adequate controls to review, analyze and test the application of the assumptions in financial information that we provided to our independent third party appraiser, and did not appropriately perform other key internal analyses on our opening balance sheet accounts including the deferred tax impacts on a timely basis,. As a result of these control design deficiencies, we recorded adjustments during the fiscal 2013 year-end financial close impacting goodwill, acquisition date tax balances and uncertain tax positions, identifiable intangibles and related amortization and accrued liabilities. •Accounting for income taxesWe were unable to design and maintain effective internal controls over the accuracy of our accounting for income taxes for our foreign subsidiaries. In particular, and given the number of acquisitions in 2013, the global nature of the AIA business, and the internal control deficiencies within AIA as described above, our processes, procedures and controls around the accounting for our income taxes did not provide adequate timely analysis of the nature, extent and amount of acquisition date tax balances and uncertain tax positions related to foreign entities acquired. This resulted in corrections to the 2013 balance sheet through net adjustments to goodwill and the income tax provision recorded during the fiscal 2013 year-end financial close. For the steps we have taken to remediate these material weaknesses, see Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. We may need to expend significant financial resources to remediate these material weaknesses. Our assessment of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal control over financial reporting of three businesses acquired during the year, AIA, PMG and IFES. If we are unable to establish and maintain proper and effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to produce timely and accurate financial statements. If that were to happen, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our securities could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities.Our business is highly dependent on the airline industry, which itself is affected by many events that are beyond the control of the airlines. The highly competitive nature of the airline industry makes it extremely sensitive to economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. Our business is directly affected by the number of passengers flying on commercial airlines, the financial condition of these airlines and related economic conditions and the general availability of air travel around the world. If consumer demand for air travel declines, or the number of aircraft and flights shrink, or air travel is severely disrupted in a key operating area, the number of passengers available to use our in-flight services and enjoy our delivered content will be reduced, which will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and prospects. High unemployment rates, reduced consumer and business spending, recessionary conditions in the United States or Europe and terrorism are among the general economic and social conditions that adversely affect the airline industry. A general reduction or shift in discretionary spending can result in decreased demand for leisure and business travel and lead to a reduction in the number of airline flights offered, the number of passengers flying and the willingness of airlines to commit to spending funds on items such as our in-flight connectivity system. Each of our airline customers operates in an intensely competitive environment and constantly faces pressure on in-23Table of Contentsflight offerings and pricing of all aspects of air travel. These uncertain and, at times, unfavorable financial circumstances in the air travel industry could cause one or more of our commercial airline customers to reduce expenditures on passenger services, including the deployment of our in-flight connectivity system or content, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and financial condition.If the benefits of any acquisition that we or any of our wholly- or partially-owned subsidiaries consummate do not meet the expectations of the marketplace, investors, financial analysts or industry analysts, our financial condition may be negatively affected and the market price of our securities may decline. On July 10, 2013, we completed our acquisition of PMG. Additionally, and on October 18, 2013, we acquired IFES. We may not realize the expected benefits of one or both of these acquisitions, or any other acquisition that we may consummate in the future as rapidly as, or to the extent anticipated by, the marketplace, investors, financial analysts or industry analysts. Any such failure may have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and stock priceSubsequent to the consummation of any acquisition that we may consummate, we may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment or other charges that may have a negative effect on our financial condition and the market price of our securities. Although we conducted due diligence in connection with the acquisitions of IFES and PMG, we cannot assure you that this diligence revealed all material issues that may be present in IFES’s or PMG’s business, that it would be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary amount of due diligence, or that factors outside of our control will not later arise. As a result, we may be forced to later write down or write off assets, restructure operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in losses. Even if the due diligence that we conducted in connection with acquisitions that we have already consummated or that we consummate in the future successfully identifies certain risks, unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. Any such write-downs, write-offs, restructuring or charges could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and stock price.Additional businesses or technologies we acquire could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our ongoing business, dilute stockholder value or have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition to the recent acquisitions that we have consummated, we may engage in further acquisitions of businesses or technologies to augment our growth. Acquisitions involve challenges and risks in negotiation, execution, valuation and integration. Moreover, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities on terms that are acceptable to us. Even if successfully negotiated, closed and integrated, certain acquisitions may not advance our business strategy, may fall short of expected return-on-investment targets or may fail. In addition to the risks described above, any future acquisition could involve numerous additional risks, including:•potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management;•difficulty integrating the operations and products of the acquired business;•use of cash to fund the acquisition or for unanticipated expenses;•limited market experience in new businesses;•exposure to unknown liabilities, including litigation against the companies that we acquire;•additional costs due to differences in culture, geographical locations and duplication of key talent;•delays associated with or resources being devoted to regulatory review and approval;•acquisition-related accounting charges affecting our balance sheet and operations;24Table of Contents•difficulty integrating the financial results of the acquired business in our consolidated financial statements;•controls in the acquired business;•potential impairment of goodwill;•dilution to our current stockholders from the issuance of equity securities; and•potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company.In the event that we enter into any acquisition agreements, closing of the transactions could be delayed or prevented by regulatory approval requirements, including antitrust review, or other conditions. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any attempted acquisitions, and we could assume the economic risks of such failed or unsuccessful acquisitions.We may be subject to litigation in connection with our plan to acquire the remaining 6% of the shares of AIAIn July 2013, we commenced a process under German law to acquire the remaining 6% of the shares of AIA. In February 2014, we obtained a successful vote to accomplish the purchase of the remaining shares, and we expect to complete the acquisition in the first half of 2014. We may be subject to claims of former stockholders of AIA that the price we paid for their shares of AIA was too low. If former stockholders of AIA commence legal claims against us, we may be required to incur significant expenses defending these claims, which could have a material impact on our financial condition.The failure to implement, as well as the completion and impact of, our reorganization of AIA, PMG and IFES could adversely affect our business. We plan to undertake in 2014 certain corporate realignment and integration efforts in connection with our Content operating segment in order to streamline/improve operating procedures and generate synergies with AIA, PMG and IFES. We expect these corporate realignment activities will involve changes to many aspects of our Content operating segment and will involve complex legal- and tax-related matters. As a result, we may incur substantial costs and expend considerable resources in connection with these activities, which could distract our management negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, these efforts could disrupt our financial close and accounting reporting processes and could result in our discovery of previously unknown tax or other liabilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement this reorganization, which could mean that the costs incurred and resources expended in connection with the reorganization may not yield the results that we anticipate. Even if we do successfully implement the reorganization, we may not realize the benefits that we anticipate from these efforts. We cannot assure you that the reorganization will result in cost savings or will materially increase our profitability. Even if the reorganization generates the benefits that we have anticipated, there may be other unforeseeable and unintended factors or consequences that occur as a result of the reorganization, which could adversely impact our profitability and our business. A future act or threat of terrorism or other events could result in a prohibition on the use of Wi-Fi enabled devices on aircraft. A future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts or other airline accidents could have an adverse effect on the airline industry. In the event of a terrorist attack, terrorist threats or unrelated airline accidents, the industry would likely experience significantly reduced passenger demand. The U.S. federal government could respond to such events by prohibiting the use of Wi-Fi enabled devices on aircraft, which would eliminate demand for our in-flight equipment and services. In addition, any association or perceived association between our equipment or services and accidents involving aircraft on which our equipment or services operate would likely have an adverse effect on demand for our services. Reduced demand for our products and services would adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations.We may not be able to grow our business with our current airline customers or successfully secure new airline customers in the future, on favorable terms or at all.25Table of ContentsWe are currently in negotiations and discussions to provide our services to a number of commercial airlines around the world, and we are constantly in negotiations and discussions with existing airline customers and potential new airline customers to either maintain or expand an existing contract or win a new contract. Negotiations with airline customers require a substantial amount of time, energy and resources, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining existing customers or winning new customers. If any of our current airline customers or potential new airline customers do not view our product and service offerings as high-quality or cost-effective, or if we do not keep pace with innovation, our current and potential customers may choose to do business with our competitors. Unreliable service levels, uncompetitive pricing, lack of availability, security risk and lack of related features of our equipment and services are some of the factors that may adversely impact our ability to retain existing customers and partners and attract new and repeat customers. If consumers are able to satisfy their in-flight entertainment needs through activities other than broadband Internet access, at no or lower cost, they may not perceive value in our products and services.Additionally, the terms of any future agreements with existing or new airline customers may be less favorable than the current agreements. We may ultimately fail in entering into agreements with additional commercial airlines on competitive terms, and that failure could harm our results of operations due to a diversion of resources, the actual costs of pursuing these opportunities and the inability to deploy committed satellite transponder space segments to additional airlines. To the extent that we are unable to secure new airline customers or that any of our future agreements with existing or new customers are not as favorable as our existing arrangements, our growth and financial prospects would be materially and adversely affected.Increased costs and other demands associated with the growth of our business could impact our ability to achieve profitability over the long term and could strain our personnel, technology and infrastructure resources. Anticipated future growth, including growth related to the broadening of our service offerings and international expansion of our business into new markets, could require the outlay of significant operating and capital expenditures and could place strains on our personnel, technology and infrastructure. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to contain costs with respect to growth opportunities. To successfully manage the expected growth of our operations in a timely and cost-effective manner, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial, technological and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. In addition, as we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees and must maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. If we fail to successfully manage the growth of our business, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Competition from a number of companies could result in price reduction, reduced revenue and a loss of market share, all of which could harm our results of operations. In-flight entertainment is undergoing a sea change driven, first and foremost, by technical innovations. We face competition from land-based providers of broadband Wi-Fi services to commercial airlines and from other satellite-based broadband providers of Internet connectivity, live television, video on-demand services and content. In recent years, a number of new vendors have emerged with new technologies and new approaches, especially for the hardware systems that are built into aircraft. Competition from such providers has affected the prospects of our business and will continue to do so in the future, especially given the fact that there are a limited number of commercial airlines around the world. Some of our competitors are larger, more diversified companies with greater financial, marketing, production and research and development resources. As a result, these competitors may be better positioned to withstand the effects of periodic economic downturns, especially those that continue for extended periods of time. Competition within the in-flight broadband Internet access and in-cabin entertainment markets may also subject us to downward pricing pressures on our service and product offerings. Competition will likely increase our sales and marketing expenses and related customer acquisition costs. We may not have the liquidity, financial resources, technical expertise or marketing and support capabilities to compete successfully. Our failure to respond to established and new competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We may fail to recruit, train and retain the highly skilled employees that are necessary to remain competitive and execute the growth strategy of our business. The loss of one or more of our key personnel could harm our business. Competition for key technical personnel in high-technology industries is intense. We believe that the future success of our business depends in large part on our continued ability to hire, train, retain and leverage the skills of qualified engineers and other highly skilled personnel needed to maintain and grow our satellite based broadband connectivity network and our Content operating segment. We may not be as successful as our competitors at recruiting, training, retaining and utilizing these highly skilled personnel. In particular, we may have more difficulty attracting or retaining highly skilled personnel during periods of poor operating performance. In addition, because of the widespread geographical locations of our business, we have a risk of migration of employees and poor retention rate. We may also encounter challenges in complying with foreign employment laws 26Table of Contentsand regulations in our many international locations. Any failure to recruit, train and retain highly skilled employees or any failure to comply with applicable foreign employment laws and regulations could negatively impact our business and results of operations.Our business depends on the continued service and performance of key personnel. Such individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to our segments and their operations. As a result, if any of these individuals were to leave, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss of productivity while any such successor obtains the necessary training and expertise. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of our officers or key employees. In addition, much of our key technology and systems are custom-made for our business by our personnel. The loss of key personnel, including key members of our management team, as well as certain of our key marketing or technology personnel, could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business.Our corporate structure may create tax inefficiencies.As a result of the Business Combination, AIA is a majority-owned subsidiary of the Company and thus a controlled foreign corporation of the Company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This organizational structure may create inefficiencies, as certain types of income and investments of AIA that otherwise would not be currently taxable under general tax principles, may become taxable. In addition, distributions from the operating subsidiaries of AIA may be subject to additional withholding tax and result in lower profits. It is our intention to streamline our corporate structure and, by doing so, certain transactions in the restructuring could be taxable in the United States and Germany. We cannot presently predict the impact such restructuring may have on U.S. and foreign tax liability. Our management team may invest or spend the proceeds of any financing that we complete in ways with which you may not agree or in ways which may not yield a significant return. We have consummated two recent public offerings of our stock, resulting in aggregate proceeds, before expenses, to us of approximately $204.3 million. Our management has broad discretion over the use of proceeds from these offerings and will have broad discretion over the use of proceeds from any financing that we may complete in the future. We cannot guarantee that the net proceeds from any financing that we have completed or will complete in the future will be used for corporate purposes that increase our operating results or enhance the value of our common stock.Risks Related to Our SecuritiesConcentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. As of March 1, 2014, PAR beneficially owned approximately 17.6% and Harry E. Sloan beneficially owned approximately 14.2% of our outstanding shares of common stock with voting power. These percentages exclude 3,053,634 shares of our common stock issued pursuant to the Row 44 Merger to AIA, which became our majority-owned subsidiary after the consummation of the Business Combination, and which shares therefore are not considered outstanding. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, have the ability to influence the outcome of corporate actions of the Company requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Future sales of our common stock may cause the market price of our securities to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. In connection with our public offering of common stock completed in December 2013, our directors and officers and certain of our significant stockholders, including PAR and Putnam, entered into lock-up agreements that expired on March 24, 2014 , unless extended pursuant to the terms of such lock-up agreements. Upon the expiration of the lock-up period, these stockholders will have the ability to sell large amounts of our stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, which could have the effect of increasing the volatility in our stock price or putting significant downward pressure on the price of our stock.The market price of our securities may be volatile and may decline as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control.The trading price of our securities could be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Any of the factors listed below could have a material adverse effect on an investment in 27Table of Contentsour securities, and our securities may trade at prices significantly below the price that you paid for them. In such circumstances, the trading price of our securities may not recover and may experience a further decline.Factors affecting the trading price of our securities may include:•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us;•changes in the market’s expectations about our operating results;•success of competitors;•our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period;•changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning the Company, the market for in-flight entertainment, the airline industry, or the travel market in general;•operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;•our ability to market new and enhanced products on a timely basis;•changes in laws and regulations affecting our business or our industry;•commencement of, or involvement in, litigation involving the Company;•changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt;•the volume of shares of our common stock available for public sale;•any major change in our board or management;•sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur; and•general economic and political conditions such as recessions, interest rates, fuel prices, international currency fluctuations and acts of war or terrorism. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our securities irrespective of our operating performance. The stock market in general, and Nasdaq in particular, have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the particular companies affected. The trading prices and valuations of these stocks, and of our securities, may not be predictable. A loss of investor confidence in the market for retail stocks or the stocks of other companies which investors perceive to be similar to us could depress our stock price regardless of our business, prospects, financial conditions or results of operations. A decline in the market price of our securities also could adversely affect our ability to issue additional securities and our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.Warrants currently exercisable for our common stock could significantly increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders. Outstanding warrants purchasing an aggregate of 15,571,050 shares of our common stock are exercisable for a like number of shares of our common stock. The exercise price of these warrants is $11.50 per share. To the extent that such warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to the holders of common stock of the Company and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to warrant holders, thereby making your warrants worthless.28Table of ContentsWe have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants at any time prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of the common stock equals or exceeds $17.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading-day period ending on the third trading day prior to proper notice of such redemption, provided that on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time that we redeem the warrants, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is available. A registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants was declared effective by the SEC on August 22, 2013. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Redemption of the outstanding warrants could force you (i) to exercise your warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for you to do so, (ii) to sell your warrants at the then-current market price when you might otherwise wish to hold your warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of your warrants. None of the Sponsor Warrants will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by members of the Sponsor or its permitted transferees.We may amend the terms of our outstanding warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders with the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding warrants sold as part of the units in our initial public offering.Our warrants were issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between American Transfer & Stock Company, LLC, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding warrants sold as part of the units in our initial public offering to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding warrants sold as part of the units in our initial public offering approve of such amendment. Although our ability to amend the terms of the warrants with the consent of at least 65% of the then outstanding warrants is unlimited, examples of such amendments could be amendments to, among other things, increase the exercise price of the warrants, shorten the exercise period or decrease the number of shares of our common stock purchasable upon exercise of a warrant.If securities or industry analysts cease publishing research or reports about the Company, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the price and trading volume of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors. If insufficient securities or industry analysts cover us, our stock price and trading volume would likely be negatively impacted. If any of the analysts covering us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. If any analyst who covers us were to cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include:•a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors;•no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;•the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;29Table of Contents•the ability of our board of directors to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;•a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;•the requirement that an annual meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors;•limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers;•controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of stockholder meetings;•providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings of stockholders and to cancel previously scheduled annual meetings of stockholders;•providing that directors may be removed prior to the expiration of their terms by stockholders only for cause; and•advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company.These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of the Company or changes in our management.As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the DGCL, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of the Company’s outstanding common stock. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.We may issue additional equity or convertible debt securities in the future, which may result in additional dilution to investors. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, we issued 44,899,018 shares of our capital stock in connection with the Business Combination, 16,225,206 shares of our common stock in connection with certain equity financings, 898,082 shares of our common stock in exchange for outstanding warrants, as well as additional shares of common stock pursuant to awards made under our equity incentive plan. As a result of these issuances, there was dilution to our then existing shareholders. In addition, to the extent that we need to raise additional capital in the future and we issue additional shares of common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable for our common stock, our then existing stockholders may experience dilution and the new securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock offered.Lack of dividends may make our stock less attractive as an investment. We intend to retain all future earnings for use in the development of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our stockholders may have to sell some or all of their common stock in order to generate cash flow from their investment. Our stockholders may not receive a gain on their investment when they sell their common stock and may lose some or the entire amount of their investment. In addition, stocks that pay regular dividends command higher market trading prices, and so our stock price may be lower as a result of our dividend policy. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our financial condition, operating results, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited. 30Table of ContentsOur business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds through the issuance of new equity securities, debt or a combination of both. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our capital requirements. If we issue new debt securities, the debt holders would have rights senior to stockholders to make claims on our assets, and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. If we issue additional equity securities, existing stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future securities offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest. We are able to issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our shareholders. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividends, liquidation rights or voting rights. If we issue preferred stock, it may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may issue additional equity or convertible debt securities in the future, which may result in additional dilution to investors. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, we issued an aggregate of 44,899,018 shares of our capital stock in connection with the Business Combination, 16,225,206 shares of our common stock in connection with certain equity financings, 898,082 shares of our common stock in exchange for outstanding warrants, as well as additional shares of common stock pursuant to awards made under our equity incentive plan. As a result of these issuances, there was dilution to our then existing shareholders. In addition, to the extent that we need to raise additional capital in the future and we issue additional shares of common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable for our common stock, our then existing stockholders may experience dilution and the new securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock offered. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNot Applicable