ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS An investment in our ordinary shares involves significant risks. We describe below the principal risks and uncertainties that we believe affect us or could affect us in the future. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or that we currently deem immaterial may also negatively affect our business operations. You should carefully read and consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this prospectus, before you decide to invest in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, our ability to pay dividends in the future may be adversely affected, the value of our ordinary shares could significantly decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Because we are a newly formed company, the historical financial and operating data presented in this filing may not be representative of our future results. We are a new company and have limited historical operating results. In preparing our business and economic model, we made a number of assumptions about future revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities relating to the Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights. We based these assumptions, in part, on the historical financial and operating data relating to the Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights while they were owned by Ocwen which may not be indicative of the results we will be able to achieve in the future. Historical financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance. We may not be able to obtain the Required Third Party Consents necessary to transfer legal ownership of any acquired mortgage servicing rights to us. Generally, most pooling and servicing agreements require the consent of various parties, including the rating agencies, the trustees of the related securitization trusts, the sponsors of the securitization transactions, any master servicer or any bond insurers or other credit enhancers insuring the mortgage-backed securities issued by the securitization trusts, prior to the transfer of legal ownership of the related mortgage servicing rights. In connection with our Initial Acquisition some but not all of the rating agencies indicated that they would issue a statement that the transfer to us of legal ownership of the mortgage servicing rights purchased would not result in a downgrade to the rating of the related mortgage-backed securities. Additionally, we have not received all of the other Required Third Party Consents in connection with mortgage servicing rights purchased by us. Until we receive the Required Third Party Consents and legal ownership of the mortgage servicing rights is transferred to us, we are subject to increased risks as a result of Ocwen continuing to own the mortgage servicing rights, including the risks relating to the potential of Ocwen filing for bankruptcy or being terminated as servicer. There is no assurance that we will receive the Required Third Party Consents required for the Company to become the named servicer in the future. We may not be able to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. We intend to declare and pay regular cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We intend to distribute at least 90% of our net income over time to our shareholders on a monthly basis, although we are not required by law to do so. Our Board of Directors has the right to rescind any declared, but unpaid dividends at any time prior to the applicable dividend payment date. While we intend to continue to pay monthly dividends at the current rate, we may not be able to do so in the future. Our dividend policy is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend, among other things, on cash available for distributions, general economic and business conditions, our strategic plans and prospects, our financial results and condition, contractual, legal and regulatory restrictions on the declaration and payment of dividends by us and such other factors as our Board of Directors considers to be relevant. We are highly dependent upon our senior management team. Our business model and the execution of our business strategy are highly dependent upon the members of our senior management team. The loss of the services of any of our senior executives or key employees could delay or prevent us from executing our business strategy and could significantly and negatively affect our business. Our senior management team will also devote a portion of its time to performing certain functions for Ocwen pursuant to the Ocwen Professional Services Agreement. This will detract from the amount of time these executives have available to focus on our business. 13 Table of Contents In the future, we may need to hire additional personnel to meet the demands of our business and the number of available, qualified personnel in the mortgage servicing industry may be limited, and the lack of qualified personnel may delay our ability to execute our business model as planned. Future economic slowdowns and/or deterioration of the housing market could increase delinquencies and defaults on the mortgage loans underlying the mortgage servicing rights we acquire which would negatively affect our operating results. The residential mortgage market in the United States has experienced a variety of difficulties as economic conditions have been challenging and housing prices in many parts of the United States have declined. Any new or increased economic challenges or further declines in home prices could result in increased delinquencies or defaults on the mortgage loans underlying the mortgage servicing rights we acquire. During any period in which the borrower is not making payments on a mortgage loan, the servicer is generally required to advance its funds to meet contractual principal and interest remittance requirements for the securitization trust that owns the mortgage loans, pay property taxes and insurance premiums, process foreclosures and maintain, repair and market foreclosed real estate properties. If the economy slows and/or the housing market deteriorates further, our operating results would be adversely affected in the following ways: Interest Income and Servicing fee revenue. Because we will recognize interest income and, if and when legal title to any mortgage servicing right is transferred to us, servicing fee revenue as principal and interest payments are collected from the borrowers on the mortgage loans underlying our Mortgage Servicing Assets and as delinquent loans are resolved, an increase in delinquencies would reduce the interest income and servicing fee revenue that we recognize. Expenses. If the ratio of advances to the unpaid principal balance of our portfolio increases beyond a certain point, the increase in interest expense could exceed the reduction in our incentive fee paid to Ocwen, thus resulting in a reduction to our profitability. Valuation of Mortgage Servicing Assets. Defaults on mortgage loans will decrease the value of the associated notes receivable and Mortgage Servicing Assets. In addition, future default rates that exceed current estimates may result in higher amortization and a reduction in the value of our Mortgage Servicing Assets such that interest income or servicing fee revenue may decline and amortization and interest expense may increase. A significant increase in prepayment speeds would reduce the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage loans underlying our Mortgage Servicing Assets and could adversely affect our operating results. Prepayment speeds significantly affect our business. Prepayment speed is the measurement of how quickly borrowers pay down the unpaid principal balance of their loans or how quickly loans are otherwise brought current, modified, liquidated or charged off. Prepayment speeds which are presently driven primarily by involuntary liquidations of subprime and Alt-A mortgage loans, have a significant impact on our servicing fees, our expenses and the valuation of our Mortgage Servicing Assets as follows: Servicing Fees. If prepayment speeds increase, our servicing fees will decline more rapidly than estimated because of the greater than expected decrease in the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage loans on which servicing fees are based. Expenses. An increase in prepayment speeds will lead to increased UPB runoff and thus increased amortization expense. 14 Table of Contents Valuation of Mortgage Servicing Assets. We base the price we pay for Mortgage Servicing Assets on, among other things, our projection of the cash flows from the related pool of mortgage loans. Our expectation of prepayment speeds is a significant assumption underlying those cash flow projections. If prepayment speeds are significantly greater than expected, the fair value of our Mortgage Servicing Assets could decline faster than expected which would have a negative impact on our operating results. If we are unable to maintain the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage loans underlying our Mortgage Servicing Assets at an adequate level through the acquisition of additional Mortgage Servicing Assets or acquire other assets with similar characteristics, we would likely reevaluate our long-term business strategy. One possible outcome would be to sell our remaining Mortgage Servicing Assets and use the proceeds to pay a liquidating distribution to our shareholders. In any such event, our shareholders may not be able to recover the full value of their investment in our ordinary shares. We may not be able to successfully compete for the acquisition of mortgage servicing rights which could adversely affect our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to acquire additional mortgage servicing rights on terms consistent with our business and economic model. We expect to compete with independent mortgage loan servicers, REITs, private equity firms, hedge funds and other large financial services companies in acquiring additional mortgage servicing rights. Many of our anticipated competitors are significantly larger than we are, have access to greater capital and other resources, are capable of financing servicing advances at a lower interest rate and may have other advantages over us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments which could lead them to offer higher prices to Ocwen and other servicers than we would be willing to pay for these assets. If we are unable to compete for new assets and the unpaid principal balance of or mortgage portfolio declines over time, this may cause our administrative expense to increase relative to our equity base. Our assumptions in determining the purchase price for Mortgage Servicing Assets may be inaccurate or the basis for such assumptions may change which could adversely affect our results of operations. To the extent that we purchase Mortgage Servicing Assets in the future, our success will be highly dependent upon accurate pricing of such Mortgage Servicing Assets. In determining the purchase price for Mortgage Servicing Assets, we will make assumptions regarding the following: • the rates of prepayment and repayment of the underlying mortgage loans; • amount of future servicing advances; • projected rates of delinquencies and defaults; • future interest rates; and • the costs associated with engaging subservicers to service the loans. If any of our assumptions regarding the Mortgage Servicing Assets that we acquire are inaccurate or the basis for such assumptions change, the price we pay to acquire Mortgage Servicing Assets may prove to be too high. This could result in lower than expected profitability or a loss. We do not intend to obtain an opinion from an independent valuation firm of the fairness from a financial point of view of the price of any future acquisitions. 15 Table of Contents We do not intend to operate a mortgage servicing platform and will need to engage subservicers to service the mortgage loans underlying any mortgage servicing rights we ultimately acquire. We may not be able to engage subservicers on terms that are favorable to us or at all. We do not intend to operate a mortgage servicing platform. Our success will depend on our ability to enter into subservicing agreements with high-quality mortgage servicers, like Ocwen, to service the mortgage loans underlying any mortgage servicing rights we ultimately acquire. The terms of any subservicing agreement will be negotiated with the subservicer prior to the acquisition of the related mortgage servicing rights. It is unlikely that the term of any subservicing agreement we enter into will match the life of any mortgage servicing rights that we ultimately acquire and therefore will need to be renewed. As a result, the terms of any new subservicing agreement or renewal will depend on the economic environment and the costs of providing subservicing at that time. In addition, the terms of any future subservicing agreements, including those we enter into with Ocwen, may not be similar to the terms of the Subservicing Agreement. We may be unable to obtain sufficient servicer advance financing necessary to meet the financing requirements of our business which could adversely affect our liquidity position and results in a loss of servicing rights. If delinquencies increase with respect to the mortgage loans underlying our Mortgage Servicing Assets, we will require more funding than we currently expect which may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. We currently meet our servicing advance financing requirements through the servicing advance facility. Under normal market conditions, mortgage servicers typically have been able to renew or refinance liquidity facilities for mortgage servicing rights. However, during the economic crisis that began in 2007, there were periods of time when some mortgage servicers were unable to renew these facilities. Borrowing conditions have improved since that time; however, market conditions at the time of any renewal or refinancing may not enable us to renew or refinance our advance financing facilities or obtain additional facilities on favorable terms or at all. Ocwen will not have any obligation to us to fund any servicing advances that we are required to purchase or fund. Our inability to obtain adequate financing to fund servicing advances would result in the termination of our mortgage servicing rights under the applicable pooling and servicing agreements or the loss of our Rights to MSRs pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, as applicable. If, for this reason, our mortgage servicing rights or Rights to MSRs are terminated or lost, as applicable, we will bear the full economic impact of this termination or loss without the right to seek indemnification from Ocwen. If our assumptions regarding subprime and Alt-A borrower refinancing options prove incorrect, or if the Federal government implements policies that help non-agency borrowers refinance, the unpaid principal balance underlying our Mortgage Servicing Assets could decline faster than expected which would adversely affect our operating results. In preparing our business and economic model, we made a number of assumptions about future servicing fees, expenses, assets and liabilities relating to our Mortgage Servicing Assets. These assumptions were based on our view that subprime and Alt-A borrowers would have limited refinancing options. Refinancings, also known as voluntary prepayments, are a small component of total prepayments with involuntary prepayments and liquidations being the larger component. If subprime and Alt-A borrowers were able to refinance their mortgage loans at a faster rate than expected and had a financial incentive to do so, prepayment speeds could increase, resulting in a faster amortization of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of the underlying mortgage loans, adversely affecting our operating results. 16 Table of Contents Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating the risks associated with changes in interest rates. Although we have executed a hedging strategy aimed at neutralizing our net exposure to interest rate increases on our floating rate match funded liabilities and intend to continue to do so, no hedging strategy can completely protect us. Any significant change in interest rates could result in a significant margin call which would require us to provide the counterparty with additional cash collateral. Any such margin call, or any decline in interest rates that results in the diminution in value of our hedges, could harm our liquidity, profitability, financial condition and business prospects. If Ocwen or we are named in legal proceedings involving mortgage servicers, our financial results could be adversely affected. Ocwen has informed us that it has received a Civil Investigative Demand (“CID”) from the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”), requesting documents and information concerning various loan servicing activities. Recently Ocwen was informed that this CID had been referred to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a new federal entity responsible for administering and enforcing the laws and regulations for consumer financial products and services, such as residential mortgage loans. In addition, a coalition of state attorneys general is conducting an industry-wide investigation into certain acts and practices concerning the mortgage foreclosure process, and Ocwen has received a request from the Multi-State Mortgage Committee of the Conference of State Bank Supervisors (“MMC”) to provide information and data relating to its loan servicing portfolio, including loan count and volume data, loan modifications, fees assessed, delinquencies, short sales, loan-to-value data and rating agency reports. The MMC also requested that Ocwen indicate its position on the servicing standards and consumer relief provisions contained in the National Mortgage Settlement recently executed by five large bank servicers. The FTC, the CFPB and such attorneys general have not taken any action against Ocwen, but it is possible that Ocwen could receive notifications of alleged wrongdoing or be named as a defendant with respect to these matters or other litigation and regulatory matters. We could be added as a defendant or investigated in any of these matters. If lawsuits are brought against Ocwen regarding its servicing practices relating to our mortgage servicing rights we also may be added as a defendant in the future. Defending ourselves against lawsuits or adverse legal judgments against us may require that we pay significant legal fees, settlement costs, damages, penalties or other charges, or undertake remedial actions pursuant to administrative orders or court-issued injunctions, any of which could adversely affect our financial results. We are dependent on Ocwen to act as a servicer with respect to the mortgage loans underlying the Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights. We are dependent on Ocwen to service the mortgage loans underlying the Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights until such time, if at all, as legal ownership of the Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights are transferred to us. A failure of Ocwen to perform its servicing obligations under a related pooling and servicing agreement could result in the termination of Ocwen as servicer. If this occurs, we will only have recourse against Ocwen, and if Ocwen is unable to make any applicable indemnification payments owed to us, we could lose the entire value of the related Rights to MSRs. Failure by Ocwen to comply with applicable laws and regulations may adversely affect our business. The failure of Ocwen to comply with these laws and regulations in connection with servicing mortgage loans underlying our mortgage servicing rights could possibly lead to civil and criminal liability, loss of licensing, damage to our reputation, fines and penalties, and litigation including class action lawsuits or administrative enforcement actions. Failure by Ocwen to ensure that servicing advances comply with the terms of the pooling and servicing agreements may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Servicing advances that are improperly made may not be eligible for financing under an advance financing facility and may not be reimbursable by the related securitization trust or other owner of the mortgage loan which would reduce our liquidity and may cause us to suffer a loss. 17 Table of Contents If we have to replace Ocwen, we may not be able to find a suitable replacement at similar terms, and there could be degradation in servicing results which could adversely affect our financial results. If for any reason Ocwen is no longer able to act as subservicer for us with respect to mortgage servicing rights that we have acquired, or if we decide to require Ocwen to transfer their mortgage servicing rights to a successor servicer after the occurrence of an event of default under the Purchase Agreement, we will need to find a replacement subservicer. Although there are other entities that may be willing to act as subservicer for us, they may not be of the same quality as Ocwen, or they may not be willing to act on the same economic terms as Ocwen. Even if we retain an entity of equal quality and on the same economic terms, there is typically a temporary degradation in the quality of servicing when the servicing of a mortgage loan is transitioned from one subservicer to another. As a result, if we have to replace Ocwen, our operating results could be adversely affected. If Ocwen fails to adequately perform its loss mitigation obligations, we could be required to make additional servicing advances, and the time period for collecting servicing advances may extend, adversely affecting our liquidity and earnings. Ocwen and any future subservicers that we engage will be required to service the mortgage loans in accordance with specified standards and employ loss mitigation techniques to reduce the probability that borrowers will default on their loans and to minimize losses when defaults occur. These loss mitigation techniques may include the modification of mortgage loan rates, principal balances and maturities. If Ocwen or future subservicers fail to adequately perform their loss mitigation obligations under these agreements, we could be required to purchase or fund servicing advances in excess of those that we might otherwise have had to purchase or fund, and the time period for collecting servicing advances may extend. Any increase in servicing advances or material increase in the time to resolution of a defaulted loan could result in increased financing costs to us and adversely affect our liquidity and net income. A downgrade in Ocwen’s servicer rating could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch rate many mortgage servicers, including Ocwen. These ratings are subject to change in the future without notice. Servicer ratings are important to our ability to finance servicing advances. In addition, some pooling and servicing agreements may also require that the servicer or subservicer maintain specified servicer ratings. The failure to maintain the specified rating may cause the termination of the servicer under such pooling and servicing agreements. Any such downgrade could have an adverse effect on our business, financing activities, financial condition or results of operations. If we are required to register under the Investment Company Act, our ability to conduct our business could be materially adversely affected, and you could suffer losses. We are not registered, and do not intend to register, as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”). We intend to conduct our operations directly and through wholly or majority-owned operating subsidiaries so that we and each of our subsidiaries is not an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We believe that neither we nor our operating subsidiaries will be considered an investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act because neither we nor our operating subsidiaries will engage primarily, or hold ourselves or our operating subsidiaries out as being engaged primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Rather, we, through our operating subsidiaries, are primarily engaged in the non-investment company business of these subsidiaries, namely the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgage servicing rights, Rights to MSRs and associated servicing advances and engaging and managing one or more high-quality residential mortgage loan servicers to service the pools of mortgage loans underlying the mortgage servicing rights. We have structured the special purpose entities that we establish in connection with match funded advance financing facilities to rely on the investment company exemption provided to certain structured financing vehicles by Rule 3a-7 promulgated pursuant to the Investment Company Act. 18 Table of Contents If, however, we or any of our subsidiaries are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements, and our activities may be restricted, among other things which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. For example, because affiliate transactions are generally prohibited under the Investment Company Act, we would not be able to enter into transactions with any of our affiliates if we are required to register as an investment company, and we may be required to terminate the Purchase Agreement, the Subservicing Agreement, the Ocwen Professional Servicing Agreement, the Altisource Administrative Services Agreement and any other agreements with affiliates and forgo opportunities to purchase additional Rights to MSRs from Ocwen as currently contemplated. If we or one of our subsidiaries were deemed to be an investment company, we may seek to modify our agreements with Ocwen to achieve relief but Ocwen may not agree, and this strategy may not be successful. We may also seek exemptive relief from the SEC which could impose significant costs on our business. If we or any of our subsidiaries were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, the unregistered entity would be prohibited from engaging in business and criminal and civil actions could be brought against such unregistered entity. In addition, the contracts of such unregistered entity would be unenforceable unless a court required enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of such unregistered entity and liquidate the unregistered entity which could lead to losses to our shareholders. We could have conflicts of interest with Ocwen, and our officers and directors also could have conflicts of interest due to their relationships with us and Ocwen that could be resolved in a manner adverse to us. We have entered into various agreements with subsidiaries of Ocwen, and we intend to enter into further agreements with Ocwen or its subsidiaries in the future. Certain of our executive officers and directors may have conflicts of interest with respect to such agreements and other matters due to their past and/or current relationships with Ocwen. William C. Erbey, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, is the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ocwen and is the beneficial owner of approximately 13.1% of Ocwen’s common stock as of December 31, 2012. Richard Delgado, who is our Treasurer, owns 12,291 shares of Ocwen common stock. In addition, in connection with their resignation from their positions at Ocwen at the time of the closing of our IPO, the Ocwen Board of Directors extended the post-termination exercise period of options to purchase 625,000 shares of Ocwen common stock held by Mr. Van Vlack, of which 460,000 shares are unexercised, 30,098 shares of Ocwen common stock held by Mr. Delgado and 20,000 shares of Ocwen common stock held by Michael J. McElroy, who is our General Counsel, so that the options may be exercised during the original term of the option, subject to any existing vesting schedules of those options. The options would otherwise have expired following the date of such officers’ resignation from Ocwen. This ownership of Ocwen common stock and options to purchase Ocwen common stock could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when our Board of Directors or our executive officers are faced with decisions that involve Ocwen. We will seek to manage these potential conflicts through oversight by the independent members of our Board of Directors. Such measures may not be effective, and we may not be able to resolve all conflicts with Ocwen. In addition, the resolution of any such conflicts may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated third party. We could have conflicts with Altisource that could be resolved in a manner adverse to us. We have entered into an administrative services agreement with Altisource and lease office space in the United States from Altisource. Certain of our executive officers and directors may be subject to conflicts of interest with respect to such agreements and other matters due to their past and/or current relationships with Altisource. William C. Erbey, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, is the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Altisource and is the beneficial owner of approximately 23% of Altisource’s common stock as of December 31, 2012. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain the Required Third Party Consents necessary to transfer legal ownership of any acquired mortgage servicing rights to us. Until we receive the Required Third Party Consents and legal ownership of the mortgage servicing rights is transferred to us, we are subject to increased risks as a result of Ocwen continuing to own the mortgage servicing rights, including the risks relating to the potential of Ocwen filing for bankruptcy or being terminated as servicer. See below under “—A bankruptcy of Ocwen could adversely affect our business.” Although we are pursuing, and will continue to pursue, the Required Third Party Consents, we may not be able to obtain all the Required Third Party Consents in a timely manner or at all. A bankruptcy of Ocwen could adversely affect our business. If Ocwen becomes subject to a bankruptcy proceeding, our business could be materially adversely affected, and you could suffer losses. The validity or priority of our security interest in the Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights could be challenged in a bankruptcy proceeding of Ocwen, and the Purchase Agreement could be rejected in such proceeding. Ocwen’s obligations under the Purchase Agreement with respect to the Rights to MSRs is secured by a security interest in the related Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights and the proceeds of the related Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights. We have undertaken all requirements under applicable law to properly create and perfect such a security interest with respect to the Rights to MSRs that we have purchased to date, including pledging the collateral in the Purchase Agreement and filing financing statements in appropriate jurisdictions and will undertake to properly create and perfect security interests in any additional Rights to MSRs that we may purchase from Ocwen in the future. Nonetheless, our security interest may be ruled unenforceable or ineffective by a bankruptcy court. If Ocwen were to file, or to become the subject of, a bankruptcy proceeding under the United States Bankruptcy Code or similar state insolvency laws, during the period of time prior to the transfer of the Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights to us, Ocwen (as debtor-in-possession in the bankruptcy proceeding) or the bankruptcy trustee could reject the Purchase Agreement and attempt to stop payments to us of the servicing or other related fees with respect to the Rights to MSRs and terminate our right to acquire those Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights that we have not already acquired. In the event the security interest is declared unenforceable or ineffective, we would be subject to the risk that our claim for any damages from the rejection of the Purchase Agreement or the failure to pay us the servicing or other related fees with respect to the Rights to MSRs would be treated as a general unsecured claim for purposes of distributions from Ocwen’s bankruptcy estate. In addition, even if the security interest is found to be valid and enforceable, if a bankruptcy court determines that the value of the collateral exceeds the underlying obligation to us, then Ocwen (as debtor-in-possession in the bankruptcy proceeding) or the bankruptcy trustee would have the power (with the approval of the bankruptcy court) to modify the terms of the payment obligations to us, to substitute collateral securing the security interest or to reduce the collateral securing the security interest to a lesser amount deemed “adequate” to secure payment of our claim. Payments made by Ocwen to us could be avoided by a court under federal or state preference laws. If Ocwen were to file, or to become the subject of, a bankruptcy proceeding under the United States Bankruptcy Code or similar state insolvency laws, and our security interest is declared unenforceable or ineffective, payments previously made by Ocwen to us pursuant to the Purchase Agreement may be recoverable on behalf of the bankruptcy estate as preferential transfers. A payment could constitute a preferential transfer if a court were to find that the payment was a transfer of an interest of property of Ocwen that: • was made to or for the benefit of a creditor; • was for or on account of an antecedent debt owed by Ocwen before that transfer was made; • was made while Ocwen was insolvent (a company is presumed to have been insolvent on and during the 90 days preceding the date the company’s bankruptcy petition was filed); 20 Table of Contents • was made on or within 90 days (or if we are determined to be a statutory insider, on or within one year) before Ocwen’s bankruptcy filing; and • permitted us to receive more than we would have received in a Chapter 7 liquidation case under applicable bankruptcy laws. If the court were to determine that any payments were avoidable as preferential transfers, we would be required to return such payments to Ocwen’s bankruptcy estate. A sale of Mortgage Servicing Assets or other assets could be re-characterized as a pledge of such assets in a bankruptcy proceeding. If Ocwen’s transfer to us of Mortgage Servicing Assets or any other asset transferred pursuant to the Purchase Agreement were considered to be a sale of such assets, then such assets would not be part of Ocwen’s bankruptcy estate. Ocwen (as debtor-in-possession in the bankruptcy proceeding) or the bankruptcy trustee might assert in a bankruptcy proceeding, however, that mortgage servicing rights or any other asset transferred to us pursuant to the Purchase Agreement were not sold to us but were merely pledged to us as security for Ocwen’s obligation to repay amounts paid by us to Ocwen pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. If such assertion were successful, all or part of the Mortgage Servicing Assets or any other asset transferred to us pursuant to the Purchase Agreement would constitute property of the bankruptcy estate of Ocwen, and our rights against Ocwen would be those of a secured creditor, and not those of an owner, of such assets. Although we will take steps to properly create and perfect a security interest in the assets we have purchased or may purchase in the future pursuant to the Purchase Agreement in case such purchase is re-characterized as a secured financing, the validity or priority of the security interest could be challenged. Payments made to us by Ocwen, or obligations incurred by it, could be avoided by a court under federal or state fraudulent conveyance laws. Ocwen (as debtor-in-possession in the bankruptcy proceeding) or the bankruptcy trustee could also attempt to claim that a sale of Rights to MSRs or sale of mortgage servicing rights or other assets by Ocwen to us was a fraudulent conveyance. Under the United States Bankruptcy Code and similar state insolvency laws, payments made, or obligations incurred, could be voided if Ocwen, at the time it made such payment or incurred such obligation: (a) received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for such transfer or incurrence; and (b) either (i) was insolvent at the time of, or was rendered insolvent by reason of, such transfer or incurrence; (ii) was engaged in, or was about to engage in, a business or transaction for which the assets remaining with Ocwen were an unreasonably small capital; or (iii) intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. If any transfer or incurrence is determined to be a fraudulent conveyance, Ocwen (as debtor-in-possession in the bankruptcy proceeding) or the bankruptcy trustee, would be entitled to recover such transfer or to avoid the obligation previously incurred. The Subservicing Agreement could be rejected in a bankruptcy proceeding. If Ocwen were to file, or to become the subject of, a bankruptcy proceeding under the United States Bankruptcy Code or similar state insolvency laws, Ocwen (as debtor-in-possession in the bankruptcy proceeding) or the bankruptcy trustee could reject the Subservicing Agreement and terminate Ocwen’s obligation to service the mortgage loans underlying one or more of the mortgage servicing rights that we have acquired and that Ocwen has agreed to service for us pursuant to the Subservicing Agreement. As we will not have and in the future do not expect to have the employees, servicing platforms or technical resources necessary to service mortgage loans, if the Subservicing Agreement is rejected, we will need to either engage an alternate subservicer which may not be readily available on acceptable terms or at all, or negotiate a new servicing arrangement with Ocwen which would presumably be on less favorable terms to us. Any claim we have for damages arising from the rejection of the Subservicing Agreement, would be treated as a general unsecured claim for purposes of distributions from Ocwen’s bankruptcy estate. Any of the foregoing events might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. 21 Table of Contents Ocwen or we may be terminated as servicer under pooling and servicing agreements. Servicer termination events or events of default have been triggered in many pooling and servicing agreements underlying the Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights as of December 31, 2012, and the parties to the related securitization transactions could enforce their rights against Ocwen or us at any time as a result. If a servicer termination event or event of default has occurred under a pooling and servicing agreement, the servicer may be terminated without any right to compensation for its loss from the trustee for the securitization trust, other than the right to be reimbursed for any outstanding servicing advances as the related loans are brought current, modified, liquidated or charged off. So long as we are in compliance with our obligations under the Subservicing Agreement and the Purchase Agreement, if Ocwen is terminated as servicer, or if we are terminated as servicer when Ocwen is acting as subservicer, we will have the right to receive an indemnification payment from Ocwen as servicer or subservicer, even if such termination related to servicer termination events or events of default existing at the time of an Ocwen Transaction, including with respect to those servicer termination events or events of default that have been triggered in pooling and servicing agreements underlying the Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights as of December 31, 2012. If Ocwen or we are terminated as servicer with respect to a pooling and servicing agreement and Ocwen is unable to make any resulting indemnification payments to us, if any, it may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our ability to pay dividends and may make it more difficult for us to acquire additional mortgage servicing rights in the future. The expanding body of federal, state and local regulation may increase the cost for Ocwen to service our portfolio which could adversely affect servicing results and our operating results. The servicing of residential mortgage loans is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws, regulations and administrative decisions. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years and is likely to continue to increase. If implemented, these rules or other new laws and regulations affecting the mortgage servicing industry could increase the cost of servicing loans. This may require us to pay increased fees to Ocwen or other servicers when we renew our agreements with them at the end of their terms or enter into new subservicing agreements. In addition, our ability to purchase Mortgage Servicing Assets may be limited if we cannot engage mortgage servicers at rates that allow us to achieve the objectives of our business model. Any of these outcomes may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Regulatory scrutiny regarding foreclosure processes could lengthen foreclosure timelines which could increase advances which would negatively impact our liquidity and profitability. Various state banking regulators and attorneys general have publicly announced that they have initiated inquiries into banks and servicers regarding compliance with legal procedures in connection with mortgage foreclosures, including the preparation, execution, notarization and submission of documents, principally affidavits, filed in connection with foreclosures. In connection with the recent governmental scrutiny of foreclosure processes and practices in the industry, the attorneys general of certain states and certain members of the U.S. Congress and state legislatures have called for a temporary moratorium on mortgage foreclosures although no state has implemented a general foreclosure moratorium on mortgage loan servicers to date. In addition, some individual municipalities have begun to enact laws that may increase the time that it currently takes to complete a foreclosure or prevent foreclosures in such jurisdictions. Such moratoria or other action by federal, state or municipal government bodies, regulators or courts could increase the length of time needed to complete the foreclosure process. When a mortgage loan is in foreclosure, we are generally required to continue to advance delinquent principal and interest to the securitization trust and to also make advances for delinquent taxes and insurance and foreclosure costs and the upkeep of vacant property in foreclosure to the extent we determine that such amounts are recoverable. These servicing advances are generally recovered when the delinquency is resolved. Foreclosure moratoria or other actions that lengthen the foreclosure process increase the amount of servicing advances we are required to make, lengthen the time it takes for us to be reimbursed for such advances and increase the costs 22 Table of Contents incurred during the foreclosure process. In addition, advance financing facilities generally contain provisions that limit the eligibility of servicing advances to be financed based on the length of time that servicing advances are outstanding, and, as a result, an increase in foreclosure timelines could further increase the amount of servicing advances that we need to fund with our own capital. Such increases in foreclosure timelines could increase our need for capital to fund servicing advances which would increase our interest expense, delay the collection of interest income or servicing fee revenue until the foreclosure has been resolved and, therefore, reduce the cash that we have available to pay our operating expenses or to pay dividends. Governmental bodies may also impose regulatory fines or penalties as a result of our subservicers’ foreclosure processes or impose additional requirements or restrictions on such activities which could increase their operating expenses. For instance, in April 2011 the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRB”) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) entered into consent orders with the fourteen largest mortgage servicers to address alleged deficient practices in residential mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure processing. Ocwen is not subject to OCC, FRB or FDIC regulation, and therefore it has not been subject to any consent decree initiated by these federal regulatory agencies. Nonetheless, Congress or federal or state regulatory agencies could subject Ocwen and other independent servicers to similar consent decrees, enforcement actions or investigations. In general, these regulatory developments with respect to foreclosure practices could result in increases in the amount of servicing advances and the length of time to recover servicing advances, fines or increases in operating expenses, and decreases in the advance rate and availability of financing for servicing advances. This would lead to increased borrowings, reduced cash and higher interest expense which could negatively impact our liquidity and profitability, and although the Subservicing Agreement and the Purchase Agreement relating to the Purchased Assets and the subservicing supplement relating to the Aggregate Purchased Assets contain adjustment mechanisms that would reduce the amount of incentive fees payable to Ocwen if servicing advances exceed pre-determined amounts, those fee reductions may not be sufficient to cover the expenses resulting from longer foreclosure timelines. In February 2012, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and attorneys general representing 49 states and the District of Columbia announced a $25 billion settlement (the “Joint Federal-State Servicing Settlement”) with the five largest mortgage servicers—Bank of America Corporation, JP Morgan Chase & Co., Wells Fargo & Company, Citigroup Inc. and Ally Financial Inc. (formerly GMAC)—regarding servicing and foreclosure issues. The federal-state regulators may seek to expand the participation in the Joint Federal-State Servicing Settlement or similar settlements to other servicers and could seek to include Ocwen. Implementation of the servicing practices associated with the Joint Federal-State Servicing Settlement could result in increased costs for servicing mortgage loans generally which could lead to higher subservicing fees being charged to us for subsequent mortgage servicing assets we acquire. In addition, the implementation of a refinancing or principal write-down program like that contemplated by the Joint Federal-State Servicing Settlement could result in an increase in prepayment speeds and negatively affect our earnings and operating results. Risks Related to Taxation We expect to be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes which could subject U.S. Holders to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. We expect to be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A PFIC generally is a foreign corporation if either at least (i) 75% of its gross income is “passive income,” or (ii) 50% of the gross value of its assets is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. If you are a U.S. Holder and do not make a Qualified Electing Fund “QEF” election with respect to us or a mark-to-market election with respect to our ordinary shares, you will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including deferred tax and interest charges with respect to certain distributions on our ordinary shares, any gain realized on a disposition of our ordinary shares and certain other events. The effect of these adverse tax consequences could be materially adverse to you. If you are a U.S. Holder and make a valid, timely QEF election for us, you will not be 23 Table of Contents subject to those adverse tax consequences, but could recognize taxable income in a taxable year with respect to our ordinary shares in excess of any distributions that we make to you in that year, thus giving rise to so-called “phantom income” and to a potential out-of-pocket tax liability. We will provide information to all electing shareholders needed to comply with the QEF election. If you are a U.S. Holder and make a valid, timely mark-to-market election with respect to our ordinary shares, you will recognize as ordinary income or loss in each year that we are a PFIC an amount equal to the difference between your basis in our ordinary shares and the fair market value of the ordinary shares, thus also possibly giving rise to phantom income and a potential out-of-pocket tax liability. Ordinary loss generally is recognized only to the extent of net mark-to-market gains previously included in income. U.S. Holders should be aware that although we currently do not have any subsidiaries that are PFICs, we may form or acquire a subsidiary that is a PFIC in the future. In such event, U.S. Holders will also need to make the QEF election with respect to each such subsidiary in order to avoid the adverse tax consequences described above. We intend to provide all information necessary for U.S. Holders to make the QEF election with respect to any of our subsidiaries that may be classified as a PFIC. U.S. Holders should also be aware that the mark-to-market election generally will not be available with respect to any our subsidiaries that is a PFIC, rendering such election less beneficial to U.S. Holders than the QEF election. If the IRS determines that we are not a PFIC, and you previously paid taxes pursuant to a QEF election or a mark-to-market election, you may pay more taxes than you legally owe. While we expect to be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our tax counsel has indicated that there is a risk that we will not be treated as such. If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) makes a determination that we are not a PFIC in the future, then you may have paid more taxes than you legally owed due to a QEF or mark-to-market election. If you do not, or are not able to, file a refund claim before the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations, you will not be able to claim a refund for those taxes. Distributions that we pay to individual U.S. Holders will not be eligible for taxation at reduced rates. Distributions made to a U.S. Holder that is an individual will not be eligible for taxation at reduced tax rates generally applicable (for tax years beginning before January 1, 2013) to dividends paid by certain U.S. corporations and “qualified foreign corporations.” If our ownership of servicing rights were treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States, we would become subject to U.S. federal income taxation which could adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. The IRS could assert that we are engaged in a U.S. trade or business pertaining to the ownership of mortgage servicing rights. If, contrary to our expectations, our ownership of mortgage servicing rights is treated as being engaged in a trade or business in the United States, we would be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxation on a substantial portion of our net income which would adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. More specifically, if we are treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States, the portion of our net income, if any, that was “effectively connected” with such trade or business would be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at a maximum rate of 35% as opposed to our expectation that only income of our subsidiary that is taxed as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at such rate. In addition, we would be subject to the U.S. federal branch profits tax on our effectively connected earnings and profits at a rate of 30%. We may become subject to taxation in the Cayman Islands. The Cayman Islands currently levies no taxes on individuals or corporations based upon profits, income, gains or appreciation and there is no taxation in the nature of inheritance tax or estate duty. Dividend payments are not subject to withholdings tax in the Cayman Islands. There are no other taxes likely to be material to our company levied by the government of the Cayman Islands except for stamp duties that may be applicable on 24 Table of Contents instruments executed in, or after execution brought within the jurisdiction of, the Cayman Islands. The tax treatment of our business in the Cayman Islands is subject to change. Thus, we may become subject to Cayman Islands taxation in the future. The market price and trading volume of our ordinary shares may be volatile which could result in losses for our shareholders. The market price of our ordinary shares may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume of our ordinary shares may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our ordinary shares declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above your purchase price, if at all. Future sales of ordinary shares by our principal shareholder could cause our ordinary share price to decline. In connection with our IPO, William C. Erbey entered into a written “lock-up” agreement providing, among other things, that he will not sell the ordinary shares he purchased in the private placement for a period of 18 months following the date of the pricing of our IPO without the prior written consent of Wells Fargo Securities, LLC. However, the lock-up agreement is subject to a number of specified exceptions. Pursuant to a Registration Rights Agreement that we have entered into with Mr. Erbey, we have granted to Mr. Erbey demand registration rights which he may exercise one time, and unlimited piggyback registration rights which subject to the applicable lock-up restrictions, may require us to register his ordinary shares beginning 18 months from the date of the pricing of our IPO. Upon expiration of the lock-up agreement, Mr. Erbey will be able to freely sell these ordinary shares subject to volume limitations pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act for so long as Mr. Erbey is an affiliate of ours. Mr. Erbey also purchased 128,103 shares in the public market subsequent to our IPO which are no longer subject to lock-up restrictions, but are subject to volume limitations pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act for so long as Mr. Erbey is an affiliate of ours. We are required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls by the end of fiscal 2013, and we may identify control deficiencies which may be expensive to remediate and could affect the ability of our auditor to issue an unqualified audit report which could affect our share price. As a U.S.-listed public company, we are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by December 31, 2013. Section 404 requires that a public company evaluate its internal control over financial reporting to enable management to report on, and the company’s independent auditors to audit as of the end of the next fiscal year, the effectiveness of those controls. During the course of our review, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity, and we may incur significant costs to remediate those deficiencies or otherwise improve our internal controls. As a public company, we are required to report control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” in our internal control over financial reporting. Public companies are also required to obtain an audit report from their independent auditors regarding the effectiveness of their internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or FINRA. Furthermore, if we discover a material weakness or our auditor does not provide an unqualified audit report when required, our share price could decline; our reputation could be significantly harmed and our ability to raise capital could be impaired. Management is not currently aware of any factors that could result in the determination that there is a material weakness in our internal controls. We are a Cayman Islands exempted company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by Cayman Islands law and our Articles of Association. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors, the rights of minority shareholders to institute actions and the 25 Table of Contents fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the latter of which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law than the United States. In addition, a Cayman Islands company may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our shareholders may encounter more difficulty in protecting their interests against actions taken by our management or Board of Directors than they would as shareholders of a public company incorporated in the United States. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands exempted company, and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors. In addition, the courts of the Cayman Islands may not recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. Furthermore, Cayman Islands courts may not be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS: None 