Risk Factors Investing in our Class A shares involves a high degree of risk. The risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report, including in the section headed "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects", could materially adversely affect our business. These are not the only risks that we face; additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also become important factors that affect us. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our Class A shares could decline. Risks Related to the Russian Economy Geopolitical and macroeconomic events have adversely affected and created uncertainty and instability in the Russian economy, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2014 and early 2015, Russia has experienced an economic downturn that has been characterized by substantial depreciation of its currency, sharp fluctuations of interest rates, a forecasted decline in the gross domestic product in 2015, a steep decline in the value of shares traded on its stock exchanges, and a material increase in the inflation rate. The Russian economy is particularly sensitive to the price of oil, and recent substantial decreases in oil prices have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect its economy. In addition, international sanctions have been imposed on identified parties and business sectors in Russia in connection with the geopolitical situation in Ukraine, as described below. See "—The current geopolitical conflict in Ukraine and related international economic sanctions may continue to adversely affect the Russian economy and the value of investments in Russia, and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations." In 2014, the Russian ruble depreciated against the US dollar by 42%. During the period from January 1, 2015 to April 28, 2015, the value of the Russian ruble appreciated against the US dollar by approximately 9% to RUR 51.5 to $1.00. See "—The depreciation of the Russian ruble has and may continue to materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations." On December 11, 2014, the Central Bank of Russia raised its key rate to 10.5%, followed by a further sharp increase on December 16, 2014 to 17%. The rate was reduced by 2 percentage points in February 2015, and a further 1 percentage point in March 2015, and remains at 14% as of April 28, 2015. Further volatility of interest rates may also adversely affect our ability to borrow funds if necessary or desirable. On January 26, 2015, the global credit ratings agency Standard & Poor's (S&P) downgraded Russia's sovereign debt to "junk" status. S&P lowered its long- and short-term foreign currency sovereign credit ratings on the Russian Federation to non-investment grade BB+ from investment grade BBB–. On February 20, 2015, Moody's Investor Service downgraded Russia's government bond and local currency ratings one notch to Ba1, from Baa3, and retained a negative outlook. Fitch Ratings, the only remaining large credit rating agency to do so, still rates Russia in the investment grade category, albeit at the lowest possible level in this rating and with a negative outlook. The outlook for long-term ratings is considered negative. Further declines in the oil price or other deterioration of the geopolitical situation may lead to further depreciation of the ruble and may lead to the Russia's sovereign credit rating being further downgraded by credit agencies. The slowdown of the Russian economy in recent periods has adversely affected our results of operations. The medium-term outlook for the Russian economy is unsettled, and continued deterioration of the economic situation would likely further adversely affect the profitability of our business. As a result of the current economic instability and any further potential deterioration in the Russian economy, total advertising spending in Russia may decrease which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our operating results. See "—We generate almost all of our revenues from advertising, 7 Table of Contents which is cyclical in nature, and any reduction in spending by or loss of advertisers would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations." The current geopolitical conflict in Ukraine and related international economic sanctions may continue to adversely affect the Russian economy and the value of investments in Russia, and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant uncertainty exists surrounding the current geopolitical situation in Ukraine. The United States, the European Union and certain other countries have imposed economic sanctions on certain Russian government officials, private individuals and Russian companies, as well as "sectoral" sanctions affecting specified types of transactions with named participants in certain industries, including named Russian financial institutions, and sanctions that prohibit most commercial activities of U.S. and E.U. persons in Crimea and Sevastopol. There is significant uncertainty regarding the extent or timing of any potential further economic or trade sanctions, or the ultimate outcome of the Ukrainian crisis. Political and economic sanctions may affect the ability of our international customers to operate in Russia, which could negatively impact our revenue and profitability. Sanctions could also impede our ability to effectively manage our legal entities and operations in and outside of Russia. We are domiciled in the Netherlands, while our wholly owned primary operating subsidiary is organized under the laws of the Russian Federation, and several of our other subsidiaries are incorporated in other countries that have imposed economic sanctions. Although neither our parent company nor our operating subsidiaries are targets of sanctions, our business has been adversely affected by the impact of sanctions on the broader economy in Russia. Political, civil or military conflicts between Russia and other countries could also negatively affect economies in the region, including the Russian economy. This, in turn, may result in a general lack of confidence among international investors in the region's economic and political stability and in Russian investments generally. Along with potential official government sanctions on Russia, U.S. and foreign investors may be pressured to reduce or withdraw their investments in Russia. Such circumstances may result in trading volatility, reduced liquidity and significant declines in the price of listed securities of companies with significant operations in Russia, including our Class A shares. The depreciation of the Russian ruble has and may continue to materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value of the Russian ruble has declined materially against the U.S. dollar in recent periods. The exchange rate quoted by the Central Bank of Russia as of December 31, 2014 was RUR 56.3 to $1.00. During the period from January 1, 2015 to April 28, 2015, the value of the Russian ruble appreciated to RUR 51.5 to $1.00. Although our revenues and expenses are both primarily denominated in Russian rubles, the majority of our rent expenses, including the lease for our Moscow headquarters, are denominated in U.S. dollars. Additionally, a major portion of our capital expenditures, primarily for servers and networking equipment, although payable in rubles, are for imported goods and therefore can be materially affected by changes in the value of the ruble. Moreover, the consideration we have paid in connection with a number of our acquisitions of other businesses to date has been, and future acquisition consideration may be, denominated and paid in U.S. dollars. If the Russian ruble were to experience a prolonged and significant decline in value against foreign currencies, we could face material foreign currency exchange exposure, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We face significant competition from major global and Russian internet companies, including Google and Mail.ru, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face strong competition in various aspects of our business from global and Russian companies that provide internet search and other online services and content. Currently, we consider our principal competitors to be Google and Mail.ru. Of the large global internet companies, we consider Google to be our principal competitor in the market for desktop and mobile internet search, and for text-based advertising, online advertising network, advertising intermediary services, distribution arrangements and other services. According to Liveinternet.ru Google's share of the Russian search market, based on search traffic generated, was 33.6% for March 2015 and 29.3% for the full year 2014, compared with our market share of 58.0% and 60.9%, respectively. Google launched its Russian-language search engine in 2001, and opened its first office in Russia and introduced Russian-language morphology-based search capabilities in 2006. It conducts extensive online and offline advertising campaigns in Russia. In recent periods, Google has also aggressively marketed its Chrome browser in Russia, and has taken steps to attempt to ensure that its search engine is the default search function on its browser, which has created increased competition. With Android, its popular mobile platform, Google exerts significant influence over the increasingly important market for mobile and location-based search and advertising, including through its global arrangements with manufacturers of mobile devices and network operators to preinstall on an exclusive basis a set of Google's mobile applications. See also "—The competition to capture market share on mobile devices is intense and if we are not successful in offering, achieving substantial reach among users and monetizing search and other services on mobile devices, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected." We expect that Google will continue to use its brand recognition and global financial and engineering resources to compete aggressively with us. In addition to Google, we also face competition, albeit less intense, from the Russian and international websites of Microsoft and Yahoo!. On the domestic side, our principal competitor is Mail.ru. Although we power paid search on Mail.ru properties, we also compete with Mail.ru in the market for display advertising and other services. Mail.ru offers a wide range of internet services, including the most popular Russian web mail service, and many other services that are comparable to ours. Mail.ru's search market share was 8.6% and 7.3% in the full years 2013 and 2014 respectively. We also compete with Russian online advertising networks, such as Begun, which serve advertising to a number of popular Russian websites. Although we have partnerships with a number of social networking sites, such as Facebook, Twitter, Vkontakte, Odnoklassniki and My World, and serve ads on some of these sites, we also view them as increasingly significant competitors. Such sites provide users with a wide range of information and services similar to those we offer, including search, real-time news and location-based information and updates. These sites derive a substantial portion of their revenues from online advertising and are experimenting with innovative ways of monetizing user traffic. In light of their large audiences and the significant amount of information they can access and analyze regarding their users' needs, interests and habits, we believe that they may be able to offer highly targeted advertising that could create increased competition for us. The popularity of such sites may also reflect a growing shift in the way in which people find information, get answers and buy products, which may create additional competition to attract users. We also compete with other destination websites, which are sites that users access primarily for content rather than search, that seek to increase their search-related traffic, as well as established companies and start-ups that are developing search technologies and other internet services. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to compete effectively with current and future internet companies that may have greater ability to attract and retain users, greater name 9 Table of Contents recognition, more personnel and greater financial and other resources. If our competitors are successful in providing similar or better search results and other internet services compared with those we offer, we could experience a significant decline in user traffic. Any such decline in traffic could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The competition to capture market share on mobile devices is intense and if we are not successful in offering, achieving substantial reach among users and monetizing search and other services on mobile devices, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Users are increasingly accessing the internet through mobile and other devices rather than desktop and laptop personal computers, including through mobile phones, smartphones, and handheld computers such as netbooks and tablets, as well as through video game consoles, and television set-top devices. Such devices have different characteristics than desktop and laptop personal computers (including screen size, operating system, user interface and use patterns). Tailoring our products and services to such devices requires particular expertise and the expenditure of significant resources. The versions of our products and services developed for these devices, including the advertising solutions we offer, may be less attractive to users, advertisers, manufacturers or distributors of devices than those offered by our competitors or than our desktop offerings. The percentage of our total search traffic that was generated from mobile devices increased from approximately 16% in the fourth quarter of 2013 to approximately 24% in the fourth quarter of 2014, while the percentage of our total revenues generated from mobile devices increased from approximately 12% to approximately 18% between those periods. Each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and as a result our products and services may not work or be viewable on these devices. Some manufacturers may also elect not to include our products on their devices, or may be prohibited from doing so pursuant to their agreements with other parties. In February 2015, we made a formal request to the Russian Federal Antimonopoly Service ("FAS") to open an investigation into whether Google is using its dominant position to promote its search and other services bundled into a single package imposed for pre-installation by device manufacturers, as well as employing exclusive dealing and other restrictive practices to increase its search market share and ensure ubiquity of its other services on Android-operated devices. Our share of searches on the Android platform in Russia decreased from approximately 52% in the fourth quarter of 2013 to approximately 44% in the fourth quarter of 2014. The FAS has opened an investigation based on our request. There is no assurance as to the outcome of this investigation. Moreover, even if the outcome of this investigation is favorable, we may not succeed in maintaining or materially increasing our market share on mobile devices. In addition, consumers are increasingly accessing content directly via "apps" tailored to particular mobile devices or in closed social media platforms, which could affect our share of the search market over time. As new devices and platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the challenges we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services. See also "—As the internet evolves, an increasing amount of online content may be held in closed social networks or stored in proprietary document formats, which may limit the effectiveness of our search technology, which could adversely affect our brand, business, financial condition and results of operations." We expect to continue to devote significant resources to the creation, support and maintenance of mobile products and services. If we are unable to attract and retain a substantial number of device manufacturers, distributors and users to our products and services, or if we are slow to develop products and technologies that are more compatible with such devices and platforms, we will fail to capture the opportunities available as consumers and advertisers transition to a dynamic, multi-screen environment. Furthermore, given the importance of distribution and application pre-installation arrangements with the most popular device manufacturers for successful operation of our business, 10 Table of Contents failure to reach such arrangements may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generate almost all of our revenues from advertising, which is cyclical in nature, and any reduction in spending by or loss of advertisers would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the past three years, we generated on average more than 98% of our revenues from advertising. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns, and can therefore fluctuate significantly. During the 2008/2009 global economic crisis, total advertising spending in Russia declined by 28% in ruble terms, from 2008 to 2009, while the growth in online advertising expenditures slowed, according to the Association of Russian Communication Agencies (AKAR). As a result of the current economic slowdown, the rate of growth in online advertising expenditures slowed materially in 2014, down from a growth rate of 27% from 2012 to 2013 to 18% from 2013 to 2014. In 2015, Zenith Optimedia forecasts online advertising expenditures to grow 5%. The table below provides annual online and total advertising expenditures in Russia from 2007 to 2014: 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (RUR in billion) Online advertising expenditures 12.7 17.6 19.1 26.7 41.8 56.3 71.7 84.6 Growth rate 105 % 39 % 9 % 40 % 57 % 35 % 27 % 18 % Total advertising expenditures 235.5 295.8 215.0 * 250.0 * 263.4 297.8 327.8 340.1 Growth rate 28 % 26 % (27 )% 16 % 5 % 13 % 10 % 4 % *AKAR's revised estimates of the advertising expenditures for historical periods. Although forecasts for online advertising spending in Russia indicate sustained annual growth through 2017, we anticipate that the rate of such growth will decelerate. Any decreases or delays in online advertising spending due to economic conditions, or otherwise, would materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, recent decreases in international oil prices may continue to adversely affect the Russian economy. The current economic slowdown in Russia, and any further potential deterioration, may adversely affect total advertising spending in Russia, which, in turn, would materially adversely affect our operating results for 2015 and in the medium-term. See also "—Geopolitical and macroeconomic events have adversely affected and created uncertainty and instability in the Russian economy, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations." Distribution arrangements with third parties are an important avenue for expanding our user base, and any failure to obtain or maintain such relationships on reasonable terms could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To expand our user base and increase traffic to our sites and mobile applications, we enter into arrangements with leading software companies and device manufacturers for the distribution of our services and technology. In particular, we have agreements, on a co-marketing basis, with certain internet browsers. In addition, several mobile device manufacturers include Yandex as the default search engine on certain Windows-based models of handsets in Russia. As new methods for accessing the internet become available, including through new digital platforms and devices, we may need to enter into new or amended distribution agreements. See also "—The competition to capture market share on mobile devices is intense and if we are not successful in offering, achieving substantial reach among users and monetizing search and other services on mobile devices, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected." 11 Table of Contents Our largest distribution partners in 2014 were Opera, which offers mobile and desktop browsers, and Mozilla, which includes our search as the default in its Firefox browser. If we are unable to continue our arrangements with Opera or Mozilla, or enter into comparable arrangements with new distribution partners, particularly for the distribution of our search and other services on mobile devices, this would likely have a negative effect on our search market share over time. In the future, existing and potential distribution partners may not offer or renew distribution arrangements on reasonable terms for us, or at all, which could limit our ability to maintain and expand our user base, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our users can switch at any time to our competitors at no cost. If we do not continue to innovate and provide services that are useful and attractive to our users, we may be unable to retain them and may become less attractive to our advertisers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on providing search and other services that make using the internet a more useful and enjoyable experience for our users. Our competitors continuously develop innovations in search and other services, as well as online advertising services. As search technology continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer search capabilities that are, or that are seen to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. This may force us to compete in different ways and expend significant resources to remain competitive. If we are unable to continue to develop and provide our users with quality, up-to-date services, and to appropriately time them with market opportunities, or if we are unable to maintain the quality of such services, our user base may not grow, or may decline. Further, if we are unable to attract and retain a substantial share of internet traffic generated by mobile and other digital devices, or if we are slow to develop services and technologies that are compatible with such devices, our user base may not grow or may decline. If our users move to our competitors, we will also become less attractive to advertisers and therefore to Yandex ad network partners. This could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect the rate of growth of our revenues to be lower in the future and we may experience downward pressure on our operating margin. The effectiveness of text-based advertising as a medium has contributed to the rapid growth of our business since our inception. Advertising spending continues to shift from offline to online as the internet evolves and we expect that our business will continue to grow and further benefit from that shift. However, we expect that our revenue growth rate will continue to decline over time as a result of a number of factors, including continuing macroeconomic challenges in Russia, challenges in maintaining our growth rate as our revenues increase to higher levels, increasing competition, changes in the nature of queries, the evolution of the overall online advertising market and the declining rate of growth in the number of internet users in Russia as overall internet penetration increases. Other factors which may cause our operating margin to fluctuate or decline are: • changes in the proportion of our advertising revenues that we derive from the Yandex ad network compared with our own websites. In periods in which our Yandex ad network revenues grow more rapidly than those from our own sites, our operating margin generally declines because the operating margin we realize on revenues generated from partner websites is significantly lower than the operating margin generated from our own websites. The margin we earn on revenue generated from the Yandex ad network could also decrease in the future if we are required to share with our partners a greater percentage of the advertising fees generated through their websites; 12 Table of Contents • increased depreciation and amortization expense related to recent capital expenditures for many aspects of our business, particularly the expansion of our data centers to support growth in both our current and new markets; • relatively higher spending on advertising and marketing to further enhance our brand and promote our services in Russia, to build and expand brand awareness in Turkey and other countries where we operate and to respond to competitive pressures, if these efforts do not drive revenue growth in the manner we anticipate; • expenses in connection with the launch of new products and related advertising and marketing efforts, which may not result in the anticipated increase in revenues or market share; • the possibility of higher fees or revenue sharing arrangements with our distribution partners that distribute our products or services or otherwise direct search queries to our website. We expect to continue to expand the number of our distribution relationships in order to increase our user base and to make it easier for our existing users to access our services; • costs incurred in our international expansion efforts until we succeed in building the user base necessary to begin generating sufficient revenues in these markets to earn accretive operating margins there; and • increased costs associated with the creation, support and maintenance of mobile products and services to maintain and expand our offering and competitive market position, which may not result in anticipated increases in revenues or market share. See "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Key Trends Impacting Our Results of Operations." As the Russian internet market matures, our future expansion will increasingly depend on our ability to generate revenues from new business models or in other markets. As internet usage has spread in Russia, the rate of growth has been declining. The number of users increased by 17% from the fall of 2010 to the fall of 2011, 12% from the fall of 2011 to the fall of 2012, 9% from the fall of 2012 to the fall of 2013, and 9% from the fall of 2013 to the fall of 2014, according to the Public Opinion Foundation of Russia, or FOM. As our core market matures, we will need to provide new services, further exploit new business models, such as e-commerce, or expand into new geographic markets in order to continue to grow our revenues at previously achieved levels. For example, we have recently launched our Yandex.Data Factory and Yandex.Taxi services to expand our revenue base. Our efforts in this regard may not be successful, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our Yandex ad network partners for a material portion of our revenues and benefit from our relationships with them. If we lose these partners, or the quality of these partners decreases, it would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Revenues from advertising on our ad network partner websites represented 23.7% of our text-based and display advertising revenues in 2014 and 20.8% in 2013. This increase reflects in part the impact of our agreement to power paid search results on Mail.ru, which we entered into in July 2013. We consider our ad partner network to be important for the continued growth of our business. Our agreements with our network partners, other than our agreement to power paid search results on Mail.ru, are generally terminable at any time without cause. Our competitors could offer more favorable terms to our current or potential network partners, including guaranteed minimum revenues or other more advantageous revenue-sharing arrangements, in an effort to take market share away from us. Additionally, some of our partners in the Yandex ad network, such as Mail.ru and Microsoft Bing, compete with us in one or more areas and may terminate their agreements with us in order to 13 Table of Contents develop their own businesses. If our network partners decide to use a competitor's advertising services, our revenues would decline. Many of our key network partners operate high-profile websites, and we derive tangible and intangible benefits from this affiliation, such as increased numbers of users, extended brand awareness and greater audience reach for our advertisers. If our agreements with any of these partners are terminated or not renewed and we do not replace those agreements with comparable agreements, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The number of paid clicks and amount of revenues that we derive from our partners in the Yandex ad network depends on, among other factors, the quality of their websites and their attractiveness to users and advertisers. Although we screen new applicants, favor websites with high-quality content and stable audiences, and strive to monitor the quality of the network partner websites on an ongoing basis, these websites are operated by independent third parties that we do not control. If our network partners' websites deteriorate in quality or otherwise fail to provide interesting and relevant content and services to their users, this may result in reduced attractiveness to their users and our advertisers, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on a strong brand, and failing to maintain and enhance our brand would harm our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers and network partners and would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the brand identity that we have developed through the strength of our technology and our user focus has significantly contributed to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the Yandex brand, including through continued significant marketing efforts, is critical to expanding our base of users, advertisers, advertising network partners, and other business partners. Maintaining and enhancing our brand, especially in relation to mobile services, will depend largely on our ability to continue to be a technology leader and a provider of high-quality, reliable services, which we may not continue to do successfully. Our Yandex.Money business now operates through a joint venture with Sberbank. Although we have sought to implement appropriate controls and protections, as the minority partner in this legal entity we may have limited ability to ensure that the business is always operated in a manner that is consistent with the broader Yandex brand. If we or our partner fail to maintain and enhance the Yandex brand, or if we incur excessive expenses in our efforts to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. We spend significant resources expanding and enhancing our service offerings, and if these new or enhanced services are not widely adopted by users, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We continuously work to develop new and enhanced services to broaden and improve the overall quality of our service offerings. The cost we incur in these efforts, both in terms of product development expenses and advertising and marketing costs, can be significant. For instance, we incurred considerable development and marketing expenses in connection with launching our Yandex.Browser in the second half of 2012 and throughout 2013. Our Yandex.Browser has been gaining market share and, in March 2015 had a 7.9% share of the desktop browser market in terms of visitors (unique cookies) and 12.9% of the mobile browser market in terms of traffic in Russia, according to Liveinternet.ru. There is strong competition in the browser market and we cannot guarantee that our browser's market share will continue to grow or maintain its current position. If our new or enhanced services are not widely adopted by users, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to manage effectively the growth of our operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have experienced, and continue to experience, continuous growth in our operations, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. In addition, in the current macroeconomic environment we have made reductions in our staff and may further reduce or limit the expansion of our staff, which would require us to manage our operational growth with fewer people. We have limited operational, administrative and financial resources, which may be inadequate to sustain the growth we seek to achieve. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our services could suffer, which could adversely affect our brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. As our user and advertiser bases expand, we will need to continue to increase our investment in technology, infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations, in particular product development, sales and marketing. As a result of such growth, we will also need to continue improving our operational and financial systems and managerial control and procedures. We will have to maintain close coordination among our technical, accounting, finance, marketing and sales personnel. If the improvements are not implemented successfully, our ability to manage our growth will be impaired and we may have to make significant additional expenditures, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain the focus on teamwork and innovation fostered by this environment, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which values and fosters teamwork and innovation. As our business matures, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of any of our key personnel or a failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends in large part upon the continued service of key members of our management team and technical personnel, as well as our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate other highly qualified engineering, programming, technical, sales, customer support, financial and managerial personnel. Although we attempt to structure employee compensation packages in a manner consistent with the evolving standards of the markets in which we operate and to provide incentives to remain with Yandex, including equity awards under our employee incentive plan, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain our key employees. A number of our senior employees exercised share options in connection with our initial public offering and made significant gains, while a significant portion of our outstanding equity awards held by key employees have become, or will soon become, substantially vested. Although we grant additional equity awards to management personnel and other key employees from time to time, employees may be more likely to leave us after their initial award fully vests, especially if our shares have significantly appreciated in value relative to the exercise price. If any member of our senior management team or other key personnel should leave our group, our ability to successfully operate our business and execute our business strategy could be impaired. We may also have to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring, training and retaining replacements for departing employees. 15 Table of Contents The competition for software engineers and qualified personnel who are familiar with the internet industry in Russia is intense. We may encounter difficulty in hiring and/or retaining highly talented software engineers to develop and maintain our services. There is also significant competition for personnel who are knowledgeable about the accounting and legal requirements related to a NASDAQ listing, and we may encounter particular difficulty in hiring and/or retaining appropriate financial staff needed to enable us to continue to comply with the internal control requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related regulations. Any inability to successfully retain key employees and manage our personnel needs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Growth in our operations internationally may create increased risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited experience with operations outside Russia, and in 2014 derived only approximately 9% of our revenues from advertisers outside Russia. Part of our future growth strategy is to expand our operations geographically on an opportunistic basis. Our geographic expansion efforts generally require the expenditure of significant costs in the new geography prior to achieving the market share necessary to support the commercialization of our services, which allows us to begin generating revenues in the new geography. For example, in 2011 we launched operations in Turkey. In December 2014, our share of the internet search market in Turkey was 4.2% according to comScore qSearch, and we have generated only nominal revenues there to date. Our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations across a broader range of geographies will require considerable management attention and resources and is subject to a number of risks relating to international markets, including the following: • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • managing our relationships with local partners should we choose to adopt a joint venture approach in our international expansion efforts; • credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud in certain countries; • pressure on our operating margins as we invest to support our expansion; • currency exchange rate fluctuations and our ability to manage our currency exposure; • foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in certain countries; • legal risks, including potential of claims for infringement of intellectual property and uncertainty regarding liability for online services and content; • adoption of new legislation and regulations, which may adversely impact our operations or may be applied in an unpredictable manner; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • deleterious changes in political environment; and • higher costs and greater management time associated with doing business internationally. In addition, compliance with complex and potentially conflicting foreign and Russian laws and regulations that apply to our international operations may increase our cost of doing business and may interfere with our ability to offer, or prevent us from offering, our services in one or more countries. These numerous laws and regulations include import and export requirements, content requirements, trade restrictions, tax laws, economic sanctions, internal and disclosure control rules, data protection, data retention, privacy and filtering requirements, labor relations laws, U.S. laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Violations 16 Table of Contents of these laws and regulations may result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, we cannot assure you that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. Any such violations may result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our services in one or more countries, and may also materially adversely affect our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Financial results for any particular period are not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. Our historical results of operations may not be useful in predicting our future results. Our results of operations may fluctuate from period to period as a result of any of the risk factors described in this Annual Report and, in particular, due to: • economic conditions generally and those specific to the internet and online advertising, both in Russia and globally; • geopolitical developments; • fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Russian ruble and the U.S. dollar; • the level of use of internet search engines to find information; • the amount of advertising purchased and market prices for online advertising; • the volume of searches conducted, the amounts bid by advertisers or the number of advertisers that bid in our advertising system; • our ability to compete effectively for users, advertisers, partner websites and content; • the proportion of our revenues generated on our websites relative to those generated through the Yandex ad network or through distribution partners, as a result of the revenue-sharing arrangements we enter into and the overall volume of advertising we provide to our partners; and • the legal framework applicable to regulation of online businesses in Russia and globally. Due to the seasonal nature of advertising spending, future results of our operations may fluctuate from period to period and from quarter to quarter, which may cause our share price to decline. Advertising spending and user traffic tend to be seasonal, with internet usage, online spending and traffic historically slowing down during January, May and June and increasing significantly in the fourth quarter of each year. For these reasons, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and past results should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of revenues may be significantly different from historical or projected rates and may fall below market expectations in a given period, which may cause our share price to decline. Any decline in the internet as a significant advertising platform in the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generate almost all our revenues from the sale of online advertising in Russia. Although the use of the internet as a marketing channel in Russia is maturing, the level of overall spending on advertising in Russia remains relatively low compared to that in other developed countries Broadband penetration rates in Russia are also relatively low compared to those in some other developed countries. The internet competes with traditional advertising media, such as television, print, radio and outdoor advertising. Although advertisers have become more familiar with online advertising in recent years, some of our current and potential customers have limited experience with online advertising, and have not historically devoted a significant portion of their marketing budgets to online marketing and promotion. As a result, they may be less inclined to consider the internet effective in promoting their products and services compared with traditional media. 17 Table of Contents Any decline in the appeal of the internet generally in Russia or the other countries in which we operate, whether as a result of increasing governmental regulation of the internet, the growth in popularity of other forms of media, a decline in the attractiveness of the internet as an advertising medium or any other factor, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Index spammers could harm the integrity of our search results, which may adversely affect our business. So-called "index spammers" seek to develop ways to manipulate internet search results. For example, because our search technology ranks a webpage's relevance based in part on the importance of the websites that link to it, people have attempted to link groups of websites together to manipulate search results. Although we constantly innovate to develop our search technologies to direct users to relevant information, we may be unable to counter such disruptive activity. If our efforts to combat these and other types of index spamming are unsuccessful, our reputation for delivering relevant results could be harmed. This could result in a decline in user traffic, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Malicious applications that interfere with or exploit security flaws in our services could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Third parties have in the past attempted, and may in the future attempt, to use malicious applications to interfere with our users' internet experience, including hijacking queries to our search engine, altering or replacing Yandex search results, or otherwise disrupting our ability to connect with our users. Such interference often occurs without disclosure to or consent from users, resulting in a negative experience that users may associate with Yandex. In addition, we offer applications and services that our users download to their computers or that they rely on to store information and transmit information to others over the internet. These services are subject to attack by viruses, worms and other malicious software programs, which could jeopardize the security of information stored in a user's computer or in our computer systems and networks. If our efforts to combat these malicious applications are unsuccessful, or if our services have actual or perceived vulnerabilities, our reputation may be harmed, our user traffic could decline, and our communications with certain users could be impaired, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As with any other internet company, Yandex is at risk of becoming a target of cracking (efforts to defeat security or encryption protections), a distributed denial-of-service attack, or other computer attack, which could result in a temporary closing of the Yandex sites or some of its services. Such an attack could also lead to the destruction or theft of information, potentially including confidential or proprietary information relating to Yandex's intellectual property, content and users. For example, if a third party were to hack into our network, they could obtain access to our search code. This information could potentially be valuable to our competitors or to search engine optimizers who are looking to improve their clients' site rankings within our search results pages. We are not presently aware of a situation where our code has been used in a way that would harm us, but we may be faced with such a situation in the future. Certain technologies could block our ads, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third parties have in the past, and may in the future, employ technologies to block the display of ads on webpages. Ad-blocking technology, if used effectively, would reduce the amount of revenue generated by the ads we serve and decrease the confidence of our advertisers and Yandex ad network 18 Table of Contents partners in our advertising technology, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to detect click fraud or other invalid clicks, we may face litigation and may lose the confidence of our advertisers, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent and invalid clicks on our ads from a variety of potential sources. Invalid clicks are clicks that we have determined are not intended by the user to access the underlying content, including clicks resulting from click fraud. Click fraud usually occurs when an automated script or computer program is used to imitate a legitimate web browser user clicking on an ad. We monitor our own websites and those of our partners for click fraud and proactively seek to prevent click fraud and filter out fraudulent clicks. To the extent that we are unsuccessful in doing so, we credit our advertisers for clicks that are later attributed to click fraud. If we are unable to stop these invalid clicks, these credits to our advertisers may increase. If we find new evidence of past invalid clicks, we may retroactively issue credits to advertisers of amounts previously paid to our network partners. This negatively affects our profitability, and these invalid clicks may harm our brand. As the internet evolves, an increasing amount of online content may be held in closed social networks or stored in proprietary document formats, which may limit the effectiveness of our search technology, which could adversely affect our brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. Social networks are becoming increasingly important players in the internet market, and have a significant degree of control over the manner and extent to which information on their websites can be accessed through third-party search engines. For example, in early 2013 we launched our Wonder mobile application in the United States, which enabled personalized search of information available to users through their accounts with various social networks and services, including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Foursquare. Facebook subsequently blocked our access to its platform Application Programming Interface and launched a graph search service of its own. In addition, a large amount of information on the internet is provided in proprietary document formats such as Microsoft Word and Adobe Acrobat. The providers of the software applications used to create these documents could engineer the document format to prevent or interfere with our ability to access the document contents with our search technology. If social networks or software providers take steps to prevent their content or documents in their formats from being searchable, such content would not be included in our search results even if the content was directly relevant to a search request. These parties may also seek to require us to pay them royalties in exchange for giving us the ability to search content on their sites or documents in their format and provide links thereto in our search results. If these parties also compete with us in the search business, they may give their search technology a preferential ability to search their content or documents in their proprietary format. Any of these results could adversely affect our brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, which may adversely affect our competitive position, our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and copyrights, as well as nondisclosure agreements, to protect our intellectual property rights. Our patent department is responsible for developing and implementing our group-wide patent protection strategy in selected jurisdictions, and to date we have filed more than 150 patent applications, some of which have already resulted in issued patents. The protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in Russia and other markets in which we operate, however, may not be as effective as that in the United States or Western Europe. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient 19 Table of Contents or effective. Any significant infringement of our intellectual property rights could harm our business, our brand and/or our ability to compete, all of which could adversely affect our competitive position, our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which are costly to defend, could result in significant damage awards, and could limit our ability to provide certain content or use certain technologies in the future. A number of internet, technology, media and patent-holding companies own or are actively developing patents covering search, indexing, electronic commerce and other internet-related technologies, as well as a variety of online business models and methods. We believe that these parties will continue to take steps to protect these technologies, including, but not limited to, seeking patent protection in certain jurisdictions. As a result, disputes regarding the ownership of technologies and rights associated with online activities are likely to arise in the future. In addition, use of open-source software is often subject to compliance with certain license terms, which we may inadvertently breach. With respect to any intellectual property rights claim, we may have to pay damages or compensation and/or stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party's rights. We may have to seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and may significantly increase our operating expenses. We may be required to develop an alternative non-infringing technology, which may require significant effort, expense and time to develop. If we cannot license or develop technology for any potentially infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our service offerings and may be unable to compete effectively. We may also incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party infringement claims regardless of the merit of such claims. Our ability to offer our services may be adversely affected by laws and regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and the protection of user data, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Applicable Russian and foreign laws and regulations govern the collection, use, sharing and security of data that we receive from our users and partners. Although we believe that we comply with all current requirements, these laws could in the future be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with current practice. For instance, in May 2014 the Court of Justice of the European Union established that an operator of a search engine can be obligated to remove from the list of search results links to web-pages containing inaccurate or outdated information related to an individual. If personal data legislation is interpreted and applied in a manner not consistent with current practice, we could face fines or orders requiring that we change our operating practices, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recently adopted amendments to the personal data law in Russia will require that companies store all personal data of Russian users only in databases located inside Russia, starting September 1, 2015. Although our principal data centers are currently located in Russia, this law could limit our flexibility in managing our operations globally. Increasing public awareness of these issues could lead to further restrictions on the use of such data, which could in turn affect our search performance and therefore our ability to generate advertising revenue. In addition, it is our policy to protect the privacy of our users and to keep confidential the data they provide to us, and as a result we may choose not to exploit certain opportunities to maximize revenues in ways that could jeopardize our users' trust in us in this regard. Furthermore, we use cookies and other widespread technologies that assist us in improving the user experience and personalization of our products and services and ultimately benefit both our users and advertisers through behavioral targeting, which makes our advertising more relevant. There is no 20 Table of Contents clarity as to whether our practices are compliant with the requirements of applicable data protection legislation in Russia and abroad, and such laws could be interpreted and applied in a manner that is not consistent with our current data protection practices. Additionally, as our business grows in foreign jurisdictions beyond Russia and our services are offered to foreign users, we may encounter increased pressure from foreign state authorities with respect to production of information related to the users in circumvention of the international legal framework regulating the provision of such information. Any non-compliance with such requests may lead to liability and other adverse consequences. We may be held liable for information or content displayed on, retrieved by or linked to our websites, or distributed by our users, or we may be required to block certain content, which could harm our reputation and business. The law and enforcement practice relating to the liability of providers of online services for the activities of their users is currently not settled in Russia and certain other countries in which we operate. Claims may be brought against us for defamation, libel, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement, tort (including personal injury), fraud, other unlawful activity or other theories and claims based on the nature and content of information to which we link or that may be posted online via blogs and message boards, generated by our users or delivered or shared through our services such as email, chat rooms, hypertext links to third-party websites, or video, image and file storage services, including if appropriate licenses and/or rights holder's consents have not been obtained. For example, we have previously been involved in litigation regarding alleged copyright infringement in the United States. We are also regularly required to remove content uploaded by users on grounds of alleged copyright infringement, and from time to time we receive requests from individuals who do not want their names or websites to appear in our search results. Third parties may also seek to assert claims against us alleging unfair competition, data misappropriation, violations of privacy rights or failure to maintain the confidentiality of user data. Our defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources. If any of these complaints results in liability to us, the judgment or settlement could potentially be costly, encourage similar lawsuits, and harm our reputation and possibly our business. The governments of the countries in which we operate are increasingly developing legislation aimed at regulation of the internet. For example, in August 2013, new amendments to Russian laws, including to the Russian Civil Code, came into effect aimed at the enhancement of intellectual property rights enforcement on the internet. Certain provisions aimed at the liability of information intermediaries could be construed to establish liability for actions not previously actionable, such as linking to allegedly infringing materials. Also, in October 2014, new amendments to the Russian Civil Code came into effect introducing strict liability for infringement of intellectual property rights if such infringement is committed in connection with business activities. New legislation and regulations, such as these, may impose new requirements on us and our operations and lead to material legal liability, which can be difficult to foresee or limit. Additional recent legislation in Russia has introduced a system of information and website blocking measures both to prevent and stop copyright and related rights infringements (other than infringements of copyright in photographs) and to prevent dissemination of illegal information, such as child pornography, content encouraging suicides, drug use, information on minors hurt by illegal actions and extremist information. The regulations generally require notification to be sent by governmental authorities to the administrator of the website or hosting provider, requesting that they take down the allegedly infringing or illegal information prior to blocking access to the website. However, in some cases, such as dissemination of extremist information, access to such information can be blocked without notification or prior judicial scrutiny. The categories of illegal information to which access can be restricted may be interpreted broadly or be expanded. For example, in July 2014 Russian authorities 21 Table of Contents ordered that access to several websites be blocked on the basis of the violation of personal data regulations. The most recent amendment to this legislation, which comes into force on May 1, 2015, has introduced the possibility to require the permanent blocking of websites for violation of copyright and related rights. There is no clarity as to how this measure will be applied in practice. Based on these considerations and the uncertainties in the application of these laws, we may be subject to unpredictable blocking measures, injunctions or court decisions that may require us to block or remove content and may adversely affect our services and operations. In addition, to ensure compliance with such laws we may be required to commit greater resources, or to limit functionality of our services, which may adversely affect the appeal of our services to our customers. In February 2014, new Turkish legislation expanded the liability of and requirements for internet service providers. In particular, the amended law increases the period of time for which internet service providers must retain traffic information, expands their obligation to respond to information requests from government officials and creates new grounds for taking down content and blocking of websites on the internet. Another law adopted in October 2014 introduced regulation of electronic commerce and impacts online sales, commercial messages and the protection of personal data. The Turkish Parliament, Constitutional Court and Supreme Court actively introduce, interpret and implement new rules to regulate the liability of, and may create new obligations for, internet service providers. Adoption of new rules, as well as interpretation and implementation of existing legislation regulating activities of internet service providers, may impact our operations in Turkey. We rely on third-party providers for our principal internet connections and equipment critical to our internet properties and services, and any errors, failures or disruption in the products and services provided by these third parties may materially adversely affect our brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. Any disruption in the network access provided by third parties or any failure by them to handle current or higher volumes of use may significantly harm our business. We exercise little control over these third parties, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience interruptions and delays in service. Furthermore, we depend on hardware and software suppliers for prompt delivery, installation and service of servers and other equipment to deliver our services. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party products and services may negatively impact our relationship with users and materially adversely affect our brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have difficulty scaling and adapting our existing technology architecture to accommodate increased traffic and technology advances or new requirements of our users and advertisers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. With some of the most highly visited websites in Russia, we deliver a growing number of services and page views to an increasing number of users. In addition, the services we offer have expanded and changed significantly and are expected to continue to do so in the future to accommodate bandwidth-intensive technologies and means of content delivery, such as interactive multimedia and video. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adjust our services to evolving industry standards and to maintain the performance and reliability of our services. Rapid increases in the levels or types of use of our online services could result in delays or interruptions in our services. As we expand our services, we will need to continue to invest in new technology infrastructure, including data centers. For example, we recently completed the first phase of construction of a data center in Finland. We may have difficulty in expanding our infrastructure to meet any rising demand for our services, including difficulties in obtaining suitable facilities or access to sufficient electricity supplies. A failure to expand our infrastructure could materially and adversely affect our ability to 22 Table of Contents maintain and increase our revenues and profitability and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A systems failure or human error could prevent us from providing search results or ads, which could lead to a loss of users and advertisers and damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have implemented network security measures, our systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from terrorist attacks, denial-of-service attacks, computer viruses or other cyber-attacks or attempts to harm our system, power losses, telecommunications failures, floods, fires, extreme weather conditions, earthquakes and similar events. Our data centers, which we maintain ourselves, are also potentially subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism, and to potential disruptions. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service, which could reduce our revenues and profits, and our brand could be damaged if people believe our services are unreliable. From time to time, we have experienced power outages that have interrupted access to our services and impacted the functioning of our internal systems. Although we have installed back-up generators, these may not operate properly through a major sustained power outage or their fuel supply could be inadequate. Any unscheduled interruption in our service places a burden on our entire organization and would result in an immediate loss of revenue. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures on our websites, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. The steps we have taken to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems are expensive, reduce our operating margin and may be insufficient to reduce the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. In addition to physical damage and power outages, our systems are also vulnerable to human error. For example, in 2011 we experienced a network outage resulting from human error, which resulted in more than two hours of system down time and which had a temporary negative effect on our search market share. We experienced two shorter periods of downtime in 2012 and 2013 due to coding errors, which had less serious impacts on our search share. There were no significant downtime periods in 2014. Although we test updates before implementation, errors made by our employees in maintaining or expanding our systems may damage our brand and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on the continued development and maintenance of the internet infrastructure in the countries in which we operate. Our future success will depend on the continued development and maintenance of the internet infrastructure globally and particularly in the countries in which we operate. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliable internet services. The internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it by growing numbers of users and time spent online or increased bandwidth requirements. Any outages or delays resulting from inadequate internet infrastructure could reduce the level of internet usage as well as our ability to provide our services to users, advertisers and network partners, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We may seek to acquire complementary businesses, teams and technologies in the future, and may fail to identify suitable targets, acquire them on acceptable terms or successfully integrate them, which may limit our ability to implement our growth strategy. Acquisition of new businesses may also lead to increased legal risks and other negative consequences which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time we acquire other businesses, technologies and teams. For example, in 2013 we completed the acquisition of KinoPoisk LLC, a website dedicated to movies, television programs and celebrities. In 2014 we completed the acquisitions of KitLocate Ltd., a developer of an energy efficient geolocation technology for mobile devices, Auto.ru, a Russian online auto classifieds site, the ADFOX advertising technology platform, and several others. We continue to evaluate selected potential acquisitions and, from time to time, may engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions. The acquisition and integration of new businesses or technologies pose significant risks to our existing operations, including: • additional demands placed on our management, who are also responsible for managing our existing operations; • increased overall operating complexity of our business, requiring greater personnel and other resources; • difficulties in expanding beyond our core expertise; • significant initial cash expenditures or share dilution in connection with acquiring and integrating new businesses; and • legal risks (including potential claims of the counterparty or of third parties), which may result from our lack of expertise in the field of the target's business, an incomplete or improper due diligence, misrepresentations by counterparties, and/or other causes. The integration of new businesses present a number of challenges, including differing cultures or management styles, poor financial records or internal controls on the part of the acquired companies, and an inability to establish control over cash flows. Furthermore, even if we are successful in integrating new businesses, expected cost and operating efficiencies may not materialize, the financial benefits from the acquisition may be less than anticipated, and we could be required to record impairment changes in respect of under-performing assets. Moreover, our growth may suffer if we fail to identify suitable acquisition targets or are outbid by competing bidders. As a NASDAQ-listed company, we are subject to securities laws and regulations that, in certain circumstances, require that we file with the SEC audited historical financial statements for businesses we acquire that exceed certain materiality thresholds. Given financial reporting practices in Russia and other countries in which we operate, such financial statements and documented systems of internal controls over financial reporting are often not readily available or not capable of being audited to the standards required by U.S. securities regulations. As a result, we may be prevented from or delayed in pursuing acquisition opportunities that our competitors and other financial and strategic investors are able to pursue, which may limit our ability to implement our growth strategy. If we are unable to license, acquire or create compelling content at reasonable costs, the number of users of our services may not grow as anticipated or may decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to offer compelling content. We license from third parties much of the content of our services, such as music, news items, weather reports and TV program schedules. If we are unable to maintain and build relationships with third-party content providers this would likely result in a loss of user traffic. In addition, we may be required to make 24 Table of Contents substantial payments to third parties from whom we license or acquire such content. An increase in the prices charged to us by third-party content providers would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, many of our content licenses with third parties are non-exclusive. Accordingly, other websites and other media such as radio or television may be able to offer similar or identical content. This increases the importance of our ability to aggregate compelling content in order to differentiate Yandex from other businesses. If other companies make available competitive content, the number of users of our services may not grow as anticipated, or may decline. Our Yandex.Money joint venture may be used for fraudulent, illegal or improper purposes, which could materially adversely affect our brand, reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. The electronic payments system of our Yandex.Money joint venture with Sberbank is susceptible to fraud and to potentially illegal or improper uses, and we have on occasion identified or been informed of such uses in the past. These may include: • illegal online gambling; • fraudulent sales of goods or services or other merchant fraud; • illicit sales of prescription medications, controlled substances, alcoholic beverages or tobacco products; • software and other intellectual property piracy; • bank or securities fraud, identity theft or money laundering; • improper use of the service for business-to-business transactions; • child pornography or trafficking; and • other illegal or improper purposes. Our ability to control the day-to-day operations of Yandex.Money following completion of the joint venture transaction in July 2013 is more limited than was the case while we were the sole owner of this business. If Yandex.Money is unable to prevent, detect or otherwise adequately address fraud or other improper uses of its services, users may lose confidence in the integrity and security of its services, which may result in a reduction in the number of users and transactions. Any negative publicity associated with the Yandex name in connection with such activities, including criminal proceedings against a user who conducts illegal activities using its services, could result in damage to our brand or reputation. If we are unable to manage these risks, our brand, reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Failure to maintain effective customer service may result in customer complaints and negative publicity and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our services or those offered by us or our Yandex.Money joint venture with Sberbank, or breaches of customers' privacy or of our security measures, could diminish consumer confidence in and use of our services. Measures we implement to combat risks of fraud and breaches of privacy and security may be viewed as onerous by our customers or those of our joint venture and damage relations with them. Alternately, should breaches of customers' privacy or of security measures occur, we could be subject to investigations and claims from the governmental bodies, as well as from our customers. These measures heighten the need for prompt and accurate customer service to resolve irregularities and disputes. Effective customer service requires significant personnel expense, and such expense, if not managed properly, may impact our profitability or that of our Yandex.Money joint venture. Any inability by us or our Yandex.Money joint venture to 25 Table of Contents manage or train our or their customer service representatives properly could compromise our or their ability to handle customer complaints effectively. If we or Yandex.Money fail to maintain effective customer service, our reputation may suffer and we may lose our customers' confidence, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The inherent limitations of the available data regarding internet usage and online advertising may make it difficult to assess our markets and our market position. We rely on and refer to information and statistics from various third-party sources, as well as our own internal estimates, regarding internet usage and penetration and the online advertising markets in the countries in which we operate. The information and statistics used in our industry are subject to inherent limitations reflecting the differing metrics and measurement methods utilized and applied by different sources; for example, data derived from computer usage contrasted to that derived from user surveys. In addition, while we believe that the available data and research on the Russian market is of comparable quality to that available in most developed countries, the data for Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Belarus are generally less consistent and reliable due to more limited third party measurements in those countries. We may be subject to claims from our current or former employees as well as contractors for copyright, trade secret and patent-related matters, which are costly to defend and if lost by us could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. The software, databases, algorithms, images as well as patentable results and trade secrets (know-how) that we use for the operation of our services were generally developed, invented or created by our former or current employees or contractors during the course of their employment with us within the scope of their job functions or under the relevant contractor's agreement, as the case may be. As a matter of Russian law, we are deemed to have acquired copyright, related rights as well as rights to file patent applications with respect to such products, and have the intellectual property rights to their further use and disposal subject to compliance with certain requirements set in the Civil Code of Russia. We believe that we have appropriately followed such requirements, but they are defined in a broad and ambiguous manner and their precise application has never been definitively determined by the Russian courts. Therefore, former or current employees or contractors could either challenge the transfer of intellectual property rights over the products developed by them or with their contribution or claim the right to additional compensation for their works for hire and/or patentable results, in addition to their employment compensation. We may not prevail in any such action and any successful claim could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Although the exact amount of compensation is not currently regulated by Russian law, the Russian government has previously proposed establishing a de minimis amount of required compensation for works and patentable results created by employees, which, if adopted, may affect the amount and structure of payments to our employees. Risks Related to Doing Business and Investing in Russia and Other Countries in which We Operate Emerging markets, such as Russia, are generally subject to greater financial, economic, legal and political risks than more developed markets. Such risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Emerging markets such as Russia are subject to greater risks than more developed markets, including in some cases, financial, economic, legal and political risks. Such risks or an increase in the perceived risks associated with investing in emerging economies could dampen foreign investment and adversely affect the economies of the countries in which we operate. For example, the current geopolitical situation in Ukraine may have deleterious macroeconomic and other effects on the regions in which we operate, including, among other things, increased volatility in currency values and a weaker 26 Table of Contents overall business environment. In addition, such circumstances may harm or encourage volatility in our share price and in equity markets in general. These emerging market and economies are also subject to rapid change. For these reasons, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by any crises in Russia or other emerging markets in which we operate. See also "Risks Related to the Russian Economy." Inflation may increase our costs and exert downward pressure on our operating margin. The Russian economy has generally been characterized by high rates of inflation in recent years. According to the Russian Federal State Statistics Service, Rosstat, the annual inflation rate in Russia was 6.6% in 2012, 6.5% in 2013 and 11.4% in 2014, and is forecast to be between 12% and 14% for 2015, as measured by the consumer price index. Because substantially all of our operations are in Russia, our costs are sensitive to increases in prices in Russia. As a result, high rates of inflation increase our costs, and these increases in cost could negatively impact our operating margin. The legal system in Russia and other countries in which we operate can create an uncertain environment for investment and business activity that could have a material adverse effect on the value of our Class A shares, our business, financial condition and results of operations. The legal framework supporting a market economy remains new and in flux in Russia and the other countries in which we operate and, as a result, the relevant legal systems can be characterized by: • rapid or unexpected changes in the legislative framework; • inconsistencies between and among laws and regulations; • gaps in the regulatory structure resulting from the delay in adoption or absence of implementing regulations and a subordinate legal framework; • selective and inconsistent enforcement of laws or regulations, sometimes in ways that have been perceived as being motivated by political or financial considerations; • scarce judicial and administrative guidance on interpreting legislation; • relatively limited experience of judges and courts in interpreting recent commercial legislation as well as in understanding specifics of business operations and international best practices in the sphere of information technology and other areas; • a perceived lack of judicial and prosecutorial independence from political, social and commercial forces; • inadequate court system resources; • a high degree of discretion on the part of the judiciary and governmental authorities; and • poorly developed bankruptcy procedures that are not infrequently abused. Furthermore, a range of civil legislation in Russia is currently under review or has recently been adopted. For example, recent legislative changes have addressed intellectual property regulations, including regulation of the use of intellectual property rights in the internet and regulation of patents. Further changes set out in First Part of Russian Civil Code containing general provisions on obligations and contracts are expected to come into effect in June 2015. Such amendments may significantly affect existing business practices and result in additional legal risks related to compliance with newly adopted civil legislation. In addition, as is true of civil law systems generally, judicial precedents generally have no binding effect on subsequent court decisions. In 2014, the Higher Arbitrazh Court was disbanded and cases formerly within its jurisdiction were transferred to the Supreme Court of Russia, while the system of 27 Table of Contents lower arbitrazh courts remained unchanged. The Supreme Court of Russia, which through a separate division now handles commercial disputes after the judicial reorganization, and the entire system of courts of common jurisdiction, are known to be more rigid and conservative than the system of arbitrazh courts. This may result in reconsideration of the previous practices and rulings favorable to business activity and a significant change in the judicial climate in Russia. Not all legislation and court decisions are readily available to the public or organized in a manner that facilitates understanding. Enforcement of Russian court rulings as well as recognition and enforcement of foreign state court awards may prove to be substantially problematic. All of these factors make judicial decisions difficult to predict and effective protection of rights and interests uncertain. Additionally, court claims and governmental prosecutions may be used in furtherance of what some perceive to be political aims. In other countries in which we operate, limited and inconsistent enforcement with respect to certain laws and the rapid evolution of their legal systems may result in ambiguities, inconsistencies and anomalies in the application and interpretation of laws and regulations. Any of these factors may result in our being subject to unpredictable fines or requirements, affect our ability to enforce our rights under our contracts or to defend ourselves against claims by others, or result in our being subject to unpredictable requirements, and could have a material adverse effect on our Class A shares and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The fact that we are a high-profile company may heighten this risk. See "—Businesses in Russia, have on occasion been subject to actions by public authorities that some have characterized as unpredictable or politically motivated" and "—Risks in other countries." The legal framework governing internet services and e-commerce in Russia and the other countries in which we operate is in the process of development, and we may be required to have additional licenses, permits or registrations, or to take additional actions in order to conduct our business, which may be costly or may limit our flexibility to run our business. Although we believe that we currently have all material licenses and permits required to conduct our business, court interpretations and the applicability of Russian commercial legislation and regulations in relation to our business can be ambiguous or contradictory and it is possible that the authorities may determine that we are required to have additional licenses, permits or registrations. For example, we could fall within the following regulations that require receipt of licenses/permits or compliance with certain mandatory procedures: • Currently, Russian law requires acquisition of a "telematics" license by a company if it provides any telecommunications services for a fee. We generally do not charge for the online services we provide to our users and therefore believe we are not required to hold a telematics license; we do, however, generate revenue from ads directed to our users. It is possible that a Russian court or a government agency may construe our advertising revenue as an indirect "fee" and determine that we are required to hold a telematics license. Additionally, as we may further develop certain user services that would be provided for a fee in the future, we cannot assure you that such services, if developed, would not trigger the licensing requirements referenced above. • Russian law requires that "mass media" businesses be registered with the applicable governmental authority. Although Russian law does not specifically include internet enterprises in the list of mass media businesses, several internet businesses that publish news have been required to obtain an electronic mass media registration. Current law also permits electronic network publications (websites) to register on a voluntary basis as mass media under the procedures established by the law. Our principal operating subsidiary, which operates our search and most of our other user services and online properties, does not hold a mass media 28 Table of Contents registration. In 2014, a member of the Russian parliament submitted an official inquiry to the General Prosecutor's Office asking whether our Yandex.News service should be registered as mass media in accordance with Russian law. The General Prosecutor's Office responded that Yandex.News is not a mass media and is not required to be registered as such. We have determined that we are not required to register as a mass media business; however, we cannot assure you that we will not be required to register as a mass media business in the future, especially if the current law changes. Obtaining and maintaining such registration may be burdensome, time-consuming and costly, and may adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Moreover, amendments to the Mass Media Law adopted in October 2014 will limit non-Russian ownership and control, direct or indirect, of Russian mass media to no more than 20%, starting in 2016. Accordingly, if our core business were to be required to register as a mass media, it would have a material impact on the ownership structure of our business and could materially adversely affect the value of our Class A shares. See also "—If the Russian government were to impose limitations on foreign ownership of internet businesses in Russia, it could materially adversely affect our group and the value of our Class A shares." • In 2014, the Russian government introduced legislation regulating popular bloggers. The legislation is drafted in general terms and can potentially apply to any owner of a website or webpage which contains publicly available information and is visited by more than 3,000 internet users daily, whether such site is owned and/or operated by an individual or a legal entity. Popular bloggers have to register with the Russian authorities and bear responsibilities in respect of the content available on their websites or webpages which are substantially similar to the obligations of mass media in Russia (including a requirement to ensure the accuracy of the information made available). Since the scope of this legislation is uncertain, it is unclear whether the new legislation applies to any of the companies of our group. • Businesses that use certain encryption technologies in their products and services may be required to obtain a license from the Russian Federal Security Service. We use standard encryption protection measures in some of our services such as Yandex.Mail, and although we believe that such use of encryption is excluded from these licensing requirements, we cannot assure that the regulator may not take a different view. We may have to apply for additional licenses, permits or registrations, or provide notifications, to comply with new or existing legal requirements, which may be costly or may limit our flexibility to run our business. If we fail to obtain and maintain required licenses, permits or registrations, or fail to comply with other applicable legal requirements, we may face fines, penalties or sanctions. These may include a requirement that we permanently or temporarily cease certain of our business activities, administrative penalties or criminal prosecution of our officers. In addition, we might be unable to immediately comply with new regulations upon their implementation. We may be subject to laws that impose restrictions on the processing of certain types of personal and other data, which may affect our ability to flexibly manage our business or make it more costly to do so, or subject us to fines or other penalties. Collection and handling of personal data by any entity or person in Russia is subject to certain requirements and restrictions, including obtaining written consent from the relevant individual and using technical and encryption means for the protection of personal data. In addition, subject to several exemptions, a notification must be made to the appropriate Russian governmental body, Roscomnadzor, to process personal data. We do not collect or perform any operations on our users' personal data, except when such collection or processing is in accordance with our terms of services and privacy policies which are available on our websites. Due to the absence of established court practice and official guidelines on the application of exemptions, however, we cannot assure you that 29 Table of Contents the regulator may not take a view that we nevertheless have to file a notification or comply with other requirements. If we are ultimately required to file such a notification or otherwise are determined to be subject to the rules regarding the collection and handling of personal data, we may be required to use special technical facilities and equipment and to adopt extensive internal compliance rules for the protection of personal data, which may adversely affect our ability to flexibly manage our business or make it more costly to do so. Recently adopted amendments to the personal data law in Russia will require that companies store all personal data of Russian users only in databases located inside Russia, starting September 1, 2015. In accordance with the amended legislation, a data operator, when collecting personal data of Russian citizens including on the Internet, must ensure that the personal data is recorded, systemized, accumulated, stored, updated and gathered by using databases that are situated in Russia. Non-compliance with this requirement may lead to legal liability and potentially to restriction of the availability of the service in Russia. At the time of its adoption the new legislation was supposed to come into force on September 1, 2016, but recently the commencement date was moved to September 1, 2015. Since this legislation is drafted in very general terms, it is uncertain whether it applies to our operations or, if it does apply, to what extent. Compliance with the requirements provided in this legislation may be practically difficult, require significant efforts and resources, could lead to legal liability in other jurisdictions and limit functionality of our services. Compliance with the requirements contained in the new legislation may also limit our ability to compete with other companies located in other jurisdictions that do not require mandatory local storage of personal data relating to their users. Due to the nature of services we offer and the fact that we have presence in a number of countries, we may also be subject to personal data laws of other jurisdictions, especially laws regulating to cross-border transfer of personal data, which may require significant compliance efforts and could result in liability for violations in other jurisdictions. Further, current law imposes restrictions on the distribution of satellite images of certain areas in Russia and the other countries in which we operate and imposes requirements with respect to the information provided by the traffic monitoring service we offer. If we were found to be in violation of any such restrictions, we may be forced to suspend such services or may potentially be subject to fines or other penalties. We may be subject to data retention regulations that require us to collect, store and produce to the state authorities certain types of data related to the activity of our users, which may require us to acquire additional storage, make amendments to our services and products, or harm our reputation with users. In 2014, the Russian government adopted legislation to regulate the "organizers of information distribution". The legislation is drafted in general terms and can potentially apply to any person developing software that may receive, transfer, deliver or process electronic messages of internet users. Organizers of information distribution must notify the relevant Russian authority about the commencement of their operations. Organizers of information distribution must also retain a broad range of data relating to and generated by the users (including the facts of receipt, transfer, delivery and processing of information as well as information about the users) for a period of six months and provide such data to security and investigation authorities at their request. If an organizer of information distribution fails to comply with the above requirements, the Russian authorities can prescribe the blocking of access to the services of such organizer of information distribution. Although the scope of this legislation is uncertain, our main subsidiary operating in Russia has notified the relevant Russian authority that it acts as an organizer of information distribution with respect to some of the services it provides. Compliance with the legislative requirements may require significant expenditures by us such as expenditures on additional data centers, servers and other 30 Table of Contents infrastructure or software development. Data retention may also harm our reputation with users and make our services less competitive in comparison with the services provided by companies located in other jurisdictions that do not require the mandatory retention of data relating to their users. Failure to comply with the requirements of the new legislation may lead to our services being unavailable for our users in Russia. We may be subject to existing or new advertising legislation that could restrict the types and relevance of the ads we serve, which would result in a loss of advertisers and therefore a reduction in our revenues. Russian law prohibits the sale and advertising of certain products, such as illegal drugs. In addition, advertising for certain regulated products and services may only be conducted by, or on behalf of, advertisers who possess the licenses, approvals and certificates required to market and sell such products and services. Ads for certain products and services, such as financial services, as well as ads aimed at minors and some others, must comply with specific rules and must in certain cases contain required disclaimers. Furthermore, a July 2012 amendment to Russian advertising legislation outlawed advertising of alcohol on the internet as well as in periodicals. Similar regulations were adopted in November 2013 with respect to the advertising of cigarettes, tobacco products and smoking accessories. In early 2014, new regulations were also adopted to limit or in certain cases to prohibit the advertising of medical services; these restrictions were loosened to some degree in June 2014. Further amendments to legislation regulating advertising may impact our ability to provide some of our services or limit the type of advertising we may offer. The application of these laws to parties, such as Yandex, that merely serve or distribute such ads and do not market or sell the product or service, however, can be unclear. Pursuant to our terms of service, we require that our advertisers have all required licenses or authorizations. If our advertisers do not comply with these requirements, and these laws were to be interpreted to apply to us, or if our ad-serving system failed to include necessary disclaimers, we may be exposed to administrative fines or other sanctions, and may have to limit the types of advertisers we serve. The regulatory framework in Russia governing the use of behavioral targeting in online advertising is unclear. If new legislation were to be adopted, or current legislation were to be interpreted, to restrict the use of behavioral targeting in online advertising, our ability to enhance the targeting of our advertising could be significantly limited, which could result in a loss of advertisers or a reduction in the relevance of the ads we serve, which would reduce the number of clicks on the ads and therefore our revenues. Our need to comply with applicable Russian laws and regulations could hamper our ability to offer services that compete effectively with those of our foreign competitors and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our global competitors, such as Google, Microsoft and Yahoo!, have their principal operations outside of Russia, putting them generally outside of the jurisdiction of Russian courts and government agencies, even though some of them have offices in Russia. Our systems and operations are located principally in Russia. Russian laws and regulations that are applicable to us, but not to our foreign competitors, may impede our ability to develop and offer services that compete effectively on a global scale as well as in Russia with those offered by our foreign-based competitors and generally available worldwide over the internet. For example, our foreign competitors may be able to offer certain content that is now, or may in the future be, restricted by Russian law. Any inability on our part to offer services that are competitive with those offered by our foreign competitors may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Russian authorities could determine that we hold a dominant position in one or more of our markets, and could impose limitations on our operational flexibility that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Russian anti-monopoly legislation imposes restrictions on companies that occupy a dominant position in a given market. We believe that the authorities have not to date addressed internet advertising in Russia to any significant extent, although we are aware of public statements by government officials suggesting that the authorities may analyze the business of online social networking. In addition, in February 2015, we made a formal request to the Russian Federal Antimonopoly Service (FAS) to open an investigation into whether Google is using its dominant position to promote its search and other services bundled into a single package imposed for pre-installation by device manufacturers, as well as employing exclusive dealing and other restrictive practices to increase its search market share. Were the Russian authorities to investigate the broader internet or online advertising industries, as a result of the Android investigation or otherwise, it is possible that they may conclude that, given our market share, we hold a dominant position in one or more of the markets in which we operate. This could result in limitations on our future acquisitions and a requirement that we pre-clear with the authorities any changes to our standard agreements with advertisers and Yandex ad network partners, as well as any specially negotiated agreements with business partners. In addition, if we were to decline to conclude a contract with a third party or terminate an existing agreement without sufficient substantiation this could, in certain circumstances, be regarded as abuse of a dominant market position. As a general rule, actions or omissions of a dominant company are prohibited if they lead or may lead to prevention, restriction or elimination of competition or infringement of third parties' interests, resulting in the imposition of disadvantageous contractual terms to the counterparty or terms not related to the subject of the contract; fixing different prices on the same commodity, where it is not economically or technologically justifiable; creating discriminatory conditions or barriers to enter the market; or other consequences. Any abuse of a dominant market position could lead to administrative penalties and the imposition of fines of up to 15% of our prior year annual revenues in the relevant market. These limitations may reduce our operational and commercial flexibility and responsiveness, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Businesses in Russia, have on occasion been subject to actions by public authorities that some have characterized as unpredictable or politically motivated. Many commercial laws and regulations in Russia are relatively new and have been subject to limited interpretation. As a result, their application can be unpredictable. In addition, government authorities have a tendency to follow a very formal approach in certain cases, are entrusted with a high degree of discretion and have at times exercised their discretion in ways that may be perceived as selective or unpredictable, and sometimes in a manner that is seen as being influenced by political or commercial considerations. Such actions have included the termination or invalidation of contracts, withdrawal of licenses, sudden and unexpected tax audits, criminal prosecutions, administrative investigations and civil actions. Federal and local government entities have also used common defects in documentation as pretexts for court claims and other demands to invalidate and/or to void transactions, apparently for political purposes. We cannot assure you that regulators, judicial authorities or third parties will not challenge our compliance with applicable laws, decrees and regulations. The Russian government has taken various actions in recent years against business people and companies operating in Russia that have been perceived as having been politically motivated, including actions for technical violations of law or violations of laws that have been applied retroactively, such as violations of tax laws, or interpretations of widely used practices in specific cases as impermissible. In 2008, for example, government officials publicly criticized transfer pricing arrangements used by a Russian-based company that is publicly traded in the United States, claiming that such arrangements 32 Table of Contents constituted tax evasion. These claims resulted in a steep decline in that company's stock price. In 2014 a high-ranking Russian official made public statements about Yandex that were perceived by some to be negative, following which the price of our Class A shares dropped significantly. High-profile businesses in Russia, such as ours, can be particularly vulnerable to politically motivated actions. Some Russian television broadcasters, for example, have experienced what some would characterize as politically motivated actions, including efforts to facilitate change of control. Although we believe that our commitment to content neutrality principles lessens the risk of politically motivated actions against us, we cannot guarantee that we will not be affected by politically motivated actions that could materially adversely affect our operations. Moreover, although our Yandex.News service aggregates content by automatic algorithm, without regard to viewpoint, other parties may perceive our Yandex.News service as reflecting a political viewpoint or agenda, which could subject us to politically motivated actions. See also "—The legal framework governing internet services and e commerce in Russia and the other countries in which we operate is in the process of development, and we may be required to have additional licenses, permits or registrations, or to take additional actions in order to conduct our business, which may be costly or may limit our flexibility to run our business." The Russian parliament may adopt and government officials may apply unpredictable, contradictory or ambiguous laws or regulations in ways that have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such actions have on occasion resulted in significant fluctuations in the market prices of the securities of businesses operating in Russia, a weakening of investor confidence in Russia and doubts about the progress of market and political reforms in Russia. Businesses operating in Russia can also be significantly affected by the rapid and unpredictable adoption of legislation, which can restrict or prohibit business practices that were previously permitted. For example, in 2013 the stock prices of a Russian bank focused on distance banking services and a company offering instant payment services dropped sharply after the news about possible introduction of new laws that could impact their operations. Following the adoption in 2014 of amendments to the Russian Mass Media Law restricting foreign ownership and control of mass media, the stock price of a television broadcaster operating in Russia and listed on a foreign stock exchange dropped significantly. If the Russian government were to impose limitations on foreign ownership of internet businesses in Russia, it could materially adversely affect our group and the value of our Class A shares. In October 2014, an amendment to the Russian law "On Mass Media" was adopted that will reduce the permitted level of foreign ownership in companies that hold Russian mass media registrations. The law will come into force on January 1, 2016, by which time each Russian mass media entity must comply with the requirement that non-Russian entities and individuals in the aggregate shall beneficially own or control, directly or indirectly, no greater than 20% of the relevant mass media entity. Yandex's principal businesses in Russia are not currently required to register as mass media, and therefore this new law is not applicable to our business. Were a new law with a similar regulation to be adopted that imposed a limitation on foreign ownership of internet businesses such as ours, or were the mass media law to be amended to require that our businesses register as mass media or implement a separate registration for online services, this could require a significant change in our operating or ownership structure, which could materially adversely affect our operations and/or the value of our Class A shares. Our Yandex.Traffic service is currently registered as an information agency. We are evaluating a restructuring of this part of our business to comply with the requirements of the mass media law, and do not expect that these requirements will adversely affect our core business. 33 Table of Contents Existing restrictions on foreign ownership may prevent a takeover of our company by a non-Russian party. The Russian Federal Law "On the Procedure for Foreign Investments in Companies which are Strategically Important for the State Defense and National Security" (the "Strategic Companies Law") restricts foreign ownership of companies involved in certain strategically important activities in Russia. The relevant activities include activities connected with the use of encryption technologies that are subject to licensing. The internet and online advertising are not currently industries specifically covered by the Strategic Companies Law, but there have previously been draft amendments under consideration by the Russian State Duma, which, if adopted, would include certain internet companies that have large audiences within the scope of this law. Amendments effective as of December 2014 further extended the scope of the Strategic Companies Law to include transactions on stock markets and acquisitions of fixed assets of strategically important companies equaling or exceeding 25% of such entity's book value as reported in its latest financial statements. The Strategic Companies Law requires the prior approval of a Russian Governmental Commission chaired by the Prime Minister of Russia or post-transaction notification to the Russian Federal Anti-Monopoly Service (as the case may be) when obtaining control over a strategically important company. For example, under the provisions of the Strategic Companies Law, the direct or indirect acquisition of more than 25% of the voting power of a strategically important company or other ability to block decisions of the management bodies of a strategically important company by a foreign state, international organization or entity controlled by a foreign government, or international organization, or the direct or indirect acquisition of more than 50% of the voting power of such a company by any foreign investor or any of its controlled companies, requires the prior approval of the Russian Governmental Commission chaired by the Prime Minister. Failure to obtain the required governmental approval prior to an acquisition would render the acquisition null and void. If it is impossible to apply the consequences of invalidity to a void transaction, the state court may upon the lawsuit of the Russian Federal Anti-Monopoly Service adopt a decision: • depriving the foreign investor of its right to vote at the shareholders' (participant's) meeting of a strategically important company; or • invalidating the decisions of the management bodies of a strategically important company adopted after the establishment of control in breach of the Strategic Companies Law. Post-transaction notification to the Russian Federal Anti-Monopoly Service is required in the case of acquisition of 5% or more of the shares of a strategically important company. In addition, foreign investors or their group companies that are controlled by a foreign state or international organization are prohibited from owning more than 50% of the voting power of a strategically important company, including jointly with other unrelated foreign investors controlled by a foreign state or international organization. We believe that our Yandex.Money joint venture is covered by the Strategic Companies Law due to the fact that PS Yandex.Money LLC currently holds encryption licenses which fall within the scope of the Strategic Companies Law. Since the conclusion of our joint venture in respect of the Yandex.Money business in July 2013 following the sale by Yandex N.V. to Sberbank of 75% (less one ruble) of the total participation interest in PS Yandex.Money LLC , we believe that the applicable restrictions in respect of private non-Russian persons no longer apply to Yandex N.V., but that the requirement to obtain prior approval from the Russian Government Commission chaired by the Russian Prime Minister continue to be applicable to non-Russian state, international organizations or entities controlled by a non-Russian government or international organization that would seek to acquire shares of Yandex N.V. or enter into an agreement that would establish direct or indirect control over Yandex N.V. and, therefore, trigger application of the Strategic Companies Law discussed above. There is also a risk that some of the rights granted to Yandex N.V. under the joint venture agreement with Sberbank could be interpreted by Russian authorities as establishing control by Yandex N.V. over 34 Table of Contents PS Yandex.Money LLC, which would require the Russian Governmental Commission's preliminary consent for a broader number of transactions, including by private non-Russian persons. These restrictions on ownership of our shares would be in addition to the restrictions on ownership of our shares provided for in our articles of association. See "—Risks Related to Ownership of our Class A Shares—Our Board of Directors and our priority shareholder have the right to approve accumulations of stakes in our company or the sale of our principal Russian operating subsidiary, which may prevent or delay change-of-control transactions," "—Risks Related to ownership of our Class A Shares—Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of association and the shareholders agreement among our principal shareholders may prevent or delay change-of-control transactions." Moreover, because Yandex N.V. holds 25% (plus one ruble) in PS Yandex.Money LLC, there is a risk that a change of control in respect of Yandex N.V. would still require preliminary consent of the Central Bank of Russia, as Yandex N.V. could be considered to indirectly hold more than 10% of the voting power of a non-banking credit organization. Businesses in Russia can be subject to efforts by financial groups seeking to obtain control through the exercise of economic or political influence or government connections. Well-funded, well-connected financial groups and so-called "oligarchs" have, from time to time, sought to obtain operational control and/or controlling or minority interests in attractive businesses in Russia by means that have been perceived as relying on economic or political influence or government connections. We may be subject to such efforts in the future and, depending on the political influence of the parties involved, our ability to thwart such efforts may be limited. The Russian banking and financial system remains less developed than those in some more developed markets, and a banking crisis could place liquidity constraints on our business and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Russia's banking and other financial systems are less well developed and regulated than those of some more developed markets, and Russian legislation relating to banks and bank accounts is subject to varying interpretations and inconsistent application. Russian banks generally do not meet international banking standards, and the transparency of the Russian banking sector lags behind international norms. In addition, the United States and European Union have imposed "sectoral" and related sanctions on named Russian banks in connection with developments in Ukraine. See "—The current geopolitical conflict in Ukraine and related international economic sanctions may continue to adversely affect the Russian economy and the value of investments in Russia, and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations." As a result, the banking sector remains subject to periodic instability. In 2013 the Central Bank of Russia conducted review of activities and operations of Russian banks, which in certain cases led to withdrawal of banking licenses. Another banking crisis, or the bankruptcy or insolvency of banks through which we receive or with which we hold funds, may result in the loss of our deposits or adversely affect our ability to complete banking transactions in Russia, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our counterparties provide limited transparency in their operations, which could subject us to greater scrutiny and potential claims from government authorities. We do business with a number of companies, especially small companies that do not always operate in a fully transparent manner and that may engage in unpredictable or otherwise questionable practices with respect to tax obligations or compliance with other legal requirements. We have on occasion been approached by government authorities regarding potential tax claims or other compliance matters in connection with such transactions. As a larger and more transparent company with greater 35 Table of Contents resources than such counterparties, governmental authorities may seek to collect taxes and/or penalties from us in relation to such transactions on the basis that we had knowledge of or aided such practices even when we did not. Changes in the Russian tax system or unpredictable or unforeseen application of existing rules may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Russian tax, currency, and customs laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations and changes, which may be frequently revised and reviewed by the authorities. As a result, our interpretation of such tax legislation may be challenged by the relevant authorities. For example, recent major legislative developments in the Russian tax regime, such as implementation of the new transfer pricing rules, which came into effect in 2012, anti-offshore and CFC rules, which came into effect in 2015, to a large extent resemble the OECD approach but may be implemented in a way which is not in line with international practice or our interpretation. Moreover, under the current conditions of weak economic growth and reduced tax revenue, the authorities are taking more assertive position in their interpretation of the tax legislation and, as a result, it is possible that transactions and activities that have not been challenged in the past may now be put under question by the authorities. High-profile companies such as ours can be particularly vulnerable to such assertive position of the authorities. Although we believe that our interpretation of relevant legislation is appropriate and is in accordance with existing court practice, if the authorities were successful in enforcing differing interpretations, our tax liability may become greater than the estimated amount that we have expensed to date and paid or accrued on our balance sheet. Generally, Russian taxpayers are subject to inspection of their activities for a period of three calendar years immediately preceding the year in which an audit is carried out, with a tax audits routinely undertaken at least every two years. The last tax audit of our principal Russian operating subsidiary covering 2010, 2011 and 2012 was completed in 2014, which means that activities prior to December 31, 2012 are effectively closed to a tax audit. However, a higher tax authority may conduct an audit for the financial year ending December 31, 2012. Taxes payable on dividends from our Russian operating subsidiaries to our parent company might not benefit from relief under the Netherlands-Russia tax treaty. In 2014, our principal Russian operating subsidiary distributed limited dividends to our parent company (Yandex N.V.) and applied withholding tax at a 5% rate in reliance on the provisions of the Netherlands-Russia tax treaty. Yandex N.V. is incorporated in the Netherlands and our principal operating subsidiaries are incorporated in Russia. Our management seeks to ensure that we conduct our affairs in such a manner that our parent company is not regarded as tax resident in any jurisdiction other than the Netherlands and, in particular, is not deemed to be a tax resident of, or to have a permanent establishment in, Russia. Thus, dividends paid from our Russian operating subsidiaries to our parent company should generally be subject to Russian withholding tax at a 5% rate. If our parent company were not treated as a Dutch resident for tax purposes or if it were deemed to have a permanent establishment in Russia, or if the Russian tax authorities were to determine that other conditions for the application of the 5% rate are not met, dividends paid from our Russian operating subsidiaries to our parent company would be subject to Russian withholding tax at the rate of 15%. Moreover, one of the requirements for applying withholding tax at a rate of 5% of dividends under the Russian-Dutch Double Tax Treaty is that the income recipient should be the beneficial owner of the income. Effective from January 2015, the definition of "beneficial owner" of income for the purposes of application of double tax treaties was introduced into the Russian Tax Code. According to the introduced definition, a company is considered a beneficial owner of income if such person, by virtue of 36 Table of Contents direct and/or indirect participation in an entity, or control over an entity, or other circumstances, has the right to use and/or dispose of this income, or for the benefit of which another person is entitled to use the income received. In other words, this is a company that actually benefits from the income paid and determines its further economic destiny. In this case, all the functions carried out by such persons as well as the existing powers and the risks taken in respect of the income paid should be taken into consideration. A Russian entity is entitled to request a confirmation from a foreign entity that the latter has the beneficial right to receive the corresponding income. If beneficial ownership requirements are not met, application of the 5% withholding tax rate may be challenged by the tax authorities. Russian tax rules are characterized by significant ambiguities and limited interpretive guidance and are subject to change, and we can provide no assurance that dividend withholding tax relief may not be challenged by the Russian tax authorities based on the grounds mentioned above. Furthermore, Russian tax rules regarding residency and beneficial ownership which were recently introduced, may change or interpretation may change, thus triggering changes in taxation of dividends from our Russian subsidiaries to our parent company in the future. The recently adopted anti-offshore and controlled foreign corporation (CFC) rules that came into effect in 2015 are generally ambiguous and lacking sufficient interpretive guidance. Based on the current state of the law, we do not anticipate recognition of Russian tax residence as Yandex N.V. does not have any artificial and non-substantive structures without assets and qualified personnel, and is managed by a Board of Directors consisting principally of non-Russian residents. Also, based on the presently available interpretation, we believe that Yandex N.V. and our material subsidiaries should not be recognized as CFCs in 2015. However, there are risks that any these rules may be interpreted or applied in a manner that may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be required to record a significant deferred tax liability if we are unable to reinvest our earnings in Russia. Our principal Russian operating subsidiary has significant accumulated earnings that have not been distributed to the Dutch parent company. Our current policy is to retain substantially all our earnings at the level of our principal subsidiary for investment in Russia. We did not provide for dividend withholding taxes on the unremitted earnings of our non-Dutch subsidiaries in 2013 or earlier years because we considered them to be permanently reinvested outside of the Netherlands. In the first quarter of 2014, we began to accrue for a 5% dividend withholding tax on the portion of the current year profit of our principal Russian operating subsidiary that we considered not to be permanently reinvested in Russia. As of December 31, 2014, we had an accrual of RUR 460 million ($8.2 million) for dividend withholding tax. If circumstances change and we are unable to reinvest in that subsidiary's current operations or acquire suitable businesses in Russia, U.S. GAAP would require us to record a deferred tax liability representing the dividend withholding taxes that we would be required to pay if this subsidiary were to pay these unremitted accumulated earnings to our Dutch parent company as a dividend, even if such dividends were not actually declared and paid. As of December 31, 2014, the cumulative amount of unremitted earnings in respect of which dividend withholding taxes have not been provided is RUR 44,787 million. The applicable withholding tax rate is 5% and the amount of the unrecognized deferred tax liability related to these unremitted earnings was RUR 2,239 million as of December 31, 2014. We expect the amount of unremitted earnings to grow as our principal Russian operating subsidiary continues to generate net income. If we were required to record a deferred tax liability on an amount subsequently made available for distribution it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 37 Table of Contents Ambiguities in Russian law regarding payments to individuals who are Yandex ad network partners may create employment-related tax obligations or require us to limit network partnership and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ambiguities in Russian law make it difficult to structure payments to third-party individuals for Russian tax purposes. Many of our Yandex ad network partners are individuals who own and operate their own websites. We have contractual relationships with third parties, including advertising agencies, who act as aggregators and that make payments to individual Yandex ad network partners for fees to which they are entitled in connection with the ads we serve on their websites. In the event that an aggregator fails to make any required tax withholding or otherwise comply with applicable laws in respect of such payments, the authorities might seek to hold us liable for personal and social taxes or VAT, and may not accept our deduction of these expenses, as the tax authorities claimed in our tax audit for the years 2010-2012. In 2014, we stopped our cooperation with aggregators but it is possible that the tax authorities may make claims for the prior open years 2013 and 2014. Risks in other countries. In addition to Russia, we currently have operations in other countries in the CIS, including Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan. We may acquire or establish additional operations in additional countries of the CIS. In many respects, the risks inherent in conducting business in these countries are similar to those in Russia set out above. Risks Related to Ownership of our Class A Shares The price of our Class A shares has been and may continue to be volatile. Market fluctuations specific to Russia or developing markets or to high-growth technology companies generally may affect the performance of our Class A shares and could expose us to potential securities litigation, which could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. Macroeconomic events in Russia in recent periods have adversely affected the value of traded securities of companies with significant operations in Russia, including our Class A shares. In addition, the market for technology and other growth companies has generally experienced severe price and volume fluctuations that have often been disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad macroeconomic, market and industry factors may impact the market price of our Class A shares regardless of our actual operating performance. The trading price of our Class A shares has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • macroeconomic and geopolitical developments; • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • fluctuations in our share of the internet search market; • announcements of technological innovations or new services and media properties by us or our competitors; • the emergence of new advertising channels in which we are unable to compete effectively; • changes in governmental regulations; • disruption to our operations or those of our partners; • our ability to develop and launch new and enhanced services on a timely basis; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; 38 Table of Contents • any major change in our directors or management; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; or • general global or Russian economic conditions and slow or negative growth or forecast growth of related markets. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in the price of our Class A shares may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, some of whom have been granted equity awards. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. This volatility may affect the price at which holders of Class A shares may sell such shares and the sale of substantial amounts of our Class A shares could adversely affect the price of our Class A shares. The concentration of voting power with our principal shareholders, including our founders, directors and senior management, limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our Class B shares have ten votes per share and our Class A shares have one vote per share. As of March 15, 2015, our founders, directors and senior management (and their affiliates) together own 80.77% of our outstanding Class B shares and 1.29% of our outstanding Class A shares, representing in the aggregate 57.17% of the voting power of our outstanding shares. In particular, our founder, Mr. Volozh, directly or indirectly controls 56.62% of our outstanding Class B shares representing 39.81% of the voting power of our outstanding shares. For the foreseeable future, therefore, our founder, directors, senior management and their affiliates will have significant influence over the management and affairs of our company and over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, the amendment of our articles of association and significant corporate transactions, such as a sale of our company or its assets. Because of this multiple class structure, these persons will continue to exert significant influence over all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval even if they come to own fewer than 50% of our outstanding shares by number. In addition, our principal shareholders are parties to a shareholders agreement that, among other things, requires them to vote to elect those directors nominated by our Board of Directors for election or re-election, and limits their ability to vote in favor of amendments of the anti-takeover provisions of our articles of association. This concentrated control limits your ability to influence decisions on corporate matters. We may take actions that our public shareholders do not view as beneficial or as maximizing value for them. As a result, the market price of our Class A shares may be adversely affected. Our Board of Directors and our priority shareholder have the right to approve accumulations of stakes in our company or the sale of our principal Russian operating subsidiary, which may prevent or delay change-of-control transactions. Our Board of Directors has the right, acting by simple majority, to approve the accumulation by a party, group of related parties or parties acting in concert of the legal or beneficial ownership of shares representing 25% or more, in number or voting power, of our outstanding Class A and Class B shares (taken together). If our board grants its approval of such share accumulation, the matter is then submitted to the holder of our priority share, which has a further right of approval of such 39 Table of Contents accumulation of shares. In addition, any decision by our Board of Directors to transfer all or substantially all of our assets to one or more third parties, including the sale of our principal Russian operating subsidiary, is subject to the prior approval of the priority shareholder. Any holding, transfer or acquisition by a party, group of related parties or parties acting in concert of the legal or beneficial ownership of Class B shares representing 25% or more, in number or by voting power, of our outstanding Class A and Class B shares (taken together), without the prior approval of our Board of Directors, first, and then the priority shareholder, will be null and void. The acquisition of shares in excess of the thresholds permitted by our articles of association will be subject to certain notification requirements set forth in our articles of association. Failure to comply with those terms would render the transfer of such shares null and void. In addition, the holders of such shares would not be entitled to the dividend or voting rights attached to their excess shares. The rights of our Board of Directors and our priority shareholder to approve accumulations of stakes in our company may prevent or delay change-of-control transactions. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of association and the shareholders agreement among our principal shareholders may prevent or delay change-of-control transactions. In addition to the rights of our board and of the priority shareholder to approve the accumulation of stakes of 25% or more, as described above, our multiple class share structure may discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change-of-control transaction that our public shareholders may view as beneficial. Our articles of association also contain additional provisions that may have the effect of making a takeover of our company more difficult or less attractive, including: • the staggered three-year terms of our directors, as a result of which only one-third of our directors are subject to election in any one year; • a provision that our directors may only be removed by a two-thirds majority of votes cast representing at least 50% of our outstanding share capital; • the authorization of a class of preference shares that may be issued by our Board of Directors in such a manner as to dilute the interest of any potential acquirer; • requirements that certain matters, including an amendment of our articles of association, may only be brought to our shareholders for a vote upon a proposal by our Board of Directors; • minimum shareholding thresholds, based on par value, for shareholders to call general meetings of our shareholders or to add items to the agenda for those meetings, which will be very difficult for Class A shareholders to meet given our multiple class share structure; and • supermajority requirements for shareholder approval of certain significant corporate actions, including the legal merger or demerger of our company and the amendment of our articles of association. In addition, the provisions of the shareholders agreement described above could have the effect of preventing or delaying a takeover of our company. The Dutch public offer rules, which impose substantive and procedural requirements in connection with the attempted takeover of a Dutch public company, only apply in the case of Dutch target companies that have shares listed on a regulated market within the European Union. We have not listed our shares, and do not expect to list our shares, on a regulated market within the European Union, and therefore these rules do not apply to any public offer for our Class A shares. 40 Table of Contents We rely on NASDAQ Stock Market rules that permit us to comply with applicable Dutch corporate governance practices, rather than the corresponding domestic U.S. corporate governance practices, and therefore your rights as a shareholder differ from the rights you would have as a shareholder of a domestic U.S. issuer. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we are permitted in certain cases to follow Dutch corporate governance practices instead of the corresponding requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. We follow Dutch corporate governance practices with regard to the quorum requirements applicable to meetings of shareholders and the provision of proxy statements for general meetings of shareholders. In accordance with Dutch law and generally accepted business practices, our articles of association do not provide quorum requirements generally applicable to general meetings of shareholders. Although we do provide shareholders with an agenda and other relevant documents for the general meeting of shareholders, Dutch law does not have a regulatory regime for the solicitation of proxies and the solicitation of proxies is not a generally accepted business practice in the Netherlands. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ's corporate governance rules. We do not comply with all the provisions of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. This may affect your rights as a shareholder. As a Dutch company we are subject to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, or DCGC. The DCGC contains both principles and best practice provisions for management boards, supervisory boards, shareholders and general meetings of shareholders, financial reporting, auditors, disclosure, compliance and enforcement standards. The DCGC applies to all Dutch companies listed on a government-recognized stock exchange, whether in the Netherlands or elsewhere, including the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The principles and best practice provisions apply to the board (in relation to role and composition, conflicts of interest and independency requirements, board committees and remuneration), shareholders and the general meeting of shareholders (for example, regarding anti-takeover protection and obligations of the company to provide information to its shareholders) and financial reporting (such as external auditor and internal audit requirements). The DCGC requires that companies either "comply or explain" any noncompliance and, in light of our compliance with NASDAQ requirements and as permitted by the DCGC, we have elected not to comply with all of the provisions of the DCGC. This may affect your rights as a shareholder and you may not have the same level of protection as a shareholder in a Dutch company that fully complies with the DCGC. Because of the secondary listing of our Class A shares on the Moscow Stock Exchange, we are subject to additional disclosure and compliance requirements that may conflict with those imposed by the SEC and NASDAQ, and we may experience trade fluctuations based on arbitrage activities. In June 2014, we established a secondary listing of our Class A shares on the Moscow Stock Exchange. Pursuant to that listing, we and our insiders must comply with certain disclosure and other obligations that may differ in timing and substance from those applicable to our NASDAQ listing. In addition, many of the obligations imposed by the Moscow Stock Exchange are formalistic in nature, and that exchange has limited experience in the application of its requirements to companies incorporated outside Russia. As a result, we may not be able to comply with all formal obligations in a manner that is consistent with the requirements or interpretations of that exchange. In addition, this secondary listing may create opportunities for trading arbitrage, particularly in connection with currency fluctuations between the trading in U.S. dollars on NASDAQ and in rubles on the Moscow Stock Exchange, which could impact the trading price of our Class A shares. 41 Table of Contents Risks for U.S. Holders We cannot assure you that we will not be classified as a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year, which may result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequence to U.S. holders. Based on certain management estimates with respect to our gross income and average value of our gross assets and on the nature of our business, we believe that we were not a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the 2014 tax year, and do not expect to be a PFIC in the foreseeable future. However, because our PFIC status for any taxable year will depend on the composition of our income and assets and the value of our assets in such year, and because this is a factual determination made annually after the end of each taxable year and there are uncertainties in the application of the rules, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. In particular, the value of our assets may be determined in large part by reference to the market price of our Class A shares, which have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, significantly. If we were to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder held our Class A shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. holder. See "Taxation—Taxation in the United States—U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders—Passive foreign investment company considerations." Any U.S. or other foreign judgments you may obtain against us may be difficult to enforce against us in Russia or the Netherlands. We have only very limited operations in the United States, most of our assets are located in Russia, our company is incorporated in the Netherlands, and most of our directors and senior management are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult to serve process on us or these persons within the United States. Although arbitration awards are generally enforceable in Russia and the Netherlands, and Russian courts may elect to enforce foreign court judgments as a matter of international reciprocity and judicial comity, you should note that judgments obtained in the United States or in other foreign courts, including those with respect to U.S. federal securities law claims, may not be enforceable in Russia or the Netherlands. There is no mutual recognition treaty between the United States and the Russian Federation or the Netherlands, and no Russian federal law or Dutch law provides for the recognition and enforcement of foreign court judgments. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce any U.S. or other foreign court judgment obtained against our company, any of our operating subsidiaries or any of our directors in Russia or the Netherlands. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Dutch law and differ in some important respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Netherlands. The responsibilities of members of our Board of Directors under Dutch law are different than under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our Board of Directors is required by Dutch law to consider the interests of Yandex, its shareholders, its employees and other stakeholders and not only those of our shareholders. Also, as a Dutch company, we are not required to solicit proxies or prepare proxy statements for general meetings of shareholders. In addition, the rights of our shareholders are governed by Dutch law and our articles of association, and differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. For example, Dutch law does not grant appraisal rights to a company's shareholders who wish to challenge the consideration to be paid upon a merger or consolidation of the company. 42 Table of Contents 