Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our ordinary shares involves significant risks. We describe below the principal risks and uncertainties that we believe affect us or could affect us in the future. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. You should carefully read and consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this prospectus, before you decide to invest in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, our ability to pay dividends in the future may be adversely affected, the value of our ordinary shares could significantly decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We may not be able to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. We intend to declare and pay monthly cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We intend to distribute approximately 90% of our Net income over time to our shareholders, although we are not required by law to do so. Our Board of Directors has the right to rescind any declared, but unpaid dividends at any time prior to the applicable dividend payment date. While we intend to continue to pay monthly dividends at the current rate, we may not be able to do so in the future. Our dividend policy is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend, among other things, on cash available for distributions, general economic and business conditions, our strategic plans and prospects, our financial results and condition, contractual, legal and regulatory restrictions on the declaration and payment of dividends by us and such other factors as our Board of Directors considers to be relevant. We are highly dependent upon our senior management team. Our business model and the execution of our business strategy are highly dependent upon the members of our senior management team. The loss of the services of any of our senior executives or key employees could delay or prevent us from executing our business strategy and could significantly and negatively affect our business. Our senior management team will also devote a portion of its time to performing certain functions for Ocwen pursuant to the Ocwen Professional Services Agreement. This will detract from the amount of time these executives have available to focus on our business. In the future, we may need to hire additional personnel to meet the demands of our business and the number of available, qualified personnel in the mortgage servicing industry may be limited, and the lack of qualified personnel may delay our ability to execute our business model as planned. 10 Table of Contents Future economic slowdowns and/or deterioration of the housing market could increase delinquencies and defaults on the mortgage loans underlying the mortgage servicing rights we acquire which would negatively affect our operating results. During any period in which the borrower is not making payments on a mortgage loan, the servicer is generally required to advance its funds to meet contractual principal and interest remittance requirements for the securitization trust that owns the mortgage loans, pay property taxes and insurance premiums, process foreclosures and maintain, repair and market foreclosed real estate properties. If the economy slows and/or the housing market deteriorates, our operating results would be adversely affected in the following ways: • Interest Income. Because we recognize interest income as principal and interest payments are collected from the borrowers on the mortgage loans underlying our Mortgage Servicing Assets and as delinquent loans are resolved, an increase in delinquencies would reduce the interest income that we recognize; • Expenses. If the ratio of advances to the UPB of our portfolio increases beyond a certain point, the increase in Interest expense could exceed the reduction in our incentive fee paid to Ocwen, thus resulting in a reduction to our profitability; and • Valuation of Mortgage Servicing Assets. Defaults on mortgage loans will decrease the value of our Mortgage Servicing Assets. In addition, future default rates that exceed current estimates may result in increased reductions to our interest income and a reduction in the value of our Mortgage Servicing Assets. A significant increase in prepayment speeds would reduce the UPB of the mortgage loans underlying our Mortgage Servicing Assets and could adversely affect our operating results. Prepayment speeds significantly affect our business. Prepayment speed is the measurement of how quickly borrowers pay down the UPB of their loans or how quickly loans are otherwise brought current, modified, liquidated or charged off. Prepayment speeds have a significant impact on our servicing fees, our expenses and the valuation of our Mortgage Servicing Assets as follows: • Interest Income. If prepayment speeds increase, our interest income will decline more rapidly than estimated because of the greater than expected decrease in the UPB of the mortgage loans on which interest income is based. • Valuation of Mortgage Servicing Assets. We base the price we pay for Mortgage Servicing Assets on, among other things, our projection of the cash flows from the related pool of mortgage loans. Our expectation of prepayment speeds is a significant assumption underlying those cash flow projections. If prepayment speeds are significantly greater than expected, the fair value of our Mortgage Servicing Assets could decline faster than expected which would have a negative impact on our operating results. If we are unable to maintain the UPB of the mortgage loans underlying our Mortgage Servicing Assets at an adequate level through the acquisition of additional Mortgage Servicing Assets or acquire other assets with similar characteristics, we would likely reevaluate our long-term business strategy which could include pursuing asset classes that differ from our current Mortgage Servicing Assets. We could also sell our remaining Mortgage Servicing Assets and use the proceeds to pay a liquidating distribution to our shareholders. In any such event, our shareholders may not be able to recover the full value of their initial investment in our ordinary shares. We may not be able to successfully compete for the acquisition of mortgage servicing rights which could adversely affect our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to acquire additional mortgage servicing rights on terms consistent with our business and economic model. We expect to compete with independent mortgage loan 11 Table of Contents servicers, mortgage REITs, MSR investment funds, private equity firms, hedge funds and other large financial services companies in acquiring additional mortgage servicing rights. Many of our anticipated competitors are significantly larger than we are, have access to greater capital and other resources, are capable of financing servicing advances at a lower interest rate and may have other advantages over us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments which could lead them to offer higher prices to Ocwen and other servicers than we would be willing to pay for these assets. If we are unable to compete for new assets and the UPB of or mortgage portfolio declines over time this may cause our administrative expenses to increase relative to our equity base. Our assumptions in determining the purchase price for Mortgage Servicing Assets may be inaccurate or the basis for such assumptions may change which could adversely affect our results of operations. To the extent that we purchase Mortgage Servicing Assets in the future, our success will be highly dependent upon accurate pricing of such Mortgage Servicing Assets. In determining the purchase price for Mortgage Servicing Assets, we will make assumptions regarding the following: • The rates of prepayment and repayment of the underlying mortgage loans; • Amount of future servicing advances; • Projected rates of delinquencies and defaults; • Future interest rates; and • The costs associated with engaging subservicers to service the loans. If any of our assumptions regarding the Mortgage Servicing Assets that we acquire are inaccurate or the basis for such assumptions change, the price we pay to acquire Mortgage Servicing Assets may prove to be too high. This could result in lower than expected profitability or a loss. We do not intend to operate a mortgage servicing platform and will need to engage servicers to service the mortgage loans underlying any mortgage servicing rights we ultimately acquire. We may not be able to engage servicers on terms that are favorable to us or at all. We do not intend to operate a mortgage servicing platform. Our success will depend on our ability to enter into agreements with high-quality mortgage servicers, like Ocwen, to service the mortgage loans underlying any mortgage servicing rights we ultimately acquire. The terms of any agreement will be negotiated with the servicer prior to the acquisition of the related mortgage servicing rights. It is unlikely that the term of any agreement we enter into will match the life of any mortgage servicing rights that we ultimately acquire and therefore will need to be renewed. As a result, the terms of any new agreement or renewal will depend on the economic environment and the costs of providing servicing at that time. In addition, the terms of any future servicing agreements, including those we enter into with Ocwen, may not be similar to the terms of our current agreements with Ocwen. We may be unable to obtain sufficient servicer advance financing necessary to meet the financing requirements of our business which could adversely affect our liquidity position and result in a loss of servicing rights. If delinquencies increase with respect to the mortgage loans underlying our Mortgage Servicing Assets, we will require more funding than we currently expect which may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. We currently meet our servicing advance financing requirements through our servicing advance facilities. Under normal market conditions, mortgage servicers typically have been able to renew or refinance liquidity facilities for mortgage servicing rights. However, during the economic crisis that began in 2007, there were periods of time when some mortgage servicers were unable to renew these facilities. Borrowing conditions have improved 12 Table of Contents since that time; however, market conditions at the time of any renewal or refinancing may not enable us to renew or refinance our advance financing facilities or obtain additional facilities on favorable terms or at all. Ocwen will not have any obligation to us to fund any servicing advances that we are required to purchase or fund. Our inability to obtain adequate financing to fund servicing advances would result in the loss of our Rights to MSRs pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. If, for this reason, our Rights to MSRs are lost, we will bear the full economic impact of this loss without the right to seek indemnification from Ocwen. If our assumptions regarding subprime and Alt-A borrower refinancing options prove incorrect, or if the Federal government implements policies that help non-agency borrowers refinance, the UPB underlying our Mortgage Servicing Assets could decline faster than expected which would adversely affect our operating results. We make a number of assumptions about future servicing fees, expenses, assets and liabilities relating to our Mortgage Servicing Assets. These assumptions are based on our view that subprime and Alt-A borrowers have limited refinancing options. Refinancings, also known as voluntary prepayments, are a small component of total prepayments with involuntary prepayments and liquidations being the larger component. If subprime and Alt-A borrowers were able to refinance their mortgage loans at a faster rate than expected and had a financial incentive to do so, prepayment speeds could increase, resulting in a faster reductions of the aggregate UPB of the underlying mortgage loans, adversely affecting our operating results. If we are named in legal proceedings involving Ocwen, our financial results could be adversely affected. We could be added as a defendant or investigated in any matters related to Ocwen’s servicing practices. If lawsuits are brought against Ocwen regarding its servicing practices relating to our Mortgage Servicing Assets we also may be added as a defendant in the future. Defending ourselves against lawsuits or adverse legal judgments against us may require that we pay significant legal fees, settlement costs, damages, penalties or other charges, or undertake remedial actions pursuant to administrative orders or court-issued injunctions, any of which could adversely affect our financial results. We are dependent on Ocwen to act as a servicer with respect to the mortgage loans underlying the Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights. We are dependent on Ocwen to service the mortgage loans underlying the Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights. A failure of Ocwen to perform its servicing obligations under a related pooling and servicing agreement (“PSA”) could result in the termination of Ocwen as servicer. If this occurs, we will only have recourse against Ocwen, and if Ocwen is unable to make any applicable indemnification payments owed to us, we could lose the entire value of the related Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights. Failure by Ocwen to comply with applicable laws and regulations may adversely affect our business. The failure of Ocwen to comply with the laws and regulations in connection with servicing mortgage loans underlying our Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights could possibly lead to civil and criminal liability, loss of licensing, damage to our reputation, fines and penalties, and litigation including class action lawsuits or administrative enforcement actions. Failure by Ocwen to ensure that servicing advances comply with the terms of the PSAs may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Servicing advances that are improperly made may not be eligible for financing under our advance financing facilities and may not be reimbursable by the related securitization trusts or other owners of the mortgage loan which would reduce our liquidity and may cause us to suffer a loss. 13 Table of Contents If Ocwen fails to adequately perform its loss mitigation obligations, we could be required to make additional servicing advances, and the time period for collecting servicing advances may extend, adversely affecting our liquidity and earnings. Ocwen is required to service the mortgage loans in accordance with specified standards and employ loss mitigation techniques to reduce the probability that borrowers will default on their loans and to minimize losses when defaults occur. These loss mitigation techniques may include the modification of mortgage loan rates, principal balances and maturities. If Ocwen fails to adequately perform their loss mitigation obligations under these agreements, we could be required to purchase or fund servicing advances in excess of those that we might otherwise have had to purchase or fund, and the time period for collecting servicing advances may extend. Any increase in servicing advances or material increase in the time to resolution of a defaulted loan could result in increased financing costs to us and adversely affect our liquidity and Net income. A downgrade in Ocwen’s servicer rating could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) and Fitch rate many mortgage servicers, including Ocwen. These ratings are subject to change in the future without notice. Servicer ratings are important to our ability to finance servicing advances. In addition, some PSAs may also require that the servicer or subservicer maintain specified servicer ratings. The failure to maintain the specified rating may cause the termination of the servicer under such PSAs. Any such downgrade could have an adverse effect on our business, financing activities, financial condition or results of operations. On November 14, 2012, S&P placed its “above average” servicer rating on Ocwen on CreditWatch “negative” as opposed to “stable”. S&P stated that it took this action due to Ocwen’s recent purchases of Homeward Residential Inc. (“Homeward”) (which has since been completed) and of the mortgage servicing platform of GMAC Mortgage LLC and Residential Capital LLC (which has since been completed). S&P also stated that it would continue to monitor the impact that these acquisitions have on Ocwen’s servicing operations. While Ocwen’s management is of the opinion that these acquisitions will not negatively affect the operational performance of its mortgage servicing, no assurance can be given that S&P or other rating agencies will maintain their current servicer ratings of Ocwen. A downgrade in our corporate credit ratings could impact our ability to issue term loans within our senior secured term loan facility or a newly created facility. On June 13, 2013, in connection with our senior secured term loan facility agreement, we were issued credit ratings of Ba3/Stable and B+/Stable from Moody’s and S&P. Our ability to secure additional financing for servicing advances is largely dependent on the rating of the pledged collateral and not on our corporate credit rating. A downgrade in our corporate credit ratings could impact our ability to issue additional term loans within our senior secured term loan facility or a newly created facility. If we are required to register under the Investment Company Act, our ability to conduct our business could be materially adversely affected, and you could suffer losses. We are not registered, and do not intend to register, as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”). We intend to conduct our operations directly and through wholly or majority-owned operating subsidiaries so that we and each of our subsidiaries is not an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We believe that neither we nor our operating subsidiaries will be considered an investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act because neither we nor our operating subsidiaries will engage primarily, or hold ourselves or our operating subsidiaries out as being engaged primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Rather, we, through our operating subsidiaries, are primarily engaged in the non-investment company 14 Table of Contents business of these subsidiaries, namely the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring Rights to MSRs and associated servicing advances and engaging and managing one or more high-quality residential mortgage loan servicers to service the pools of mortgage loans underlying the mortgage servicing rights. We structured the special purpose entities that we established in connection with our match funded advance financing facilities to rely on the investment company exemption provided to certain structured financing vehicles by Rule 3a-7 promulgated pursuant to the Investment Company Act. If, however, we or any of our subsidiaries are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements, and our activities may be restricted, among other things which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. We may also seek exemptive relief from the SEC which could impose significant costs on our business. If we or any of our subsidiaries were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, the unregistered entity would be prohibited from engaging in business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against such unregistered entity. In addition, the contracts of such unregistered entity would be unenforceable unless a court required enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of such unregistered entity and liquidate the unregistered entity which could lead to losses to our shareholders. We could have conflicts with Ocwen and Altisource, and our Chairman of the Board of Directors, other members of our Board of Directors or management could have conflicts of interest due to his or their relationships with Ocwen and Altisource that may be resolved in a manner adverse to us. We do a substantial amount of business with Ocwen and Altisource. Conflicts may arise between us and one or more of these entities because of the ongoing agreements we have with them or because of the nature of each of our respective businesses. Our Chairman of the Board of Directors is also the Chairman of Ocwen and Altisource. As a result, he has obligations to us as well as to Ocwen and Altisource and may have or appear to have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us, Ocwen and Altisource, as the case may be. Our Chairman currently has substantial investments in Ocwen and Altisource and certain of our other officers own stock or options in Ocwen. Such ownership interests could create or appear to create conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us, Ocwen and Altisource, as the case may be. We have adopted policies, procedures and practices to avoid potential conflicts with respect to our dealings with Ocwen and Altisource, including Mr. Erbey recusing himself from negotiations regarding, and approvals of, transactions with these entities. We also manage potential conflicts of interest through oversight by independent members of our Board of Directors (independent directors constitute a majority of our Board of Directors) and we will seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute resolution and other provisions of our agreements with Ocwen and Altisource, as the case may be. There can be no assurance that such measures will be effective, that we will be able to resolve all conflicts with Ocwen and Altisource, as the case may be, or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with a third party that had none of the connections we have with these businesses. A bankruptcy of Ocwen could adversely affect our business. If Ocwen becomes subject to a bankruptcy proceeding, our business could be materially adversely affected, and you could suffer losses. 15 Table of Contents The validity or priority of our security interest in the Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights could be challenged in a bankruptcy proceeding of Ocwen, and the Purchase Agreement could be rejected in such proceeding. Ocwen’s obligations under the Purchase Agreement with respect to the Rights to MSRs are secured by a security interest in the related Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights and the proceeds of the related Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights. We have undertaken all requirements under applicable law to properly create and perfect such a security interest with respect to the Rights to MSRs that we have purchased to date, including pledging the collateral in the Purchase Agreement and filing financing statements in appropriate jurisdictions and will undertake to properly create and perfect security interests in any additional Rights to MSRs that we may purchase from Ocwen in the future. Nonetheless, our security interest may be ruled unenforceable or ineffective by a bankruptcy court. If Ocwen were to file, or to become the subject of, a bankruptcy proceeding under the United States Bankruptcy Code or similar state insolvency laws, Ocwen (as debtor-in-possession in the bankruptcy proceeding) or the bankruptcy trustee could reject the Purchase Agreement and attempt to stop payments to us of the interest income with respect to the Rights to MSRs and terminate our right to acquire those Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights that we have not already acquired. In the event the security interest is declared unenforceable or ineffective, we would be subject to the risk that our claim for any damages from the rejection of the Purchase Agreement or the failure to pay us the interest income with respect to the Rights to MSRs would be treated as a general unsecured claim for purposes of distributions from Ocwen’s bankruptcy estate. In addition, even if the security interest is found to be valid and enforceable, if a bankruptcy court determines that the value of the collateral exceeds the underlying obligation to us, then Ocwen (as debtor-in-possession in the bankruptcy proceeding) or the bankruptcy trustee would have the power (with the approval of the bankruptcy court) to modify the terms of the payment obligations to us, to substitute collateral securing the security interest or to reduce the collateral securing the security interest to a lesser amount deemed “adequate” to secure payment of our claim. Payments made by Ocwen to us could be avoided by a court under federal or state preference laws. If Ocwen were to file, or to become the subject of, a bankruptcy proceeding under the United States Bankruptcy Code or similar state insolvency laws, and our security interest is declared unenforceable or ineffective, payments previously made by Ocwen to us pursuant to the Purchase Agreement may be recoverable on behalf of the bankruptcy estate as preferential transfers. A payment could constitute a preferential transfer if a court were to find that the payment was a transfer of an interest of property of Ocwen that: • Was made to or for the benefit of a creditor; • Was for or on account of an antecedent debt owed by Ocwen before that transfer was made; • Was made while Ocwen was insolvent (a company is presumed to have been insolvent on and during the 90 days preceding the date the company’s bankruptcy petition was filed); • Was made on or within 90 days (or if we are determined to be a statutory insider, on or within one year) before Ocwen’s bankruptcy filing; and • Permitted us to receive more than we would have received in a Chapter 7 liquidation case under applicable bankruptcy laws. If the court were to determine that any payments were avoidable as preferential transfers, we would be required to return such payments to Ocwen’s bankruptcy estate. A sale of Mortgage Servicing Assets or other assets could be re-characterized as a pledge of such assets in a bankruptcy proceeding. If Ocwen’s transfer to us of Mortgage Servicing Assets or any other asset transferred pursuant to the Purchase Agreement were considered to be a sale of such assets, then such assets would not be part of Ocwen’s bankruptcy estate. Ocwen (as debtor-in-possession in the bankruptcy proceeding) or the bankruptcy trustee might assert in a bankruptcy proceeding, however, that mortgage servicing rights or any other asset transferred to us pursuant to the Purchase Agreement were not sold to us but were merely pledged to us as security for Ocwen’s obligation to repay amounts paid by us to Ocwen pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. If 16 Table of Contents such assertion were successful, all or part of the Mortgage Servicing Assets or any other asset transferred to us pursuant to the Purchase Agreement would constitute property of the bankruptcy estate of Ocwen, and our rights against Ocwen would be those of a secured creditor, and not those of an owner, of such assets. Although we will take steps to properly create and perfect a security interest in the assets we have purchased or may purchase in the future pursuant to the Purchase Agreement in case such purchase is re-characterized as a secured financing, the validity or priority of the security interest could be challenged. Payments made to us by Ocwen, or obligations incurred by it, could be avoided by a court under federal or state fraudulent conveyance laws. Ocwen (as debtor-in-possession in the bankruptcy proceeding) or the bankruptcy trustee could also attempt to claim that a sale of Rights to MSRs or other assets by Ocwen to us was a fraudulent conveyance. Under the United States Bankruptcy Code and similar state insolvency laws, payments made, or obligations incurred, could be voided if Ocwen, at the time it made such payment or incurred such obligation: (a) received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for such transfer or incurrence; and (b) either (i) was insolvent at the time of, or was rendered insolvent by reason of, such transfer or incurrence; (ii) was engaged in, or was about to engage in, a business or transaction for which the assets remaining with Ocwen were an unreasonably small capital; or (iii) intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. If any transfer or incurrence is determined to be a fraudulent conveyance, Ocwen (as debtor-in-possession in the bankruptcy proceeding) or the bankruptcy trustee, would be entitled to recover such transfer or to avoid the obligation previously incurred. The Subservicing Agreement could be rejected in a bankruptcy proceeding. If Ocwen were to file, or to become the subject of, a bankruptcy proceeding under the United States Bankruptcy Code or similar state insolvency laws, Ocwen (as debtor-in-possession in the bankruptcy proceeding) or the bankruptcy trustee could reject the Subservicing Agreement and terminate Ocwen’s obligation to service the mortgage loans underlying one or more of the mortgage servicing rights that we have acquired and that Ocwen has agreed to service for us pursuant to the Subservicing Agreement. As we will not have and in the future do not expect to have the employees, servicing platforms or technical resources necessary to service mortgage loans, if the Subservicing Agreement is rejected, we will need to either engage an alternate subservicer which may not be readily available on acceptable terms or at all, or negotiate a new servicing arrangement with Ocwen which would presumably be on less favorable terms to us. Any claim we have for damages arising from the rejection of the Subservicing Agreement, would be treated as a general unsecured claim for purposes of distributions from Ocwen’s bankruptcy estate. Any of the foregoing events might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. Ocwen has triggered termination events or events of default under some PSAs underlying the Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights, and the parties to the related securitization transactions could enforce their rights against Ocwen as a result. If a servicer termination event or event of default occurs under a PSA, the servicer may be terminated without any right to compensation for its loss from the trustee for the securitization trust, other than the right to be reimbursed for any outstanding servicing advances as the related loans are brought current, modified, liquidated or charged off. So long as we are in compliance with our obligations under the Subservicing Agreement and the Purchase Agreement, if Ocwen is terminated as servicer, we will have the right to receive an indemnification payment from Ocwen as servicer, even if such termination related to servicer termination events or events of default existing at the time of any transaction with Ocwen, including with respect to those servicer termination events or events of default that have been triggered in PSAs underlying the Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights as of December 31, 2013. If Ocwen is terminated as servicer with respect to a PSA and Ocwen is unable to make any resulting indemnification payments to us, if any, it may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our ability to pay dividends and may make it more difficult for us to acquire additional mortgage servicing rights in the future. 17 Table of Contents Regulatory scrutiny regarding foreclosure processes could lengthen foreclosure timelines which could increase advances which would negatively impact our liquidity and profitability. When a mortgage loan is in foreclosure, we are generally required to continue to advance delinquent principal and interest to the securitization trust and to also make advances for delinquent taxes and insurance and foreclosure costs and the upkeep of vacant property in foreclosure to the extent we determine that such amounts are recoverable. These servicing advances are generally recovered when the delinquency is resolved. Foreclosure moratoria or other actions that lengthen the foreclosure process increase the amount of servicing advances we are required to make, lengthen the time it takes for us to be reimbursed for such advances and increase the costs incurred during the foreclosure process. In addition, advance financing facilities generally contain provisions that limit the eligibility of servicing advances to be financed based on the length of time that servicing advances are outstanding, and, as a result, an increase in foreclosure timelines could further increase the amount of servicing advances that we need to fund with our own capital. Such increases in foreclosure timelines could increase our need for capital to fund servicing advances which would increase our interest expense, delay the collection of interest income or servicing fee revenue until the foreclosure has been resolved and, therefore, reduce the cash that we have available to pay our operating expenses or to pay dividends. Ocwen recently reached an agreement, which is subject to court approval, involving the CFPB, various state attorneys general and other agencies that regulate the mortgage servicing industry. The agreement has four key elements: • A commitment by the Ocwen to service loans in accordance with specified servicing guidelines and to be subject to oversight by an independent national monitor for three years; • A payment of $127.3 million, which includes a fixed amount for administrative expenses, to a consumer relief fund to be disbursed by an independent administrator to eligible borrowers. Pursuant to indemnification and loss sharing provisions of applicable acquisition documents, approximately half of this consumer relief fund payment is to be funded by the former owners of certain servicing portfolios previously acquired by Ocwen and integrated into Ocwen’s servicing platform. Ocwen previously established a reserve of $66.4 million during the second quarter of 2013 with respect to Ocwen’s portion of the payment into the consumer relief fund. This reserve is expected to cover all but approximately $0.5 million of Ocwen’s portion of the consumer relief fund payment; • A commitment by Ocwen to continue their principal forgiveness modification programs to delinquent and underwater borrowers, including underwater borrowers at imminent risk of default, in an aggregate amount of at least $2.0 billion over three years. These and all Ocwen’s other loan modifications are designed to be sustainable for homeowners and also provide positive net present value outcomes for mortgage loan investors. Principal forgiveness as part of a loan modification is determined on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the applicable servicing agreement; and • Ocwen and the former owners of certain of the acquired servicing portfolios will receive comprehensive releases, subject to certain exceptions, from liability with respect to residential mortgage servicing, modification and foreclosure practices. If the agreement is approved, it will be reflected in a consent judgment of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. We do not have legal ownership of our acquired mortgage servicing rights. We do not have legal ownership of our Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights and are subject to increased risks as a result of Ocwen continuing to own the mortgage servicing rights. The validity or priority of our security interest in the Acquired Mortgage Servicing Rights could be challenged in a bankruptcy proceeding of Ocwen, and the Purchase Agreement could be rejected in such proceeding. See “ – A bankruptcy of Ocwen could adversely affect our business” for an additional discussion of this risk to our company. 18 Table of Contents We may pursue new asset classes with different risk and return characteristics than our Mortgage Servicing Assets. While we expect to continue to purchase Mortgage Servicing Assets from Ocwen or other third parties in the future, we may invest in other asset classes. These new asset classes could include agency servicing advances, mortgage servicing rights to newly originated non-agency loans, FHA guaranteed EBO program loans, warehouse financing on newly originated agency loans or any other similar asset classes. Although we intend to only invest in assets with little credit or valuation risk, the new assets may be more volatile than expected or have a different risk profile compared to our Mortgage Servicing Assets. Risks Related to Taxation We expect to be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes which could subject U.S. Holders to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. We expect to be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A PFIC generally is a foreign corporation if either at least (i) 75% of its gross income is “passive income,” or (ii) 50% of the gross value of its assets is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. If you are a U.S. Holder and do not make a Qualified Electing Fund “QEF” election with respect to us or a mark-to-market election with respect to our ordinary shares, you will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including deferred tax and interest charges with respect to certain distributions on our ordinary shares, any gain realized on a disposition of our ordinary shares and certain other events. The effect of these adverse tax consequences could be materially adverse to you. If you are a U.S. Holder and make a valid, timely QEF election for us, you will not be subject to those adverse tax consequences, but could recognize taxable income in a taxable year with respect to our ordinary shares in excess of any distributions that we make to you in that year, thus giving rise to so-called “phantom income” and to a potential out-of-pocket tax liability. We will provide information to all electing shareholders needed to comply with the QEF election. If you are a U.S. Holder and make a valid, timely mark-to-market election with respect to our ordinary shares, you will recognize as ordinary income or loss in each year that we are a PFIC an amount equal to the difference between your basis in our ordinary shares and the fair market value of the ordinary shares, thus also possibly giving rise to phantom income and a potential out-of-pocket tax liability. Ordinary loss generally is recognized only to the extent of net mark-to-market gains previously included in income. U.S. Holders should be aware that although we currently do not have any subsidiaries that are PFICs, we may form or acquire a subsidiary that is a PFIC in the future. In such event, U.S. Holders will also need to make the QEF election with respect to each such subsidiary in order to avoid the adverse tax consequences described above. We intend to provide all information necessary for U.S. Holders to make the QEF election with respect to any of our subsidiaries that may be classified as a PFIC. U.S. Holders should also be aware that the mark-to-market election generally will not be available with respect to any of our subsidiaries that are a PFIC, rendering such election less beneficial to U.S. Holders than the QEF election. If the IRS determines that we are not a PFIC, and you previously paid taxes pursuant to a QEF election or a mark-to-market election, you may pay more taxes than you legally owe. While we expect to be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our tax counsel has indicated that there is a risk that we will not be treated as such. If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) makes a determination that we are not a PFIC in the future, then you may have paid more taxes than you legally owed due to a QEF or mark-to-market election. If you do not, or are not able to, file a refund claim before the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations, you will not be able to claim a refund for those taxes. Distributions that we pay to individual U.S. Holders will not be eligible for taxation at reduced rates. Distributions made to a U.S. Holder that is an individual will not be eligible for taxation at reduced tax rates generally applicable to dividends paid by certain U.S. corporations and “qualified foreign corporations.” 19 Table of Contents If our ownership of servicing rights were treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States, we would become subject to U.S. federal income taxation which could adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. The IRS could assert that we are engaged in a U.S. trade or business pertaining to the ownership of mortgage servicing rights. If, contrary to our expectations, our ownership of mortgage servicing rights is treated as being engaged in a trade or business in the United States, we would be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxation on a substantial portion of our Net income which would adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. More specifically, if we are treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States, the portion of our Net income, if any, that was “effectively connected” with such trade or business would be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at a maximum rate of 35% as opposed to our expectation that only the income of our U.S. subsidiaries will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at such rate. In addition, we would be subject to the U.S. federal branch profits tax on our effectively connected earnings and profits at a rate of 30%. We may become subject to taxation in the Cayman Islands. The Cayman Islands currently levies no taxes on individuals or corporations based upon profits, income, gains or appreciation and there is no taxation in the nature of inheritance tax or estate duty. Dividend payments are not subject to withholdings tax in the Cayman Islands. There are no other taxes likely to be material to our company levied by the government of the Cayman Islands except for stamp duties that may be applicable on instruments executed in, or after execution brought within the jurisdiction of, the Cayman Islands. The tax treatment of our business in the Cayman Islands is subject to change. Thus, we may become subject to Cayman Islands taxation in the future. We are a Cayman Islands exempted company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by Cayman Islands law and our Articles of Association. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors, the rights of minority shareholders to institute actions and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the latter of which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law than the United States and provide less protection to investors. The laws of the Cayman Island provide only limited circumstances under which shareholders of companies may bring derivative actions and do not afford appraisal rights to dissenting shareholders in the form typically available to shareholders of a U.S. corporation other than in limited circumstances in relation to certain mergers. In addition, a Cayman Islands company may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the U.S. As a result, our shareholders may encounter more difficulty in protecting their interests against actions taken by our management or Board of Directors than they would as shareholders of a public company incorporated in the U.S. 20 Table of Contents You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands exempted company, and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors. In addition, the courts of the Cayman Islands may not recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the U.S. or any state. Furthermore, Cayman Islands courts may not be competent enough to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the securities laws of the U.S. or any state. As a result of the difficulty associated with enforcing a judgment against us, you may not be able to collect any damages awarded by a U.S. court. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 