Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this annual report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. If any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this annual report, you should also carefully review the cautionary statement referred to under “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to the Acquisition of Prestige Significant costs have been incurred in connection with the consummation of the Acquisition of Prestige and are expected to be incurred in connection with the integration of Prestige into our business, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs. Significant costs have been incurred and will be incurred in connection with integrating the operations, products and personnel of Prestige into our business, in addition to costs related directly to completing the Acquisition of Prestige. These costs may include costs for: • employee retention, redeployment, relocation or severance; • integration of information systems; • combination of corporate and administrative functions and processes; and • maintenance and management of our fleet. In addition, we have incurred a number of non-recurring costs associated with combining our operations with those of Prestige. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of 24 Table of Contents our operations with those of Prestige, may offset incremental transaction and transaction-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. In addition, we incurred and assumed new indebtedness in connection with the Acquisition of Prestige. This debt may limit our financial and operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt, which could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness has had, and will continue to have, material consequences for our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition of Prestige. The Acquisition of Prestige involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently. The integration of our operations with those of Prestige is expected to result in financial and operational benefits, including increased revenue and cost savings. There can be no assurance, however, regarding when or the extent to which we will be able to realize these increased revenue, cost savings or other benefits. Integration may also be difficult, unpredictable and subject to delay because of possible company culture conflicts and different opinions on technical decisions and product roadmaps. We must integrate or, in some cases, replace, numerous systems, including those involving management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, employee benefits, payroll, data privacy and security and regulatory compliance, many of which may be dissimilar. Difficulties associated with integration could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with the Acquisition of Prestige, we assumed certain liabilities relating to Prestige’s business. In connection with the Acquisition of Prestige, we have assumed certain potential liabilities relating to Prestige’s business. To the extent we have not identified such liabilities or to the extent the indemnifications obtained from the other parties to the Merger Agreement for the Acquisition of Prestige are insufficient to cover known liabilities, these liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Integrating Prestige’s business into our business may divert our management’s attention away from operations. Successful integration of Prestige’s operations, products and personnel may place a significant burden on our management and other internal resources. The diversion of management’s attention, and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the Acquisition of Prestige we may not be able to retain key personnel or recruit additional qualified personnel, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and require us to incur substantial additional costs to recruit replacement personnel. As a result of the Acquisition of Prestige, our current and prospective employees could experience uncertainty about their future roles. This uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain high-quality employees. Any failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Company The adverse impact of general economic and related factors, such as fluctuating or increasing levels of unemployment, underemployment and the volatility of fuel prices, declines in the securities and real estate markets and perceptions of these conditions can decrease the level of disposable income of consumers or consumer confidence. The demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. The demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. Adverse changes in the perceived or actual economic climate in North America or globally, such as the volatility of fuel prices, higher interest rates, stock and real estate market declines and/or volatility, more restrictive credit markets, higher unemployment or underemployment rates, higher taxes and changes in governmental policies could reduce the level of discretionary income or consumer confidence in the countries from which we source our guests. Consequently, this may negatively affect demand for cruise vacations in these countries, which are a discretionary purchase. Decreases in demand for cruise vacations could result in price discounting, which, in turn, could reduce the profitability of our business. In addition, these conditions could also impact our suppliers, which could result in disruptions in our suppliers’ services and financial losses for us. Conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and risks. We operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. Operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including political risks, risks of increases in duties and taxes, risks relating to anti-bribery laws, as well as risks that laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies may change. Because some of our expenses are incurred in foreign currencies, we are exposed to exchange rate risks. We 25 Table of Contents have historically and may in the future enter into ship construction contracts denominated in euros. While we have entered into foreign currency swaps and collar options to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with such contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portions of the ship construction contracts that have not been hedged. Additionally, if the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. Additional risks include interest rate movements, imposition of trade barriers, restrictions on repatriation of earnings, withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries and changes in and application of foreign taxation structures, including value added taxes. If we are unable to address these risks adequately, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Operating internationally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements. In many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. We have implemented safeguards and policies to prevent violations of various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business by our employees and agents. However, our existing safeguards and policies and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct prohibited by our policies, but for which we nevertheless may be held responsible. If our employees or agents violate our policies, if we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions or if we fail to implement or maintain other adequate safeguards, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions or severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties. Changes in fuel prices and/or other cruise operating costs would impact the cost of our cruise ship operations. Fuel expense accounted for 16.8% of our total cruise operating expense for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to 18.3% and 19.2% for the same periods in 2013 and 2012, respectively. Future increases in the cost of fuel globally would increase the cost of our cruise ship operations. In addition, we could experience increases in other cruise operating costs due to market forces and economic or political instability beyond our control. Despite any fuel hedges we are currently a party to, or may enter into in the future, increases in fuel prices or other cruise operating costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to recover these increased costs through price increases charged to our guests. Our efforts to expand our business into new markets may not be successful. We believe there remains significant opportunity to expand our passenger sourcing into major markets, such as Europe and Australia, as well as into emerging markets in the Asia Pacific region and may undertake such expansion efforts at any time in the future. Expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment. There can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment spent to expand our business into these markets, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from making debt service payments. Our level of indebtedness could limit cash flow available for our operations and could adversely affect our financial condition, operations, prospects and flexibility. Our substantial indebtedness could: •limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, debt service requirements, strategic initiatives or other purposes; •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available to us for other purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business; •make us more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; •make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, the economy or the industry in which we operate; •restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; •restrict us from taking certain actions by means of restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness; •make our credit card processors seek more restrictive terms in respect of our credit card arrangements; and 26 Table of Contents •expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are (and may be in the future) at a variable rate of interest. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours may contain, covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions or prohibitions on our ability to, among other things: •incur or guarantee additional debt or issue certain preference shares; •pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our share capital or make other restricted payments, including the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us and the ability of NCLC to pay dividends or make distributions to NCLH; •repurchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; •make certain investments or acquisitions; •transfer or sell certain assets; •create liens on certain assets; •consolidate or merge with, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets to, other companies; •enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; •pledge the capital stock of any guarantors of our indebtedness; and •designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our existing debt agreements. If any of the holders of our indebtedness accelerate the repayment of such indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. Under our existing debt agreements, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those ratios. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in our existing debt agreements could result in an event of default under such agreements, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of any default under our existing debt agreements, the holders of our indebtedness thereunder: •will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us, if applicable; •could elect to declare all indebtedness outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, if applicable; and/or •could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay such indebtedness. Such actions by the holders of our indebtedness could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the holders of our secured indebtedness could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the indebtedness under our existing debt agreements were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more debt. This could intensify the risks described above. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness at any time in the future. Although the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things: 27 Table of Contents •our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and •our future ability to borrow under certain agreements governing our indebtedness, the availability of which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in such agreements. There can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or that we will be able to borrow additional amounts under our existing debt agreements or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on numerous factors, including but not limited to the condition of the capital markets, our financial condition at such time, credit ratings and the performance of our industry in general. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In the absence of such operating results and resources sufficient to service our debt, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Some or all of our assets may be illiquid and may have no readily ascertainable market value, however, and we may not be able to consummate such dispositions for fair market value or at all. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. Neither our Sponsors nor any of their respective affiliates has any continuing obligation to provide us with debt or equity financing. Additionally, the agreements governing our indebtedness include, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours may include, exceptions to certain covenants that permit us to incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments and take other actions. The impact of volatility and disruptions in the global credit and financial markets may adversely affect our ability to borrow and could increase our counterparty credit risks, including those under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to borrow additional money on terms as favorable as our current debt, on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Economic downturns, including failures of financial institutions and any related liquidity crisis, can disrupt the capital and credit markets. Such disruptions could cause counterparties under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees to be unable to perform their obligations or to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them, which could include failures of financial institutions to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements and to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts and other agreements. Also, we may be limited in obtaining funds to pay amounts due to our counterparties under our derivative contracts and to pay amounts that may become due under other agreements. If we were to elect to replace any counterparty for their failure to perform their obligations under such instruments, we would likely incur significant costs to replace the counterparty. Any failure to replace any counterparties under these circumstances may result in additional costs to us or an ineffective instrument. Terrorist acts, acts of piracy, armed conflict and threats thereof and other international events impacting the security of travel could adversely affect the demand for cruises. Past acts of terrorism and piracy have had an adverse effect on tourism, travel and the availability of air service and other forms of transportation. The threat or possibility of future terrorist acts, an outbreak of hostilities or armed conflict abroad or the possibility thereof, an increase in the activity of pirates operating off the western coast of Africa or elsewhere, political unrest and instability, the issuance of travel advisories by national governments, and other geo-political uncertainties have had in the past and may again in the future have an adverse impact on the demand for cruises, and consequently, the pricing for cruises. Decreases in demand and reduced pricing in response to such decreased demand would adversely affect our business by reducing our profitability. Epidemics and viral outbreaks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Public perception about the safety of travel and adverse publicity related to passenger or crew illness, such as incidents of viral illnesses, stomach flu or other contagious diseases, may impact demand for cruises and result in cruise cancellations and employee absenteeism. If any wide-ranging health scare should occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. We rely on external distribution channels for passenger bookings, and major changes in the availability of external distribution channels could undermine our customer base. The majority of our guests book their cruises through independent travel agents, wholesalers and tour operators. In the event that these distribution channels are adversely impacted by an economic downturn, or by other factors, this could reduce the distribution channels 28 Table of Contents available for us to market and sell our cruises and we could be forced to increase the use of alternative distribution channels we are not accustomed to. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, independent travel agents, wholesalers and tour operators generally sell and market our cruises on a non-exclusive basis. Although we offer commissions and other incentives to them for booking our cruises, there can be no guarantee that our competitors will not offer higher commissions and incentives in the future. Travel agents may face increasing pressure from our competitors, particularly in the North American market, to sell and market our competitors’ cruises exclusively. If such exclusive arrangements were introduced, there can be no assurances that we will be able to find alternative distribution channels to ensure that our customer base would not be affected. We rely on third parties to provide hotel management services for certain of our ships and certain other services, and we are exposed to risks facing such providers. In certain circumstances, we may not be able to replace such third parties or we may be forced to replace them at an increased cost to us. We rely on external third parties to provide hotel management services for certain of our ships and certain other services that are vital to our business. If these service providers suffer financial hardship or are otherwise unable to continue providing such services, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to replace such service providers in a timely manner, which may cause an interruption in our operations. To the extent that we are able to replace such service providers, we may be forced to pay an increased cost for equivalent services. Both the interruption of operations and the replacement of the third-party service providers at an increased cost could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Delays in our shipbuilding program and ship repairs, maintenance and refurbishments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The new construction, refurbishment, repair and maintenance of our cruise ships are complex processes and involve risks similar to those encountered in other large and sophisticated equipment construction, refurbishment and repair projects. Our ships are subject to the risk of mechanical failure or accident, which we have occasionally experienced and have had to repair. If there is a mechanical failure or accident in the future, we may be unable to procure spare parts when needed or make repairs without incurring material expense or suspension of service, especially if a problem affects certain specialized maritime equipment, such as the radar, a pod propulsion unit, the electrical/power management system, the steering gear or the gyro system. In addition, availability, work stoppages, insolvency or financial problems in the shipyards’ construction, refurbishment or repair of our ships, or other “force majeure” events that are beyond our control and the control of shipyards or subcontractors, could also delay or prevent the newbuild delivery, refurbishment and repair and maintenance of our ships. Any termination or breach of contract following such an event may result in, among other things, the forfeiture of prior deposits or payments made by us, potential claims and impairment of losses. A significant delay in the delivery of a new ship, or a significant performance deficiency or mechanical failure of a new ship could also have an adverse effect on our business. The consolidation of the control of certain European cruise shipyards could result in higher prices for refurbishment and repairs due to reduced competition. Also, the lack of qualified shipyard repair facilities could result in the inability to repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. These potential events and the associated losses, to the extent that they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on scheduled commercial airline services for passenger and crew connections. Increases in the price of, or major changes or reduction in, commercial airline services could undermine our customer base or disrupt our operations. A number of our passengers and crew depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to ports of embarkation for our cruises. Increases in the price of airfare due to increases in fuel prices, fuel surcharges, changes in commercial airline services as a result of strikes, weather or other events, or the lack of availability due to schedule changes or a high level of airline bookings could adversely affect our ability to deliver guests and crew to or from our cruise ships and thereby increase our cruise operating expenses which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue is seasonal, owing to variations in passenger fare rates and occupancy levels at different times of the year. We may not be able to generate revenue that is sufficient to cover our expenses during certain periods of the year. The demand for our cruises is seasonal, with greatest demand for cruises generally occurring during the summer months. This seasonality in demand has resulted in fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. The seasonality of our results is increased due to ships being taken out of service for Dry-docks, which we typically schedule during off-peak demand periods for such ships. Accordingly, seasonality in demand and Dry-dock periods could adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to cover the expenses we incur during certain periods of the year. Adverse incidents involving cruise ships and our ability to obtain adequate insurance coverage may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents The operation of cruise ships carries an inherent risk of loss caused by adverse weather conditions and maritime disasters, including, but not limited to, oil spills and other environmental mishaps, fire, mechanical failure, collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, political action, civil unrest and insurrection in various countries and other circumstances or events. Any such event may result in loss of life or property, loss of revenue or increased costs. The operation of cruise ships also involves the risk of other incidents at sea or while in port, including missing guests, inappropriate crew or passenger behavior and onboard crimes, which may bring into question passenger safety, may adversely affect future industry performance and may lead to litigation against us. Although we place passenger safety as the highest priority in the design and operation of our fleet, we have experienced accidents and other incidents involving our cruise ships and there can be no assurance that similar events will not occur in the future. It is possible that we could be forced to cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these factors or incur increased port-related and other costs resulting from such adverse events. Any such event involving our cruise ships or other passenger cruise ships may adversely affect guests’ perceptions of safety or result in increased governmental or other regulatory oversight. An adverse judgment or settlement in respect of any of the ongoing claims against us may also lead to negative publicity about us. Anything that damages our reputation (whether or not justified), including adverse publicity about passenger safety, could have an adverse impact on demand, which could lead to price discounting and a reduction in our sales and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a significant accident, mechanical failure or similar problem involving a ship, we may have to place a ship in an extended Dry-dock period for repairs. This could result in material lost revenue and/or expenditures. There can be no assurance that all risks are fully insured against or that any particular claim will be fully paid. Such losses, to the extent they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could affect our financial results. In addition, we have been and continue to be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity coverage for tort liability. Our payment of these calls and increased premiums could result in significant expenses to us. If we were to sustain significant losses in the future, our ability to obtain insurance coverage or coverage at commercially reasonable rates could be materially adversely affected. Moreover, irrespective of the occurrence of such events, there can still be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or at all. Breaches in data security or other disturbances to our information technology and other networks could impair our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The integrity and reliability of our information technology systems and other networks are crucial to our business operations. Disruptions to these networks could impair our operations and have an adverse impact on our financial results and negatively affect our reputation and customer demand. In addition, certain networks are dependent on third-party technologies, systems and service providers for which there is no certainty of uninterrupted availability. Among other things, actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, floods) or similar events, information systems failures, computer viruses, denial of service attacks and other cyber-attacks may cause disruptions to our information technology, telecommunications and other networks. While we have and continue to invest in business continuity, disaster recovery and data restoration plans, we cannot completely insulate ourselves from disruptions that could result in adverse effects on our operations and financial results. We carry limited business interruption insurance for certain of our shoreside operations, subject to limitations, exclusions and deductibles. We have also made significant investments in our information technology systems to optimize booking procedures, enhance the marketing power of our websites and control costs. Any unauthorized use of our information systems to gain access to sensitive information, corrupt data or create general disturbances in our operations systems could impair our ability to conduct business and damage our reputation. If our security systems were breached, we could be exposed to cyber-related risks and malware, and credit card and other sensitive data could be at risk. In the event of a data security breach of our systems and/or third-party systems, we may incur costs associated with the following: breach response, notification, forensics, regulatory investigations, public relations, consultants, credit identity monitoring, credit freezes, fraud alert, credit identity restoration, credit card cancellation, credit card reissuance or replacement, regulatory fines and penalties, vendor fines and penalties, legal fees and damages. Denial of service attacks may result in costs associated with, among other things, the following: response, forensics, public relations, consultants, data restoration, legal fees and settlement. In addition, data security breaches or denial of service attacks may cause business interruption, information technology disruption, disruptions as a result of regulatory investigation, digital asset loss related to corrupted or destroyed data, damage to our reputation, damages to intangible property and other intangible damages, such as loss of consumer confidence, all of which could impair our operations and have an adverse impact on our financial results. While we have and continue to invest in data and information technology security initiatives, we cannot completely insulate ourselves from the risks of data security breaches and denial of service attacks that could result in adverse effects on our operations and financial results. A failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. Our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated systems and technology. These systems and technologies must be refined, updated and replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis in order for us to meet our customers’ demands and expectations. If we are unable to do so on a timely basis or within reasonable cost parameters, or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train 30 Table of Contents our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. We also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new system or technology, such as fuel abatement technologies, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. Amendments to the collective bargaining agreements for crew members of our fleet and other employee relation issues may materially adversely affect our financial results. Currently, we are a party to six collective bargaining agreements. Three of these agreements are in effect through 2017. Of the three remaining agreements, two are scheduled to expire in 2018 and one is scheduled to expire in 2020. Upon appropriate notice, these agreements may be reopened at certain three-year intervals, and we received notice from two of the parties to reopen wage/benefit negotiations in 2015. These negotiations are scheduled for a completion date of April 1, 2015. Any future amendments to such collective bargaining agreements or inability to satisfactorily renegotiate such agreements may increase our labor costs and have a negative impact on our financial condition. In addition, although our collective bargaining agreements have a no-strike provision, they may not prevent a disruption in work on our ships in the future. Any such disruptions in work could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Unavailability of ports of call may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that attractive port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. The availability of ports, including the specific port facility at which our guests will embark and disembark, is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security, safety and environmental concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, political instability, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and fees, local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists and sanctions programs implemented by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Treasury Department or other regulatory bodies. Any limitations on the availability of ports of call or on the availability of shore excursions and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and damage our reputation. Our business is subject to various U.S. and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. In addition, improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. In certain circumstances, it may not be economical to defend against such matters, and a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. Such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. As a result of any ship-related or other incidents, litigation claims, enforcement actions and regulatory actions and investigations, including, but not limited to, those arising from personal injury, loss of life, loss of or damage to personal property, business interruption losses or environmental damage to any affected coastal waters and the surrounding area, may be asserted or brought against various parties, including us and/or our cruise brands. The time and attention of our management may also be diverted in defending such claims, actions and investigations. Subject to applicable insurance coverage, we may also incur costs both in defending against any claims, actions and investigations and for any judgments, fines, civil or criminal penalties if such claims, actions or investigations are adversely determined. Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment in Which We Operate Future changes in applicable tax laws, or our inability to take advantage of favorable tax regimes, could increase the amount of taxes we must pay. We believe and have taken the position that our income that is considered to be derived from the international operation of ships as well as certain income that is considered to be incidental to such income (“shipping income”), is exempt from U.S. federal income taxes under Section 883 of the Code, based upon certain assumptions as to shareholdings and other information as more fully described in “Item 1—Business—Taxation.” The provisions of Section 883 of the Code are subject to change at any time, possibly with retroactive effect. We believe and have taken the position that substantially all of our income derived from the international operation of ships is properly categorized as shipping income and that we do not have a material amount of non-qualifying income. It is possible, however, that a much larger percentage of our income does not qualify (or will not qualify) as shipping income. Moreover, the exemption for shipping income is only available for years in which NCLH will satisfy complex stock ownership tests or the publicly traded test under Section 883 of the Code as described in “Item 1—Business— Taxation—Exemption of International Shipping Income under Section 883 of the Code.” There are factual circumstances beyond our control, including changes in the direct and indirect owners of NCLH’s ordinary shares, which could cause us or our subsidiaries to lose the benefit of this tax exemption. Finally, any changes in our 31 Table of Contents operations could significantly increase our exposure to either the Net Tax Regime or the 4% Regime (each as defined in “Item 1—Business—Taxation”), and we can give no assurances on this matter. If we or any of our subsidiaries were not to qualify for the exemption under Section 883 of the Code, our or such subsidiary’s U.S.-source income would be subject to either the Net Tax Regime or the 4% Regime (each as defined in “Item 1— Business— Taxation). As of the date of this filing, we believe that NCLH and its subsidiaries will satisfy the publicly traded test imposed under Section 883 and therefore believe that NCLH will qualify for the exemption under Section 883. However, as discussed above, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause NCLH to not meet the stock ownership or publically traded tests. Therefore, we can give no assurances on this matter. We refer you to “Item 1—Business—Taxation.” We may be subject to state, local and non-U.S. income or non-income taxes in various jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business, own property or reside. We may be required to file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. Our state, local or non-U.S. tax treatment may not conform to the U.S. federal income tax treatment discussed above. We may be required to pay non-U.S. taxes on dispositions of foreign property or operations involving foreign property that may give rise to non-U.S. income or other tax liabilities in amounts that could be substantial. The various tax regimes to which we are currently subject result in a relatively low effective tax rate on our worldwide income. These tax regimes, however, are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. For example, legislation has been proposed in the past that would eliminate the benefits of the exemption from U.S. federal income tax under Section 883 of the Code and subject all or a portion of our shipping income to taxation in the United States. Moreover, we may become subject to new tax regimes and may be unable to take advantage of favorable tax provisions afforded by current or future law including exemption of branch profits and dividend withholding taxes under the U.S. – U.K. Income Tax Treaty on income derived in respect of our U.S.–flagged operation. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our operations and any changes in the current laws and regulations could lead to increased costs or decreased revenue. Some environmental groups have lobbied for more extensive oversight of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise industry and its environmental impact. Increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations on environmental protection and health and safety of workers could affect our operations. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the IMO (a United Nations agency with responsibility for the safety and security of shipping and the prevention of marine pollution by ships), the Council of the European Union and individual states are considering, as well as implementing, new laws and rules to manage cruise ship waste. In addition, many aspects of the cruise industry are subject to governmental regulation by the U.S. Coast Guard as well as international treaties such as SOLAS, an international safety regulation, MARPOL, an international environmental regulation, and STCW and its conventions in ship manning. International regulations regarding ballast water and security levels are currently pending. Additionally, the U.S. and various state and foreign government and regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations and policies, such as requiring the use of low-sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements and further restricting emissions, including those of green-house gases. Compliance with such laws and regulations may entail significant expenses for ship modification and changes in operating procedures which could adversely impact our operations as well as our competitors’ operations. In 2006, Alaskan voters approved a ballot measure requiring that cruise ships meet Alaska Water Quality Standards (“WQS”). Pursuant to the ballot measure, Alaska approved stringent regulations and required a waste water discharge permit for cruise ships beginning in 2008. Legislation approved in 2009 allowed the state to issue general permits that contain effluent limits or standards that are less stringent than the WQS where the ship is using economically feasible methods of pollution prevention. In 2013, the state extended the permit program, and allowed ship operators to apply for mixing zones in upcoming permits, an option that may ease compliance with certain WQS. The International Labor Organization’s Maritime Labor Convention, 2006 went into force on August 20, 2013. The Convention regulates many aspects of maritime crew labor and impacts the worldwide sourcing of new crew members. MARPOL regulations have established special Emission Control Areas (“ECAs”) with stringent limitations on sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions. Ships operating in designated ECAs (which include the Baltic Sea, the North Sea/English Channel, and many of the waters within 200 nautical miles of the U.S. and Canadian coasts including the Hawaiian Islands; waters surrounding Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands have been included as of January 2014) are generally expected to meet the new emissions limits through the use of low-sulfur fuels. These issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. This could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. By virtue of our operations in the U.S., the FMC requires us to maintain a third-party performance guarantee on our behalf in respect of liabilities for non-performance of transportation and other obligations to guests. The FMC has proposed rules that would significantly increase the amount of our required guarantees and accordingly our cost of compliance. There can be no assurance that such an increase in the amount of our guarantees, if required, would be available to us. For additional discussion of the FMC’s proposed requirements, we refer you to “Item 1—Business—Regulatory Issues.” In 2007, the state of Alaska implemented taxes, some of which were rolled back in 2010, which have impacted the cruise industry operating in Alaska. It is possible that other states, countries or ports of call that our ships regularly visit may also decide to assess new 32 Table of Contents taxes or fees or change existing taxes or fees specifically applicable to the cruise industry and its employees and/or guests, which could increase our operating costs and/or could decrease the demand for cruises. Risks Related to NCLH’s Ordinary Shares We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of NASDAQ and, as a result, rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. On January 18, 2013, NCLH listed its ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and Genting HK, the Apollo Funds and the TPG Viking Funds, or their respective affiliates, together continue to control a majority of its ordinary shares. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of NASDAQ. Under the rules of NASDAQ, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirement: •that a majority of its Board of Directors consists of independent directors; •that NCLH have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; •that NCLH have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and •for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. NCLH has utilized some of these exemptions. As a result, NCLH does not have a majority of independent directors nor is NCLH required to have any independent directors on its nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees, and NCLH is not required to have an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. Accordingly, its shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to a national securities exchange’s general corporate governance requirements (without giving effect to the “controlled company” exemptions of NASDAQ). NCLH is controlled by the Sponsors, who hold a significant percentage of NCLH’s ordinary shares and whose interests may not be aligned with ours or that of our other security holders. The majority of NCLH’s voting ordinary shares are held by affiliates of Genting HK, the Apollo Funds and the TPG Viking Funds. The shareholders’ agreement governing the relationship among those parties gives the Apollo Funds effective control over our affairs and policies, subject to certain limitations. Genting HK and the Apollo Funds also control the election of NCLH’s board of directors, the appointment of management, the entering into of mergers, sales of substantially all of our assets and other material transactions. The directors appointed by Genting HK and the Apollo Funds have the authority, on our behalf and subject to the terms of our debt agreements and the shareholders’ agreement, to issue additional ordinary shares, implement share repurchase programs, declare dividends, pay advisory fees and make other decisions, and they may have an interest in our doing so. The interests of Genting HK, the Apollo Funds and other funds affiliated with Apollo and the TPG Viking Funds could conflict with our interests and the interests of our other security holders in material respects. Furthermore, Genting HK engages in the cruise industry and leisure, entertainment and hospitality activities and Apollo and TPG are in the business of managing investment funds which make investments in companies, one or more of which has now and may from time to time hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us, as well as businesses that represent major guests of our business. Investment funds managed by Genting HK, Apollo and/or TPG may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as NCLH’s Sponsors continue to control a significant amount of its outstanding voting ordinary shares, such shareholders will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Additionally, the concentration of ownership held by NCLH’s Sponsors could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of us or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination. Shareholders of NCLH may have greater difficulties in protecting their interests than as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. We are a Bermuda exempted company. The Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda (the “Companies Act”), which applies to NCLH, differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Taken together with the provisions of NCLH’s bye-laws, some of these differences may result in you having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of NCLH than you would have as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. This affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our Company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our Company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the Companies Act or NCLH’s bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. 33 Table of Contents NCLH does not have current plans to pay dividends on its ordinary shares. NCLH does not currently intend to pay dividends to its shareholders and NCLH’s Board of Directors may never declare a dividend. Our existing debt agreements restrict, and any of our future debt arrangements may restrict, among other things, the ability of NCLH’s subsidiaries, including NCLC, to pay distributions to NCLH and NCLH’s ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders. In addition, any determination to pay dividends in the future will be entirely at the discretion of NCLH’s Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, business opportunities, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that NCLH’s Board of Directors deems relevant. We are not legally or contractually required to pay dividends. In addition, NCLH is a holding company and would depend upon its subsidiaries for their ability to pay distributions to NCLH to finance any dividend or pay any other obligations of NCLH. Investors seeking dividends should not purchase NCLH’s ordinary shares. Provisions in NCLH’s constitutional documents may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations that NCLH’s shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. NCLH’s bye-laws contain provisions that may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that its shareholders consider to be in their best interests. As a result, these provisions may prevent NCLH’s shareholders from receiving a premium to the market price of NCLH’s shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of NCLH’s shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. These provisions include (subject to the shareholders’ agreement): •the ability of NCLH’s Board of Directors to designate one or more series of preference shares and issue preference shares without shareholder approval; •a classified board of directors; •the sole power of a majority of NCLH’s Board of Directors to fix the number of directors; •the power of NCLH’s Board of Directors to fill any vacancy on NCLH’s Board of Directors in most circumstances, including when such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; and •advance notice requirements for nominating directors or introducing other business to be conducted at shareholder meetings. Additionally, NCLH’s bye-laws contain provisions that prevent third parties, other than the Apollo Funds, the TPG Viking Funds and Genting HK, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of its outstanding shares without the consent of NCLH’s Board of Directors and provide for the lapse of rights, and sale, of any shares acquired in excess of that limit. The effect of these provisions as well as the significant ownership of ordinary shares by our Sponsors may preclude third parties from seeking to acquire a controlling interest in NCLH in transactions that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests and may prevent them from receiving a premium above market price for their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 