ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSAn investment in our ordinary shares involves significant risks. We describe below the principal risks and uncertainties that we believe affect us or could affect us in the future. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. You should carefully read and consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC.Risks Related to Owning Our Ordinary SharesOur ordinary shares may continue to trade even though we are in the process of winding down, and distributions to shareholders, in the aggregate, may be below any trading price.Now that we have completed the Asset Sale, we intend to delist from the Nasdaq Stock Exchange. Trading in our shares is highly speculative, and the market for our shares will be highly illiquid. The only value associated with our shares is the right to receive the Merger Consideration at the time of the consummation of the New Merger or, if not consummated, a final distribution in accordance with the Liquidation Plan. Because of the difficulty in determining whether the Merger will be consummated or estimating the amount and timing of any final distribution and due to other risk factors discussed herein, our ordinary shares may be subject to significant volatility and may trade above the amount that may be ultimately realized by our shareholders.The amount that we have reserved for final distribution to shareholders could be reduced if the New Merger is not approved and for any post-closing liabilities related to the wind down process.We have reserved $50 million of the purchase price paid to us by NRZ for expenses incurred during the wind down process. If the New Merger is not approved, we will incur ongoing expenses to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which will reduce the amount reserved for final distribution to shareholders. We cannot assure you of the exact amount or timing of any final distribution to our shareholders under the Liquidation Plan.The winding down process is subject to numerous uncertainties and may not result in any remaining capital for a final distribution to our shareholders. The precise nature, amount and timing of any final distribution to our shareholders will depend on and could be delayed by, among other things, the approval of the New Merger, the timing of the consummation of the New Merger, the Company’s ongoing operating expenses, administrative and tax filings associated with our winding down, potential claim settlements with creditors arising from obligations incurred subsequent to the Asset Sale and unexpected or greater than expected expenses. If the New Merger does not occur, we expect the final distribution to be delayed. We may conduct future sales of additional ordinary shares or other securities that are dilutive to our equity, which may adversely affect the value of our ordinary shares.We may issue additional ordinary shares or other securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, ordinary shares or any substantially similar securities. The value of our ordinary shares could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of ordinary shares or other similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur.We may not be able to pay monthly dividends on our ordinary shares at the current rate or at all.While we intend to continue to pay monthly dividends at the current rate, we may not be able to do so in the future. We intend to distribute approximately 90% of our Net income over time to our shareholders, although we are not required by law to do so.Our dividend policy is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend, among other things, on cash available for distributions, general economic and business conditions; our strategic plans and prospects; our financial results and condition; contractual, legal and regulatory restrictions on the declaration and payment of dividends by us and such other factors as our Board of Directors considers to be relevant. We note that cash available for distribution may be limited given an agreement between HLSS Holding, our wholly-owned subsidiary HLSS Servicer Advance Facility Transferor, LLC, the Depositor and the Indenture Trustee to permit it to withhold from distribution certain excess funds that would otherwise be distributable to the Depositor in an amount up to the Interest Accrual Differential (or a similar amount) for the related interest accrual period under the HSART Trust indenture. For the purposes of the Agreement, the “Interest Accrual Differential” means, with respect to any interest accrual period under the HSART Trust indenture beginning with the interest accrual period relating to the February 17, 13Table of Contents2015 monthly payment date thereunder and any class of HSART Trust notes issued prior to January 17, 2014, an amount equal to the excess of (a) the related Non-FAE Rate plus 3.00% per annum over (b) the related interest accrual for such class of notes at the Non-FAE Rate.Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryWe are highly dependent upon our senior management team.Our business model and the execution of our business strategy are highly dependent upon the members of our senior management team. The loss of the services of any of our senior executives or key employees could delay or prevent us from executing our business strategy and could significantly and negatively affect our business.We do not intend to operate a mortgage servicing platform and will need to engage servicers to service any Residential Mortgage Assets that we ultimately acquire. We may not be able to engage servicers on terms that are favorable to us or at all.We do not intend to operate a mortgage servicing platform. Our success will depend on our ability to enter into agreements with mortgage servicers to service any Residential Mortgage Assets that we ultimately acquire. The terms of any agreement will be negotiated with the servicer prior to the acquisition of the related Residential Mortgage Assets. If we are not able to engage a servicer under reasonable terms or at all, we may not be able to acquire additional Residential Mortgage Assets, which could negatively impact our profitability.It is unlikely that the term of any agreement we enter into will match the life of any Residential Mortgage Assets that we ultimately acquire and, therefore, such agreements will need to be renewed. As a result, the terms of any new agreement or renewal will depend on the economic environment and the costs of providing servicing at that time. In addition, the terms of any future servicing agreements may not be similar to the terms of our current agreements.We are dependent on others to act as servicer with respect to our Residential Mortgage Assets.We are dependent on the servicers we engage to service our Residential Mortgage Assets. A failure of a servicer to perform its servicing obligations under a related pooling and servicing agreement (“PSA”) could result in the termination of the servicer. If this occurs, we will only have recourse against the servicer, and if the servicer is unable to make any applicable indemnification payments owed to us, we could lose a portion or all of the value of the related Residential Mortgage Asset.On January 23, 2015, Gibbs & Bruns LLP, on behalf of its clients, issued a press release regarding the RMBS Notices provided to various trustees in relation to Ocwen’s servicing practices under 119 residential mortgage-backed securities trusts.We may pursue new asset classes with different risk and return characteristics than our current portfolios of Residential Mortgage Assets.While we expect to continue to purchase Rights to MSRs and Loans held for investment in the future, we may invest in other classes of residential mortgage-related assets. While we intend to invest only in assets with an attractive risk-adjusted yield, the assets we acquire may be more volatile than expected or have a different risk profile compared to our current asset mix.We may not be able to successfully compete for the acquisition of Residential Mortgage Assets, which could adversely affect our business.Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to acquire additional Residential Mortgage Assets on terms consistent with our business and economic model. We expect to compete with independent mortgage loan servicers, mortgage REITs, MSR- and other mortgage-focused mutual or hedge funds, private equity firms and other large financial services companies in acquiring additional Residential Mortgage Assets. Many of our anticipated competitors are significantly larger than we are, have access to greater capital and other resources, are capable of obtaining financing at lower interest rates and may have other advantages over us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could lead them to offer higher prices than we would be willing to pay for the same assets. If we are unable to compete for new assets and our Residential Mortgage Asset portfolio declines over time, our administrative expenses may increase relative to our equity base.14Table of ContentsOur assumptions in determining the purchase price for Residential Mortgage Assets may be inaccurate or the basis for such assumptions may change, which could adversely affect our results of operations.To the extent that we purchase Residential Mortgage Assets in the future, our success will be highly dependent upon accurate pricing of such Residential Mortgage Assets. In determining the purchase price for Residential Mortgage Assets, we will make several significant assumptions, including, but not limited to, the following:•Projected prepayment and repayment rates;•Amounts of future servicing advances;•Projected delinquency and default rates;•Projections of cash flows on loans underlying the assets;•Future interest rates and other financing costs;•Advance rates on our advance financing facilities; and•The costs associated with engaging servicers to service the loans. If any of our assumptions regarding the Residential Mortgage Assets that we acquire are inaccurate or the basis for such assumptions change, the price we pay to acquire Residential Mortgage Assets may prove to be too high, which could result in lower than expected profitability or a loss.Future economic slowdowns and/or deterioration of the housing market could increase delinquencies and defaults on the Residential Mortgage Assets we acquire, which would negatively affect our operating results.During any period in which the borrower is not making payments on a mortgage loan, the servicer is generally required to advance its own funds to meet contractual principal and interest remittance requirements for the securitization trust that owns the mortgage loans; to pay property taxes and insurance premiums; to process foreclosures and to maintain, repair and market foreclosed real estate properties.If the economy slows and/or the housing market deteriorates, our operating results would be adversely affected in the following ways: •Interest Income. Because we recognize interest income as principal and interest payments are collected from the borrowers on the mortgage loans underlying our Rights to MSRs and as delinquent loans are resolved, an increase in delinquencies would reduce the interest income that we recognize. Also, increased delinquencies and defaults could reduce the interest income recognized on any new RPL portfolios we may acquire;•Expenses. If the ratio of advances to the UPB of our portfolio increases beyond a certain point, the increase in Interest expense could exceed the reduction in our incentive fee paid to Ocwen, thus resulting in a reduction to our profitability. Also, servicing expenses charged to us by the servicers of our Loans held for investment would increase; and•Valuation of Rights to MSRs and RPLs. Increased delinquency and default rates on mortgage loans will decrease the fair value of our Rights to MSRs or may result in us recognizing an impairment on any new RPLs we may acquire. A significant increase in prepayment speeds would reduce the UPB of the mortgage loans underlying our Residential Mortgage Assets and could adversely affect our operating results.Prepayment speeds significantly affect our business. Prepayment speed is the measurement of how quickly borrowers pay down the UPB of their loans or how quickly loans are otherwise brought current, modified, liquidated or charged off. Prepayment speeds have a significant impact on our interest income and the valuation of our Residential Mortgage Assets as follows:•Interest Income. If prepayment speeds increase, our interest income earned on our Residential Mortgage Assets will decline more rapidly than estimated because of the greater than expected decrease in the UPB of the mortgage loans on which interest income is based.•Valuation of Residential Mortgage Assets. We base the price we pay for Residential Mortgage Assets on, among other things, our projection of the cash flows from the related pool of mortgage loans. Our expectation of prepayment speeds is a significant assumption underlying those cash flow projections. If prepayment speeds are significantly different 15Table of Contentsthan expected, the fair value of our Residential Mortgage Assets could decline faster than expected, which would have a negative impact on our operating results. If we are unable to maintain the UPB of the mortgage loans underlying our Rights to MSRs at an adequate level through the acquisition of additional Rights to MSRs or other assets with similar characteristics, we would likely reevaluate our long-term business strategy, which could include pursuing asset classes that differ from our current Rights to MSRs. We could also sell our remaining Residential Mortgage Assets and use the proceeds to pay a liquidating distribution to our shareholders. In any such event, our shareholders may not be able to recover the full value of their initial investment in our ordinary shares.If our assumptions regarding subprime and Alt-A borrower refinancing options prove incorrect, or if the Federal government implements policies that help non-agency borrowers refinance, the UPB underlying our Rights to MSRs could decline faster than expected, which would adversely affect our operating results.We make a number of assumptions about future servicing fees, expenses, assets and liabilities relating to our Rights to MSRs. These assumptions are based on our view that subprime and Alt-A borrowers have limited refinancing options. Refinancings and other voluntary prepayments are a small component of total prepayments with liquidations and other involuntary prepayments being the larger component. If subprime and Alt-A borrowers were able to refinance their mortgage loans at a faster rate than expected and had a financial incentive to do so, prepayment speeds could increase, resulting in a faster reduction of the aggregate UPB of the mortgage loans underlying our Rights to MSRs, which would adversely affect our operating results.The fair value of our Rights to MSRs is imprecise and may materially and adversely affect our operating results.The fair value of our Rights to MSRs is based on significant unobservable assumptions that may prove to be imprecise. We engage independent valuation firms to assist in the measurement of the fair value of our Rights to MSRs on a quarterly basis, but the fair value at which our Rights to MSRs is recorded may not be an indication of their realizable value. Ultimate realization of the value of the Rights to MSRs depends to a great extent on economic and other conditions that are beyond our control. Further, fair value is only an estimate based on a good faith judgment of the price at which the Rights to MSRs can be sold since market prices of these assets can only be determined by negotiation between a willing buyer and seller. The estimation of the fair value of our Rights to MSRs includes significant unobservable inputs, and valuations of these assets are subject to judgments that may vary among market participants. Changes in the estimated fair values of our Rights to MSRs are directly charged or credited to earnings for the period. If we were to liquidate the Rights to MSRs, the realized value may be more than or less than the amount at which such assets were recorded. We could be materially and adversely affected by a reduction in the fair value of our Rights to MSRs, and such valuations may fluctuate over short periods of time.The properties underlying Loans held for investment that we acquire through foreclosure may contain unknown environmental defects, which could increase our risk of loss.Environmental protection laws that apply to properties that secure or underlie our Loans held for investment could diminish the value of the properties and result in losses. We may also be exposed to environmental liabilities with respect to properties of which we become a direct or indirect owner or to which we take title, which could adversely affect our business and financial results.If Ocwen fails to adequately perform its loss mitigation obligations, we could be required to make additional servicing advances, and the time period for collecting servicing advances may extend, adversely affecting our liquidity and earnings.Ocwen is required to service the mortgage loans in accordance with specified standards and employ loss mitigation techniques to reduce the probability that borrowers will default on their loans and to minimize losses when defaults occur. These loss mitigation techniques may include the modification of mortgage loan rates, principal balances and maturities. If Ocwen fails to adequately perform its loss mitigation obligations under these agreements, we could be required to purchase or fund servicing advances in excess of those that we might otherwise have had to purchase or fund, and the time period for collecting servicing advances may extend. Any increase in servicing advances or material increase in the time to resolution of a defaulted loan could result in increased financing costs to us and adversely affect our liquidity and Net income.Failure by Ocwen to ensure that servicing advances comply with the terms of the PSAs may have a material adverse effect on our operating results.Servicing advances that are improperly made may not be eligible for financing under our advance financing facilities and may not be reimbursable by the related securitization trusts or other owners of the mortgage loan, which would reduce our 16Table of Contentsliquidity and may cause us to suffer a loss. Ocwen may be unwilling or unable to make indemnification payments for any such losses we incur.We may be unable to obtain sufficient or cost effective servicer advance financing necessary to meet the financing requirements of our business, which could adversely affect our liquidity position and result in a loss of servicing rights.If delinquencies increase with respect to the mortgage loans underlying our Rights to MSRs, we will require more funding than we currently expect, which may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. We currently meet our servicing advance financing requirements through our servicing advance facilities. Under normal market conditions, mortgage servicers typically have been able to renew or refinance liquidity facilities for mortgage servicing rights. However, during the economic crisis that began in 2007, there were periods of time when some mortgage servicers were unable to renew these facilities. Borrowing conditions have improved since that time; however, market conditions or other factors, including legal or regulatory matters applicable to us or our servicers, at the time of any renewal or refinancing may prevent us from being able to renew or refinance our advance financing facilities or obtain additional facilities on favorable terms or at all. Ocwen may not have any obligation to us to fund any servicing advances that we are required to purchase or fund. Our inability to obtain adequate financing to fund servicing advances could result in the loss or impairment of our Rights to MSRs pursuant to the Purchase Agreement and applicable sale supplement. If, for this reason, our Rights to MSRs are lost or impaired, we will bear the full economic impact of this loss and may not, in certain circumstances, have the right to seek indemnification from Ocwen.Failure to favorably resolve alleged events of default by BlueMountain may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operating results.On January 23, 2015, counsel for BlueMountain asserted certain alleged events of default under the indenture governing our notes issued by the HSART Trust. On February 17, 2015, our subsidiary, HLSS Holdings, and the Depositor agreed with the Indenture Trustee that it will not commence a judicial proceeding to seek judicial guidance regarding the allegations made in the BlueMountain letter, and HLSS Holdings has agreed to allow the Indenture Trustee to withhold from distribution certain excess funds that would otherwise be distributable to the Depositor in an amount up to the Interest Accrual Differential (or similar amount). On February 20, 2015, counsel to BlueMountain sent another letter asserting certain alleged events of default under the indenture governing Notes issued by the HSART Trust. While HLSS intends to vigorously defend against any claims asserted by BlueMountain, our inability to resolve these issues favorably could result in a prolonged withholding of the excess funds, the forfeiture of such funds or other material adverse effects on our liquidity and operating results.Our ability to borrow may be adversely affected by the suspension or delay of the rating of our notes by the credit agency providing the ratings.The majority of our advance financing facilities are rated by one rating agency, and this agency may suspend rating notes backed by servicing advances at any time. Rating agency delays may result in our inability to obtain timely ratings on new notes, which could adversely impact the availability of borrowings or the interest rates, advance rates or other financing terms and adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. Further, if we are unable to secure ratings from other agencies, limited investor demand for unrated notes could result in further adverse changes to our liquidity and profitability.Downgrades in our corporate credit ratings could impact our ability to issue term loans within our senior secured term loan facility or a newly created facility.On June 13, 2013, in connection with our senior secured term loan facility agreement, we were issued credit ratings of Ba3/Stable and B+/Stable from Moody’s and S&P, respectively. As of December 31, 2014, our Moody's credit rating had been downgraded to B2/Negative, and on January 14, 2015, our Moody's credit rating was further downgraded to B3/Negative. On January 16, 2015, S&P affirmed their credit rating of B+ but downgraded our outlook from Stable to Negative.Our ability to secure additional financing for servicing advances is largely dependent on the evaluation of the pledged collateral and not on our corporate credit rating. Downgrades in our corporate credit ratings could impact our ability to issue additional term loans within our senior secured term loan facility or a newly created facility.A downgrade in our servicers' or subservicers' rating could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.S&P, Moody’s, Fitch and Morningstar rate many mortgage servicers, including Ocwen. These ratings are subject to change in the future without notice. Servicer ratings are important to our ability to finance servicing advances.17Table of ContentsOn November 14, 2012, S&P placed its “above average” servicer rating on Ocwen on CreditWatch “negative” as opposed to “stable”. S&P stated that it took this action due to Ocwen’s purchases of Homeward Residential Inc. (“ Homeward ”) (which has since been completed) and of the mortgage servicing platform of GMAC Mortgage LLC and Residential Capital LLC (which has since been completed). S&P also stated that it would continue to monitor the impact that these acquisitions have on Ocwen’s servicing operations.On August 28, 2014, Moody's downgraded Ocwen's servicer quality ("SQ") assessments from SQ2- to SQ3+ as a primary servicer of subprime residential loans and as a special servicer of residential mortgage loans. Also, Moody's downgraded Ocwen's component assessment for loan administration from "above average" to "average". Moody's stated that these downgrades were due to heightened regulatory scrutiny by the SEC and the NY DFS, regulatory concerns regarding force-placed insurance fees, and concerns about Ocwen's challenges integrating acquired servicing platforms and managing the distressed loan portfolios.On January 29, 2015, Moody’s downgraded Ocwen’s servicer quality (“SQ”) assessment from “SQ3+” to “SQ3-” as a primary servicer of subprime residential loans and as a special servicer of residential mortgage loans. During February 2015, Fitch Ratings Inc. (“Fitch”) downgraded Ocwen's residential primary servicer rating for subprime products from “RPS3” to “RPS4,” and Morningstar, Inc. (“Morningstar”) downgraded its rating to “MOR RS3.”Certain of our financing facilities require that our servicers or subservicers maintain specified servicer ratings, and failure by our servicers or subservicers to maintain the minimum rating could result in adverse adjustments to our advance rates, liquidity and profitability. In addition, some PSAs may also require that the servicer or subservicer maintain specified servicer ratings. The failure to maintain the specified rating may result in the termination of the servicer under such PSAs. Any such downgrade could have an adverse effect on our business, financing activities, financial condition or results of operations.During February and March 2015, Ocwen received two notices of servicer termination related to four separate PSAs underlying our Notes receivable – Rights to MSRs due to servicer rating downgrades. While we believe the financial impact of the termination of servicing under these four PSAs would be immaterial to our overall financial condition, Ocwen could be subject to further terminations as a result of its failure to maintain required minimum servicer ratings, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financing activities, financial condition and results of operations.Changes in financing terms for our Loans held for investment may adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce our liquidity.We have leveraged our Loans held for investment acquired to date in repurchase agreements with maturities of one year or less. Repurchase agreements generally allow the counterparties to determine the market value of the collateral and are subject to margin calls that could adversely affect our liquidity by requiring us to repay a portion of the outstanding borrowing. To the extent that we do not have sufficient cash to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause us to incur losses. Should market conditions or asset performance expectations deteriorate, we may not be able to refinance our repurchase facilities or enter into longer-term securitization facilities, and this could result in reduced advance rates, higher interest rates or other changes in terms that could adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity.Our borrowings collateralized by Loans held for investment require that we make certain representations and warranties that, if determined to be inaccurate, could require us to repurchase loans or cover losses.Our financing facilities require us to make certain representations and warranties regarding the Loans held for investment that collateralize the borrowings. Although we perform due diligence on the Loans held for investment that we acquire, certain representations and warranties that we make in respect of such loans may ultimately be determined to be inaccurate. In the event of a breach of a representation or warranty, we may be required to repurchase affected loans, make indemnification payments to certain indemnified parties or address any claims associated with such breach. Further, we may have limited or no recourse against the seller from whom we purchased the loans. Such recourse may be limited due to a variety of factors, including the absence of a representation or warranty from the seller corresponding to the representation provided by us or the contractual expiration thereof.The performance of our Loans held for investment may be adversely affected by the performance of parties who service or subservice our mortgage loans.We contract with third parties for the servicing of the mortgage loans in our EBO and RPL whole loan portfolios. The performance of these portfolios and our ability to finance these portfolios are subject to risks associated with inadequate or 18Table of Contentsuntimely servicing. If our servicers or subservicers commit a material breach of their obligations as a servicer, we may be subject to damages if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice. In addition, we may be required to indemnify an investor or our lenders against losses from any failure of our servicer or subservicer to perform the servicing obligations properly. Poor performance by a servicer or subservicer may result in greater than expected delinquencies and foreclosures and losses on our mortgage. A substantial increase in our delinquency or foreclosure rate or the inability to process claims in accordance with GNMA or FHA guidelines could adversely affect our ability to access the capital and secondary markets for our financing needs.Representations and warranties made by us in our loan sale agreements may subject us to liability.In connection with our sale of the RPLs to an unrelated third party, we transferred mortgages acquired by us into a trust in exchange for cash. We may enter into additional sale agreements to sell some or all of our Loans held for investment in the future. The purchaser under such sale agreements may have recourse to us with respect to any breach of the representations and warranties made by us at the time the applicable Loans held for investment are sold. Those representations and warranties may include, but are not limited to, issues such as the validity of the lien; the absence of delinquent taxes or other liens; the loans compliance with all local, state and federal laws and the delivery of all documents required to perfect title to the lien. If the purchaser is successful in asserting their claim for recourse, it could adversely affect the availability of financing under our financing facilities for the Loans held for investment or otherwise adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity.We could have conflicts with Ocwen and Altisource, and members of our Board of Directors or management could have conflicts of interest due to their relationships with Ocwen and Altisource that may be resolved in a manner adverse to us.We do a substantial amount of business with Ocwen and Altisource. Conflicts may arise between us and one or more of these entities because of the ongoing agreements we have with them or because of the nature of each of our respective businesses.Our former Chairman of the Board of Directors was also the Chairman of Ocwen and Altisource until January 16, 2015. As a result, he had obligations to us as well as to Ocwen and Altisource and may have had or have appeared to have had conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us, Ocwen and Altisource, as the case may be. Our former Chairman currently has substantial investments in Ocwen and Altisource and certain of our other officers own stock or options in Ocwen. Such ownership interests could create or appear to create conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us, Ocwen and Altisource, as the case may be.We have adopted policies, procedures and practices to avoid potential conflicts with respect to our dealings with Ocwen and Altisource. We also manage potential conflicts of interest through oversight by independent members of our Board of Directors (independent directors constitute a majority of our Board of Directors) and we will seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute resolution and other provisions of our agreements with Ocwen and Altisource, as the case may be. There can be no assurance that such measures will be effective, that we will be able to resolve all conflicts with Ocwen and Altisource, as the case may be, or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with a third party that had none of the connections we have with these businesses.Risk Related to Regulatory and Legal MattersIf we are required to register under the Investment Company Act, our ability to conduct our business could be materially adversely affected, and you could suffer losses.We are not registered, and do not intend to register, as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”). We intend to conduct our operations directly and through wholly or majority-owned operating subsidiaries so that we and each of our subsidiaries is not an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We believe that neither we nor our operating subsidiaries will be considered an investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act because neither we nor our operating subsidiaries will engage primarily, or hold ourselves or our operating subsidiaries out as being engaged primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Rather, we, through our operating subsidiaries, are primarily engaged in the non-investment company business of these subsidiaries, namely the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring Residential Mortgage Assets and engaging and managing one or more residential mortgage loan servicers to service the pools of mortgage loans underlying these Residential Mortgage Assets. We structured the special purpose entities that we established in connection with our match funded advance financing facilities to rely on the investment company exemption provided to certain structured financing vehicles by Rule 3a-7 promulgated pursuant to the Investment Company Act.19Table of ContentsIf, however, we or any of our subsidiaries are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements, and our activities may be restricted, among other things which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. We may also seek exemptive relief from the SEC, which could impose significant costs on our business. If we or any of our subsidiaries were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, the unregistered entity would be prohibited from engaging in business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against such unregistered entity. In addition, the contracts of such unregistered entity would be unenforceable unless a court required enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of such unregistered entity and to liquidate the unregistered entity, which could lead to losses to our shareholders.If we are named in legal proceedings involving one of our servicers, our financial results could be adversely affected.We could be added as a defendant or investigated in any matters related to our servicers' servicing practices. If lawsuits are brought against one or more of our servicers regarding its servicing practices, we also may be added as a defendant in the future. Defending ourselves against lawsuits or adverse legal judgments against us may require that we pay significant legal fees, settlement costs, damages, penalties, indemnification payments or other charges or that we undertake remedial actions pursuant to administrative orders or court-issued injunctions, any of which could adversely affect our financial results and loss or impairment of financing under financial arrangements, including our advance financing facilities.Two shareholder derivative actions have been filed purportedly on behalf of Ocwen Financial Corporation naming as defendants the Company and certain current and former directors and officers of Ocwen, including former HLSS Chairman William C. Erbey, entitled (i) Sokolowski v. Erbey, et al., No. 9:14-CV-81601 (S.D. Fla.), filed on December 24, 2014 (the Sokolowski Action”), and (ii) Mocavage v. Faris, et al., No. 2015CA003244 (Fla. Palm Beach Cty. Ct.), filed on March 20, 2015 (collectively, with the Sokolowski Action, the “Ocwen Derivative Actions”). The original complaint in the Sokolowski Action named as defendants certain current and former directors and officers of Ocwen, including former HLSS Chairman William C. Erbey. On February 11, 2015, plaintiff in the Sokolowski Action filed an amended complaint naming additional defendants, including HLSS. The Ocwen Derivative Actions assert a cause of action for aiding and abetting certain alleged breaches of fiduciary duty under Florida law against HLSS and others, and claim that HLSS (i) substantially assisted Ocwen’s alleged wrongful conduct by purchasing Ocwen’s mortgage servicing rights and (ii) received improper benefits as a result of its business dealings with Ocwen due to Mr. Erbey’s purported control over both HLSS and Ocwen. Additionally, the Sokolowski Action asserts a cause of action for unjust enrichment against HLSS and others. The Company intends to vigorously defend the Ocwen Derivative Actions (see Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 18, Commitments and Contingencies").Failure by Ocwen or our other servicers to comply with applicable laws and regulations may adversely affect our business.The failure of Ocwen or our other servicers to comply with the laws and regulations in connection with servicing mortgage loans underlying our Residential Mortgage Assets could lead to civil and criminal liability, loss of licensing, damage to our reputation, fines and penalties, litigation, including class action lawsuits or administrative enforcement actions, and a loss or impairment of financing under our financing arrangements, including under our advance financing facilities.Regulatory scrutiny regarding foreclosure processes could lengthen foreclosure timelines, which could increase advances and negatively impact our liquidity and profitability.When a mortgage loan is in foreclosure, the servicer is generally required to continue to advance delinquent principal and interest to the securitization trust and to also make advances for delinquent taxes and insurance and foreclosure costs and the upkeep of vacant property in foreclosure to the extent we determine that such amounts are recoverable. These servicing advances are generally recovered when the delinquency is resolved. Foreclosure moratoria or other actions that lengthen the foreclosure process increase the amount of servicing advances, lengthen the time it takes for reimbursement of such advances and increase the costs incurred during the foreclosure process. In addition, advance financing facilities generally contain provisions that limit the eligibility of servicing advances to be financed based on the length of time that servicing advances are outstanding, and, as a result, an increase in foreclosure timelines could further increase the amount of servicing advances that need to be funded from the servicer's own capital. Such increases in foreclosure timelines could increase the need for capital to fund servicing advances, which would increase our interest expense, delay the collection of interest income or servicing fee revenue until the foreclosure has been resolved and, therefore, reduce the cash that we have available to pay our operating expenses or to pay dividends.Ocwen has publicly announced that, on December 19, 2013, Ocwen reached an agreement, which was approved by consent judgment by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on February 26, 2014, involving the CFPB, various state 20Table of Contentsattorneys general and other agencies that regulate the mortgage servicing industry. According to Ocwen's disclosure, the key elements of the settlement are as follows:•A commitment by Ocwen to service loans in accordance with specified servicing guidelines and to be subject to oversight by an independent national monitor for three years;•A payment of $127.3 million to a consumer relief fund to be disbursed by an independent administrator to eligible borrowers. In May 2014, Ocwen satisfied this obligation with regard to the consumer relief fund, $60.4 million of which is the responsibility of former owners of certain servicing portfolios acquired by Ocwen, pursuant to indemnification and loss sharing provisions in the applicable agreements;•A commitment by Ocwen to continue its principal forgiveness modification programs to delinquent and underwater borrowers, including underwater borrowers at imminent risk of default, in an aggregate amount of at least $2.0 billion over three years.On December 22, 2014, Ocwen announced that it had reached a settlement agreement with the NY DFS related to investigations into Ocwen's mortgage servicing practices in the State of New York. According to Ocwen's disclosure, the key elements of the settlement are as follows:•Payment of $100 million to the NY DFS to be used by the State of New York for housing, foreclosure relief and community redevelopment programs;•Payment of $50 million as restitution to certain New York borrowers;•Installation of a NY DFS Operations Monitor to review and assess the adequacy and effectiveness of Ocwen's operations for a period of two years, which may be extended another twelve months at the option of the NY DFS;•Requirements that Ocwen will not share any common officers or employees with any related party and will not share risk, internal audit or vendor oversight functions with any related party;•Requirements that certain Ocwen employees, officers and directors be recused from negotiating or voting to approve certain transactions with a related party;•Resignation of Ocwen's Chairman of the Board from the Board of Directors of Ocwen and at related companies, including HLSS; and•Restrictions on Ocwen's ability to acquire new mortgage servicing rights.On January 23, 2015, Ocwen announced that it had reached a settlement with the CA DBO in relation to an action dated October 3, 2014 in the State of California. According to Ocwen's disclosure, the key elements of the agreement are as follows:•Payment of $2.5 million;•Engagement of an independent auditor to assess Ocwen’s compliance with laws and regulations impacting California borrowers for a period of at least two years; and•Prevention of Ocwen from acquiring additional mortgage servicing rights for loans secured in the State of California until the CA DBO is satisfied that Ocwen can satisfactorily respond to the requests for information and documentation made in the course of a regulatory exam.According to Ocwen's public disclosure, on April 28, 2014, Ocwen received a letter from the staff of the New York Regional Office of the SEC informing Ocwen that the SEC was conducting an investigation relating to Ocwen and making a request for voluntary production of documents and information relating to the April 22, 2014 surrender of certain options to purchase its common stock by Mr. Erbey, its former Executive Chairman, including the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan and the related option grant and surrender documents. On June 12, 2014, Ocwen received a subpoena from the SEC requesting production of various documents relating to its business dealings with HLSS, Altisource, AAMC and Residential and the interests of its directors and executive officers in these companies. Ocwen has also disclosed that it received an additional subpoena from the SEC related to its amendments to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2014.Regulatory action against Ocwen could increase our financing costs or operating expenses, reduce our revenues or otherwise adversely affect our business, liquidity profitability.Regulatory actions regarding our servicers' or subservicers' servicing practices could impact our liquidity and profitability.According to Ocwen's public disclosure, on April 28, 2014, Ocwen received a letter from the staff of the New York Regional Office of the SEC informing Ocwen that the SEC was conducting an investigation relating to Ocwen and making a request for voluntary production of documents and information relating to the April 22, 2014 surrender of certain options to purchase its 21Table of Contentscommon stock by Mr. Erbey, its former Executive Chairman, including the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan and the related option grant and surrender documents. On June 12, 2014, Ocwen received a subpoena from the SEC requesting production of various documents relating to its business dealings with HLSS, Altisource, AAMC and Residential and the interests of its directors and executive officers in these companies. Ocwen has also disclosed that it received an additional subpoena from the SEC related to its amendments to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2014.Governmental bodies may further restrict our transactions with related parties or institute policies that adversely affect our servicers' business, which could increase our operating expenses, reduce our revenues or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to grow.Our business strategy, including our asset purchase strategy, may be affected by regulatory considerations. The recent trend among federal, state and local lawmakers and regulators has been toward increasing laws, regulations and investigative proceedings with regard to residential mortgage servicing. Our success in part depends on our ability to purchase additional Residential Mortgage Assets and engage mortgage servicers to service these assets. If regulators restrict any aspect of our or our servicers' business strategy, including Ocwen’s ability to transact business with us, we may be required to alter our strategy, which could include revisions to our Residential Mortgage Asset purchase plans or changes with respect to our mortgage servicing arrangements. Any restrictions imposed on Ocwen’s ability to transact business with us could have a material adverse impact on our business. Ocwen has disclosed that it is subject to a number of federal and state regulatory investigations, examinations, inquiries and requests for information that have resulted or could, in the future, result in adverse regulatory action against Ocwen. One or more of such regulatory actions or Ocwen’s failure to comply with any commitments it makes with respect to such regulatory actions could adversely affect Ocwen’s business or impose additional requirements or restrictions on its activities. Regulatory action against Ocwen could increase our operating expenses, reduce our revenues or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to grow. A bankruptcy of Ocwen could adversely affect our business.If Ocwen becomes subject to a bankruptcy proceeding, our business could be materially adversely affected, and you could suffer losses.A sale of Residential Mortgage Assets or other assets could be re-characterized in an Ocwen bankruptcy proceeding as a financing secured by such Residential Mortgage Assets. We believe that Ocwen’s transfer to us of Residential Mortgage Assets and any other asset transferred pursuant to the Purchase Agreement constitutes a sale of such assets, in which case such assets would not be part of Ocwen’s bankruptcy estate. Ocwen (as debtor-in-possession in the bankruptcy proceeding), a bankruptcy trustee appointed in Ocwen’s bankruptcy proceeding, or any other party in interest, however, might assert in a bankruptcy proceeding that Residential Mortgage Assets or any other assets transferred to us pursuant to the Purchase Agreement were not sold to us but were instead pledged to us as security for Ocwen’s obligation to repay amounts paid by us to Ocwen pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. If such assertion were successful, all or part of the Residential Mortgage Assets or any other asset transferred to us pursuant to the Purchase Agreement would constitute property of the bankruptcy estate of Ocwen, and our rights against Ocwen would be those of a secured creditor with a lien on such assets. Under such circumstances, cash proceeds generated from our collateral would constitute “cash collateral” under the provisions of the U.S. bankruptcy laws. Under U.S. bankruptcy laws, Ocwen could not use our cash collateral without either (a) our consent or (b) approval by the bankruptcy court, subject to providing us with "adequate protection" under the U.S. bankruptcy laws. In addition, under such circumstances, an issue could arise as to whether certain of these assets generated after the commencement of the bankruptcy proceeding would constitute after-acquired property excluded from our lien pursuant to the U.S. bankruptcy laws.If such a recharacterization occurs, the validity or priority of our security interest in the Residential Mortgage Assets or other assets could be challenged in a bankruptcy proceeding of Ocwen. If the purchases pursuant to the Purchase Agreement are recharacterized as secured financings as set forth above, we nevertheless created and perfected security interests with respect to the Residential Mortgage Assets and other assets that we have purchased from Ocwen to date by including a pledge of collateral in the Purchase Agreement and filing financing statements in appropriate jurisdictions. We will undertake to properly create and perfect security interests in any additional Residential Mortgage Assets and other assets that we may purchase from Ocwen in the future. Nonetheless, our security interests may be challenged and ruled unenforceable or ineffective by a bankruptcy court. If this were to occur, then Ocwen’s obligations to us with respect to purchased Residential Mortgage Assets and other assets would be deemed unsecured obligations, payable from unencumbered assets to be shared among all of Ocwen’s unsecured creditors. In addition, even if the security interests are found to be valid and enforceable, if a bankruptcy court determines that the value of the 22Table of Contentscollateral is less than Ocwen’s underlying obligations to us, the difference between such value and the total amount of such obligations will be deemed an unsecured “deficiency” claim and the same result will occur with respect to such unsecured claim. In addition, even if the security interest is found to be valid and enforceable, Ocwen would have the right to use the proceeds of our collateral subject to either (a) our consent or (b) approval by the bankruptcy court, subject to providing us with “adequate protection” under U.S. bankruptcy laws. Ocwen also would have the ability to confirm a chapter 11 plan over our objections if the plan complied with the “cramdown” requirements under U.S. bankruptcy laws.If the sale of Residential Mortgage Assets or other assets is recharacterized as a secured financing, payments made by Ocwen to us prior to Ocwen commencing its bankruptcy proceeding could be challenged and subject to recovery as preferential transfers. If Ocwen were to become the subject of a bankruptcy proceeding under the United States Bankruptcy Code, there is a recharacterization as set forth above and our security interests are declared unenforceable, ineffective or subordinated, payments previously made by Ocwen to us pursuant to the Purchase Agreement may be recoverable on behalf of the bankruptcy estate as preferential transfers. A payment could constitute a preferential transfer under U.S. bankruptcy laws if the bankruptcy court were to find that the payment was a transfer of an interest of property of Ocwen that: •Was made to or for the benefit of a creditor;•Was for or on account of an antecedent debt owed by Ocwen before that transfer was made;•Was made while Ocwen was insolvent (a company is presumed to have been insolvent on and during the 90 days preceding the date the company’s bankruptcy petition was filed);•Was made on or within 90 days (or if we are determined to be a statutory insider, on or within one year) before Ocwen’s bankruptcy filing; •Permitted us to receive more than we would have received in a chapter 7 liquidation case of Ocwen under U.S. bankruptcy laws; and•Was a payment as to which none of the statutory defenses to a preference action apply.If the bankruptcy court were to determine that any payments were avoidable as preferential transfers, we would be required to return such payments to Ocwen’s bankruptcy estate and would have an unsecured claim against Ocwen with respect to such returned amounts.Payments made to us by Ocwen, or obligations incurred by Ocwen to us, could be challenged as fraudulent conveyances. Ocwen (as debtor-in-possession in the bankruptcy proceeding), a bankruptcy trustee appointed in Ocwen’s bankruptcy proceeding, or another party in interest could also claim that Ocwen’s transfer to us of Residential Mortgage Assets or other assets or Ocwen’s agreement to incur obligations to us under the Purchase Agreement was a fraudulent conveyance. Under U.S. bankruptcy laws and similar state insolvency laws, transfers made or obligations incurred could be voided if Ocwen, at the time it made such transfers or incurred such obligations: (a) received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for such transfer or incurrence and (b) either (i) was insolvent at the time of, or was rendered insolvent by reason of, such transfer or incurrence; (ii) was engaged in, or was about to engage in, a business or transaction for which the assets remaining with Ocwen were an unreasonably small capital; or (iii) intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. If any transfer or incurrence is determined to be a fraudulent conveyance, Ocwen (as debtor-in-possession in the bankruptcy proceeding) or a bankruptcy trustee on Ocwen’s behalf would be entitled to recover such transfer or to avoid the obligation previously incurred.The Purchase Agreement could be rejected in an Ocwen bankruptcy proceeding. Ocwen (as debtor-in-possession in the bankruptcy proceeding) or a bankruptcy trustee appointed in Ocwen’s bankruptcy proceeding could seek to reject the Purchase Agreement and thereby terminate Ocwen's obligation to service the Residential Mortgage Assets, attempt to stop transferring to us the Residential Mortgage Assets and any other asset transferred pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, and terminate our right to acquire additional assets under the Purchase Agreement and our right to require Ocwen to use commercially reasonable efforts to transfer servicing. If the bankruptcy court approved the rejection, we would have a claim against Ocwen for any damages from the rejection.A bankruptcy court could stay a transfer of servicing to another servicer. Our ability to require Ocwen to use commercially reasonable efforts to transfer servicing rights to a new servicer would be subject to the automatic stay in Ocwen’s bankruptcy proceeding. To enforce this right, we would have to seek relief from the bankruptcy court to lift such stay, and there is no assurance that the bankruptcy court would grant this relief.Ocwen could discontinue servicing. If Ocwen were to file or to become the subject of a bankruptcy proceeding under the United States Bankruptcy Code, Ocwen could be terminated as servicer (with bankruptcy court approval) or could discontinue 23Table of Contentsservicing, in which case there is no assurance that we would be able to continue receiving payments and transfers in respect of the Residential Mortgage Assets and other assets purchased under the Purchase Agreement. Even if we were able to obtain the servicing rights, because we will not have and in the future do not expect to have the employees, servicing platforms, or technical resources necessary to service mortgage loans, we would need to either engage an alternate servicer (which may not be readily available on acceptable terms or at all) or negotiate a new servicing agreement with Ocwen, which presumably would be on less favorable terms to us. Any engagement of an alternate servicer by us would require the approval of the related RMBS trustees.The automatic stay under the United States Bankruptcy Code may prevent the ongoing receipt of servicing fees or other amounts due. Even if we are successful in arguing that we own Residential Mortgage Assets and other assets purchased under the Purchase Agreement, we may need to seek relief in the bankruptcy court to obtain turnover and payment of amounts relating to such assets, and there may be difficulty in recovering payments in respect of such assets that may have been commingled with other funds of Ocwen.A bankruptcy of Ocwen defaults our advance financing facilities and negatively impacts our ability to continue to purchase servicing advances. If Ocwen were to file or to become the subject of a bankruptcy proceeding, it will result in an event of default under our advance financing facilities that would terminate the revolving period of such facilities. In this scenario, our advance financing facilities would not have the ability to continue funding the purchase of servicing advances under the Purchase Agreement. Notwithstanding this inability to fund, Ocwen may try to force us to continue making such purchases. Although we may have contractual and legal arguments in response, there is a risk that such arguments would not be successful. If it is determined that we are in breach of our obligation to purchase servicing advances, any claims that we may have against Ocwen may be subject to offset against claims Ocwen may have against us by reason of this breach. Any of the foregoing events might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results.Ocwen has triggered termination events or events of default under some PSAs underlying the Rights to MSRs, and the parties to the related securitization transactions could enforce their rights against Ocwen as a result.If a servicer termination event or event of default occurs under a PSA, the servicer may be terminated without any right to compensation for its loss from the trustee for the securitization trust, other than the right to be reimbursed for any outstanding servicing advances as the related loans are brought current, modified, liquidated or charged off. So long as we are in compliance with our obligations under our servicing agreements and purchase agreements, if Ocwen is terminated as servicer, we will have the right to receive an indemnification payment from Ocwen as servicer, even if such termination related to servicer termination events or events of default existing at the time of any transaction with Ocwen, including with respect to those servicer termination events or events of default that have been triggered in PSAs underlying the mortgage servicing rights as of December 31, 2014. If Ocwen is terminated as servicer with respect to a PSA and we are unable to enforce our contractual rights against Ocwen or Ocwen is unable to make any resulting indemnification payments to us, if any, it may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our ability to pay dividends, our financing arrangements, including our advance financing facilities, and may make it more difficult for us to acquire additional mortgage servicing rights in the future.On January 23, 2015, Gibbs & Bruns LLP, on behalf of its clients, issued a press release regarding the RMBS Notices provided to various trustees in relation to Ocwen’s servicing practices under 119 residential mortgage-backed securities trusts.On January 29, 2015, Moody’s downgraded Ocwen’s SQ assessment from SQ3+ to SQ3- as a primary servicer of subprime residential loans and as a special servicer of residential mortgage loans. During February 2015, Fitch Ratings downgraded Ocwen's residential primary servicer rating for subprime products from “RPS3” to “RPS4,” and Morningstar downgraded its rating to “MOR RS3.”Servicing issues in our portfolio of Loans held for investment could adversely impact our claims against FHA insurance and result in our reliance on servicer indemnifications which could increase the risk of losses.We rely on our servicers to service our GNMA EBO loans in a manner that supports our ability to make claims to the FHA for shortfalls on these loans. If servicing issues result in the curtailment of FHA insurance claims, we will only have recourse against the servicer for any shortfall. If the servicer is unable to make indemnification payments owed to us under this circumstance, we could incur losses. 24Table of ContentsWe do not have legal ownership of our acquired mortgage servicing rights.We do not have legal ownership of mortgage servicing rights underlying our Rights to MSRs and are subject to increased risks as a result of the servicer continuing to own the mortgage servicing rights. The validity or priority of our interest in the underlying mortgage servicing could be challenged in a bankruptcy proceeding of the servicer, and the related purchase agreement could be rejected in such proceeding. See “ – A bankruptcy of Ocwen could adversely affect our business ” for an additional discussion of this risk to the Company.We have received subpoenas from the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our previously announced restatement of our financial statements and regarding communications with certain investors.In August 2014, we restated our consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2014, and for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, including the quarterly periods within those years, to correct the valuation and the related effect on amortization of our Notes receivable – Rights to MSRs that resulted from a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, which has since been remediated.On September 15, 2014 we received a subpoena from the SEC requesting that we provide certain information related to our prior accounting conventions for and valuations of our Notes receivable – Rights to MSRs that resulted in the restatement. On December 22, 2014 we received a supplemental subpoena from the SEC requesting that we provide information related to certain governance documents and transactions and select communications in respect of the same. On March 23, 2015, the Company received a subpoena from the SEC requesting that it provide information concerning communications between the Company and certain investment advisors and hedge funds. The SEC also requested documents relating to the Company’s structure, certain governance documents and any investigations or complaints connected to trading in the Company’s securities.We cannot guarantee that we will not receive further regulatory inquiries or be subject to litigation regarding the subject matter of the subpoenas or matters relating thereto or that the existing inquiries, or, should they occur, any future regulatory inquiries or litigation, will not consume internal resources, result in additional legal and consulting costs or negatively impact our stock price.We are a Cayman Islands exempted company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law.Our corporate affairs are governed by Cayman Islands law and our Articles of Association. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors, the rights of minority shareholders to institute actions and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the latter of which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law than the United States and provides less protection to investors. The laws of the Cayman Islands provide only limited circumstances under which shareholders of companies may bring derivative actions and do not afford appraisal rights to dissenting shareholders in the form typically available to shareholders of a U.S. corporation other than in limited circumstances in relation to certain mergers.In addition, a Cayman Islands company may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the U.S. As a result, our shareholders may encounter more difficulty in protecting their interests against actions taken by our management or Board of Directors than they would as shareholders of a public company incorporated in the U.S.You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us.We are a Cayman Islands exempted company, and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors. In addition, the courts of the Cayman Islands may not recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the U.S. or any state. Furthermore, Cayman Islands courts may not be willing or able to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands against us or our directors and officers 25Table of Contentspredicated upon the securities laws of the U.S. or any state. As a result of the difficulty associated with enforcing a judgment against us, you may not be able to collect any damages awarded by a U.S. court.The Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors were named as parties in class action and derivative lawsuits, which could be costly, protracted, divert management’s attention and harm our business.Three putative class action lawsuits have been filed against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York entitled: (i) Oliveira v. Home Loan Servicing Solutions, Ltd., et al., No. 15-CV-652 (S.D.N.Y.), filed on January 29, 2015; (ii) Berglan v. Home Loan Servicing Solutions, Ltd., et al., No. 15-CV-947 (S.D.N.Y.), filed on February 9, 2015; and (iii) W. Palm Beach Police Pension Fund v. Home Loan Servicing Solutions, Ltd., et al., No. 15-CV-1063 (S.D.N.Y.), filed on February 13, 2015. These three lawsuits are collectively referred to as the “New York Actions.”The New York Actions name as defendants HLSS, former HLSS Chairman William C. Erbey, HLSS Director, President, and Chief Executive Officer John P. Van Vlack, and HLSS Chief Financial Officer James E. Lauter. The New York Actions assert causes of action under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 based on certain public disclosures made by the Company relating to our relationship with Ocwen. These actions allege that HLSS misled investors by failing to disclose, among other things, the extent of HLSS’s dependence on Ocwen, information regarding governmental investigations of Ocwen’s business practices, and the Company’s own purportedly inadequate internal controls. The Company intends to vigorously defend the New York Actions.Two shareholder derivative actions have been filed purportedly on behalf of Ocwen Financial Corporation naming as defendants the Company and certain current and former directors and officers of Ocwen, including former HLSS Chairman William C. Erbey, entitled (i) Sokolowski v. Erbey, et al., No. 9:14-CV-81601 (S.D. Fla.), filed on December 24, 2014 (the “Sokolowski Action”), and (ii) Mocavage v. Faris, et al., No. 2015CA003244 (Fla. Palm Beach Cty. Ct.), filed on March 20, 2015 (collectively, with the Sokolowski Action, the “Ocwen Derivative Actions”). The original complaint in the Sokolowski Action named as defendants certain current and former directors and officers of Ocwen, including former HLSS Chairman William C. Erbey. On February 11, 2015, plaintiff in the Sokolowski Action filed an amended complaint naming additional defendants, including HLSS. The Ocwen Derivative Actions assert a cause of action for aiding and abetting certain alleged breaches of fiduciary duty under Florida law against HLSS and others, and claim that HLSS (i) substantially assisted Ocwen’s alleged wrongful conduct by purchasing Ocwen’s mortgage servicing rights and (ii) received improper benefits as a result of its business dealings with Ocwen due to Mr. Erbey’s purported control over both HLSS and Ocwen. Additionally, the Sokolowski Action asserts a cause of action for unjust enrichment against HLSS and others. The Company intends to vigorously defend the Ocwen Derivative Actions.On March 11, 2015, plaintiff David Rattner filed a shareholder derivative action purportedly on behalf of the Company entitled Rattner v. Van Vlack, et al., No. 2015CA002833 (Fla. Palm Beach Cty. Ct.) (the “HLSS Derivative Action”). The lawsuit names as defendants HLSS directors John P. Van Vlack, Robert J. McGinnis, Kerry Kennedy, Richard J. Lochrie, and David B. Reiner (collectively, the “Director Defendants”), New Residential Investment Corp., and Hexagon Merger Sub, Ltd. The HLSS Derivative Action alleges that the Director Defendants breached their fiduciary duties of due care, diligence, loyalty, honesty, and good faith, and the duty to act in the best interests of the Company under Cayman law and claims that the Director Defendants approved a proposed merger with New Residential Investment Corp. that (i) provided inadequate consideration to the Company’s shareholders, (ii) included unfair deal protection devices, (iii) and was the result of an inadequate process due to conflicts of interest. The Company intends to vigorously defend the HLSS Derivative Action.Risks Related to TaxationWe expect to be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes which could subject U.S. taxpayers to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences.We expect that we and our subsidiary, Luxco 1B , have been and will be treated as PFICs for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A PFIC generally is a foreign corporation if either at least (i) 75% of its gross income is “passive income,” or (ii) 50% of the gross value of its assets is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. The determination whether any corporation was, or will be, a PFIC for a taxable year depends, in part, on the application of complex U.S. federal income tax rules, which are subject to differing interpretations. In addition, whether any corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year depends on the assets and income of such corporation over the course of each such taxable year and, as a result, generally cannot be determined until the close of the taxable year in question. Accordingly there can be no assurance that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will not challenge any determination made by us or one of our subsidiaries concerning 26Table of Contentsits PFIC status. If the IRS were to successfully assert that any of our foreign subsidiaries other than Luxco 1B had been PFICs, then the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the disposition of your indirect ownership interest in such foreign subsidiary would be similar to the consequences described below with respect to your indirect ownership of Luxco 1B.Subject to the discussion below regarding the mark-to-market election with respect to our ordinary shares, if you are a U.S. taxpayer and have not had a Qualified Electing Fund (“QEF”) election in effect for your entire holding period with respect to us and/or Luxco 1B, you may be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, including (1) deferred tax at ordinary income tax rates, and interest charges, with respect to certain distributions on our ordinary shares, any gain realized on a disposition of our ordinary shares or your indirect interest in Luxco 1B (including as a result of the Asset Sale) and certain other events and (2) a capital loss with respect to the disposition of our ordinary shares (including pursuant to the New Merger Agreement or the Liquidation Plan). The effect of these adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could be material to you. If you are a U.S. taxpayer and made a valid, timely QEF election for us and Luxco 1B, you will not be subject to the foregoing adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, but you could recognize taxable income as a result of the Asset Sale, or by reason of certain actions taken by NRZ or its affiliates following the consummation of the Asset Sale, that increase our or Luxco 1B’s earnings for the taxable year of the Asset Sale. Such taxable income may not be able to be offset by any corresponding capital loss with respect to your disposition of our ordinary shares (including pursuant to the New Merger Agreement or the Liquidation Plan), because of differences in the character of such income or gain and/or the potential for the recognition of such loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes to be delayed beyond the close of the taxable year in which the Asset Sale occurs. We (or, following the New Merger, NRZ) will provide or cause to be provided such information to all electing shareholders needed to make or maintain a QEF election with respect to us and Luxco 1B. Prior to the consummation of the New Merger, the Purchase Agreement requires that NRZ provide us with information necessary for us to continue providing such information. If you are a U.S. taxpayer and made a valid, timely mark-to-market election with respect to our ordinary shares, you will recognize as ordinary income or loss in each year that we are a PFIC an amount equal to the difference between your basis in our ordinary shares and the fair market value of the ordinary shares, thus also possibly giving rise to phantom income and a potential out-of-pocket tax liability. Ordinary loss generally is recognized only to the extent of net mark-to-market gains previously included in income. The mark-to-market election is not available with respect to your indirect interest in Luxco 1B.Distributions that we pay to individual U.S. taxpayers will not be eligible for taxation at reduced rates.Distributions made to a U.S. taxpayer that is an individual will not be eligible for taxation at reduced tax rates generally applicable to dividends paid by certain U.S. corporations and “qualified foreign corporations.” We intend for distributions to our shareholders of the proceeds of the Asset Sale and the disposition of the NRZ Shares to be treated as amounts received in respect of a sale of exchange of their interest in our ordinary shares stock; however, there is no assurance that the IRS will respect such treatment.If our ownership of servicing rights were treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States, we would become subject to U.S. federal income taxation which could adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders.The IRS could assert that we are engaged in a U.S. trade or business pertaining to the ownership of mortgage servicing rights. If, contrary to our expectations, our ownership of mortgage servicing rights is treated as being engaged in a trade or business in the United States, we would be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxation on a substantial portion of our Net income, which would adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. More specifically, if we are treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States, the portion of our Net income, if any, that was “effectively connected” with such trade or business would be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at a maximum rate of 35% as opposed to our expectation that only the income of our U.S. subsidiaries will be subject to U.S. federal income tax. In such case, gain recognized by us pursuant to the Asset Sale could be subject to such treatment. In addition, we would be subject to the U.S. federal branch profits tax on our effectively connected earnings and profits at a rate of 30%.We may become subject to taxation in the Cayman Islands.The Cayman Islands currently levies no taxes on individuals or corporations based upon profits, income, gains or appreciation and there is no taxation in the nature of inheritance tax or estate duty. Dividend payments are not subject to withholdings tax in the Cayman Islands. There are no other taxes likely to be material to our company levied by the government of the Cayman Islands except for stamp duties that may be applicable on instruments executed in, or after execution brought 27Table of Contentswithin the jurisdiction of, the Cayman Islands. The tax treatment of our business in the Cayman Islands is subject to change. Thus, we may become subject to Cayman Islands taxation in the future.Changes to foreign tax treaties upon which we rely or adverse decisions or actions by tax authorities could result in additional tax liabilities in the U.S. or abroad, which would reduce our profitability.Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to U.S. or foreign income taxes. Judgment is required in determining the likelihood of a tax authority upholding our tax position and in calculating our provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we engage tax specialists to develop our corporate tax strategy, a U.S. or foreign tax authority may make an adverse determination in relation to our positions and may levy additional taxes, impose interest or penalties or bring litigation against us.In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we recognize income tax benefits, net of required valuation allowances. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of any tax audits or any related litigation arising from such an audit could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect could impact our income tax provision and Net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.