Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this annual report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. If any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this annual report, you should also carefully review the cautionary statement referred to under “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements.” Risk factors related to our business The specific risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information contained in this annual report, could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results and individually or any combination thereof could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The adverse impact of general economic and related factors such as high levels of unemployment and underemployment, fuel price increases, declines in the securities and real estate markets, and perceptions of these conditions can decrease the level of disposable income of consumers or consumer confidence. The demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. The demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. Adverse changes in the perceived or actual economic climate, such as higher fuel prices, higher interest rates, stock and real estate market declines and/or volatility, more restrictive credit markets, higher taxes, and changes in governmental policies could reduce the level of discretionary income or consumer confidence in the countries from which we source our guests. An increase in cruise capacity without a corresponding increase in passenger demand, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, cruise capacity has grown to meet the growth in demand. According to CLIA, 17.6 million passengers in 2013 took cruises on CLIA member lines versus 7.2 million passengers in 2000, representing a compound annual growth rate of approximately 7.1%. CLIA estimates that between 2013 and 2016, the North America based CLIA member line fleet will increase by approximately 29 ships, representing a compound annual capacity growth of 3.4%. In order to profitably utilize this new capacity, the cruise industry 25 Table of Contents will likely need to improve its percentage share of the U.S. population who has cruised at least once, which is approximately 24%, according to CLIA. If there is an industry-wide increase in capacity without a corresponding increase in public demand, we, as well as the entire cruise industry, could experience reduced occupancy rates and/or be forced to discount our prices. In addition, increased cruise capacity could impact our ability to retain and attract qualified shipboard employees, including officers, at competitive levels and, therefore, increase our shipboard employee costs. We face intense competition from other cruise companies as well as non-cruise vacation alternatives and we may not be able to compete effectively. We face intense competition from other cruise companies, primarily the other Major North American Cruise Brands, which together comprise approximately 90% of the North American cruise market as measured by total Berths. These brands include Carnival Cruise Lines and Royal Caribbean International in the contemporary segment and Holland America, Princess Cruises and Celebrity Cruises in the premium segment. As of December 31, 2013, Norwegian Cruise Line accounted for approximately 13% of the Major North American Cruise Brands’ capacity in terms of Berths. We compete against all of these operators principally on the quality of our ships, our differentiated product offering, selection of our itineraries and value proposition of our cruises. We also face competition for many itineraries from other cruise operators as well as competition from non-cruise vacation alternatives. In the event we do not compete effectively, our business could be adversely affected. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from making debt service payments. Our level of indebtedness could limit cash flow available for our operations and could adversely affect our financial condition, operations, prospects and flexibility. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $3.1 billion of total debt. Our substantial indebtedness could: • limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, debt service requirements, strategic initiatives or other purposes; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness thereby reducing funds available to us for other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business; • make us more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or the economy; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; • restrict us from taking certain actions by means of restrictive covenants; • make our credit card processors seek more restrictive terms in respect of our credit card arrangements; and • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at a variable rate of interest. Based on our December 31, 2013 outstanding variable rate debt balance, a one percentage point increase in the LIBOR interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $19.4 million, excluding the effects of capitalization of interest. In addition, future financings we may undertake may also provide for rates that fluctuate with prevailing interest rates. Negative publicity surrounding the cruise industry may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Negative publicity, or heightened media scrutiny of the cruise industry, due to incidents relating to vessel operation, environmental or natural disasters such as hurricanes, epidemics and viral outbreaks aboard a vessel, or any occurrence which brings into question the safety and security of the industry may result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations including the decrease in demand for cruise vacations and a damage to the reputation of the cruise industry as a safe and reliable vacation alternative. The considerable expansion in the use of social media in recent years can further amplify any negative publicity that may be generated. 26 Table of Contents Increases in fuel prices and/or other cruise operating costs would increase the cost of our cruise ship operations. Fuel expense accounted for 18.3% of our total cruise operating expense in 2013, 19.2% in 2012 and 16.6% in 2011. Future increases in the cost of fuel globally would increase the cost of our cruise ship operations. In addition, we could experience increases in other cruise operating costs, due to market forces and economic or political instability beyond our control. Conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and risks. We operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. Operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including political risks, risks of increase in duties and taxes, risks relating to anti-bribery laws, as well as changes in laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies. Because some of our expenses are incurred in foreign currencies, we are exposed to exchange rate risks. Additional risks include interest rate movements, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. We have implemented safeguards and policies to prevent violations of various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business by our employees and agents. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. If employees violate our policies or we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions, or severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions or prohibitions on our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt or issue certain preference shares; • pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our share capital or make other restricted payments, including the ability of NCLC to make distributions or other restricted payments to NCLH; • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; • create liens on certain assets; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our existing debt agreements. If any of the holders of our indebtedness accelerate the repayment of such indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. Under our existing debt agreements we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those ratios. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in our existing debt agreements could result in an event of default under the agreements, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of any default under our existing debt agreements, the holders of our indebtedness thereunder: • will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us, if applicable; • could elect to declare all indebtedness outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, if applicable; and/or • could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay such indebtedness. Such actions by the holders of our indebtedness could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the holders of our indebtedness under our existing senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. 27 Table of Contents If the indebtedness under our existing debt agreements were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more debt. This could intensify the risks described above. We may be able to incur substantial indebtedness at any time in the future. Although the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things: • our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and • our future ability to borrow under certain of our existing senior secured credit facilities, the availability of which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in such existing senior secured credit facilities. There can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to draw under certain of our existing senior secured credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. Neither our Sponsors nor any of their respective affiliates has any continuing obligation to provide us with debt or equity financing. The impact of volatility and disruptions in the global credit and financial markets may adversely affect our ability to borrow and could increase our counterparty credit risks, including those under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to borrow additional money on terms as favorable as our current debt, on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Some of the counterparties under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees may be unable to perform their obligations or may breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them, which could include failures of financial institutions to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements and to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts and other agreements. Also, we may be limited in obtaining funds to pay amounts due to our counterparties under our derivative contracts and to pay amounts that may become due under other agreements. If we were to elect to replace any counterparty for their failure to perform their obligations under such instruments, we would likely incur significant costs to replace the counterparty. Any failure to replace any counterparties under these circumstances may result in additional costs to us or an ineffective instrument. Terrorist acts, acts of piracy, armed conflict and threats thereof, and other international events impacting the security of travel could adversely affect the demand for cruises. Past acts of terrorism have had an adverse effect on tourism, travel and the availability of air service and other forms of transportation. The threat or possibility of future terrorist acts, an outbreak of hostilities or armed conflict abroad or the possibility thereof, the issuance of travel advisories by national governments, and other geo-political uncertainties have had in the past and may again in the future have an adverse impact on the demand for cruises and consequently the pricing for cruises. Decreases in demand and reduced pricing in response to such decreased demand would adversely affect our business by reducing our profitability. We rely on external distribution channels for passenger bookings, and major changes in the availability of external distribution channels could undermine our customer base. In 2013, the majority of our guests booked their cruises through independent travel agents. In the event that the travel agent distribution channel is adversely impacted by the worldwide economic downturn, or other reason, this could reduce the distribution channels available for us to market and sell our cruises and we could be forced to increase the use of alternative distribution channels. 28 Table of Contents We rely on scheduled commercial airline services for passenger connections, and increases in the price of, or major changes or reduction in, commercial airline services could undermine our customer base. A number of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to ports of embarkation for our cruises. Increases in the price of airfare, due to increases in fuel prices or other factors, would increase the overall vacation cost to our guests and may adversely affect demand for our cruises. Changes in commercial airline services as a result of strikes, weather or other events, or the lack of availability due to schedule changes or a high level of airline bookings could adversely affect our ability to deliver guests to our cruises and/or increase our cruise operating expense. Any delays in the construction and delivery of a cruise ship could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Delays in the construction, repair, refurbishment and delivery of a cruise ship can occur as a result of events such as insolvency, work stoppages, other labor actions or “force majeure” events experienced by our shipbuilders and other such companies that are beyond our control. Any termination or breach of contract following such an event may result in, among other things, the forfeiture of prior deposits or payments made by us, potential claims and impairment of losses. A significant delay in the delivery of a new ship, or a significant performance deficiency or mechanical failure of a new ship, particularly in light of decreasing availability of Dry-dock facilities, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Epidemics and viral outbreaks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Public perception about the safety of travel and adverse publicity related to passenger or crew illness, such as incidents of H1N1, stomach flu, or other contagious diseases, may impact demand for cruises. If any wide-ranging health scare should occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. The political environment in certain countries where we operate is uncertain and our ability to operate our business as we have in the past may be restricted. We operate in waters and call at ports throughout the world, including geographic regions that, from time to time, have experienced political and civil unrest as well as insurrection and armed hostilities. Adverse international events could affect demand for cruise products generally and could have an adverse effect on us. Adverse incidents involving cruise ships may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of cruise ships carries an inherent risk of loss caused by adverse weather conditions, maritime disaster, including, but not limited to, oil spills and other environmental mishaps, fire, mechanical failure, collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, political action, civil unrest and insurrection in various countries and other circumstances or events. Any such event may result in loss of life or property, loss of revenue or increased costs. The operation of cruise ships also involves the risk of other incidents at sea or while in port, including missing guests, inappropriate crew or passenger behavior and onboard crimes, which may bring into question passenger safety, may adversely affect future industry performance and may lead to litigation against us. Although we place passenger safety as the highest priority in the design and operation of our fleet, we have experienced accidents and other incidents involving our cruise ships and there can be no assurance that similar events will not occur in the future. It is possible that we could be forced to cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these factors or incur increased port related and other costs resulting from such adverse events. Any such event involving our cruise ships or other passenger cruise ships may adversely affect guests’ perceptions of safety or result in increased governmental or other regulatory oversight. An adverse judgment or settlement in respect of any of the ongoing claims against us may also lead to negative publicity about us. Anything that damages our reputation (whether or not justified), including adverse publicity about passenger safety, could have an adverse impact on demand, which could lead to price discounting and a reduction in our sales and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that all risks are fully insured against or that any particular claim will be fully paid. Such losses, to the extent they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could affect our financial results. In addition, we have been and continue to be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity coverage for tort liability. Our payment of these calls and increased premiums could result in significant expenses to us which could reduce our cash flows. If we were to sustain significant losses in the future, our ability to obtain insurance coverage or coverage at commercially reasonable rates could be materially adversely affected. Breaches in data security or other disturbances to our information technology and other networks could impair our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The integrity and reliability of our information technology systems and other networks are crucial to our business operations. We have made significant investments in our information technology systems to optimize booking procedures, enhance the marketing power of our website and control costs. Any unauthorized use of our information systems to gain access to sensitive information, corrupt data or create general disturbances in our operations systems could impair our ability to conduct business and damage our reputation. If our security measures were breached, we could be exposed to cyber-related risks and malware and access to credit cards and other sensitive data could be at risk. 29 Table of Contents Amendments to the collective bargaining agreements for crew members of our fleet and other employee relation issues may materially adversely affect our financial results. Currently, we are a party to six collective bargaining agreements. Three of these agreements are in effect through 2014. Of the three remaining agreements, two are scheduled to expire in 2018 and one is scheduled to expire in 2020. Upon appropriate notice, the agreements may be reopened at certain yearly intervals, and we received notice from one of the parties to reopen wage/benefit negotiations in 2013. These negotiations were completed and effective from July 2013 without material cost to the Company. Any future amendments to such collective bargaining agreements or inability to satisfactorily renegotiate such agreements may increase our labor costs and have a negative impact on our financial condition. In addition, our collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a disruption in work on our ships in the future. Any such disruptions in work could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Unavailability of ports of call may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that attractive port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. The availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. Any limitations on the availability of our ports of call could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key personnel or our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely upon the ability, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity and good faith of our senior management team. Our success is dependent upon our personnel and our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. The loss of services of any of the key members of our management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 1— “Business—Executive Officers” for additional information about our management personnel. The leadership of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Sheehan, and other executive officers has been a critical element of our success. The death or disability of Mr. Sheehan or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our other executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could also materially adversely affect us. We are not protected by key man or similar life insurance covering members of our senior management. We have employment agreements with our executive officers, but these agreements do not guarantee that any given executive will remain with us. Risks related to the regulatory environment in which we operate Future changes in applicable tax laws, or our inability to take advantage of favorable tax regimes, could increase the amount of taxes we must pay. We believe and have taken the position that our income that is considered to be derived from the international operation of ships as well as certain income that is considered to be incidental to such income (“shipping income”), is exempt from U.S. federal income taxes under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), based upon certain assumptions as to shareholdings and other information as more fully described in “Item 1—Business—Regulatory Issues—Taxation—Exemption of Operating Income from U.S. Federal Income Taxation.” The provisions of Section 883 of the Code are subject to change at any time, possibly with retroactive effect. We believe and have taken the position that substantially all of our income derived from the international operation of ships is properly categorized as shipping income and that we do not have a material amount of non-qualifying income. It is possible, however, that a much larger percentage of our income does not qualify (or will not qualify) as shipping income. Moreover, the exemption for shipping income is only available for years in which NCLH will satisfy complex stock ownership tests under Section 883 of the Code as described in “Item 1—Business— Regulatory Issues— Taxation—Exemption of Operating Income from U.S. Federal Income Taxation.” There are factual circumstances beyond our control, including changes in the direct and indirect owners of NCLH’s ordinary shares, which could cause us or our subsidiaries to lose the benefit of this tax exemption. Finally, any changes in our operations could significantly increase our exposure to either the Net Tax Regime or the 4% Regime (each as defined in “Item 1—Business—Taxation of Operating Income: In General”), and we can give no assurances on this matter. If we or any of our subsidiaries were not to qualify for the exemption under Section 883 of the Code, our or such subsidiary’s U.S.-source income would be subject to either the Net Tax Regime or the 4% Regime (each as defined in “Item 1— Business— Regulatory Issues— Taxation—Taxation of Operating Income: In General”). As of the date of this filing, we believe that NCLH and its subsidiaries will satisfy the stock ownership tests imposed under Section 883 and therefore believe that NCLH will qualify for the 30 Table of Contents exemption under Section 883. However, as discussed above, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause NCLH to not meet the stock ownership tests. Therefore, we can give no assurances on this matter. We refer you to “Item 1—Business—Regulatory Issues—Taxation—Exemption of Operating Income from U.S. Federal Income Taxation.” We may be subject to state, local and non-U.S. income or non-income taxes in various jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business, own property or reside. We may be required to file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. Our state, local or non-U.S. tax treatment may not conform to the U.S. federal income tax treatment discussed above. We may be required to pay non-U.S. taxes on dispositions of foreign property or operations involving foreign property that may give rise to non-U.S. income or other tax liabilities in amounts that could be substantial. The various tax regimes to which we are currently subject result in a relatively low effective tax rate on our worldwide income. These tax regimes, however, are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. For example, legislation has been proposed in the past that would eliminate the benefits of the exemption from U.S. federal income tax under Section 883 of the Code and subject all or a portion of our shipping income to taxation in the United States. Moreover, we may become subject to new tax regimes and may be unable to take advantage of favorable tax provisions afforded by current or future law including exemption of branch profits and dividend withholding taxes under the US – UK Income Tax Treaty on income derived in respect of our U.S.–flagged operation. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our operations and any changes in the current laws and regulations could lead to increased costs or decreased revenue. Some environmental groups have lobbied for more extensive oversight of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise industry and its environmental impact. Increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations on environmental protection and health and safety of workers could affect our operations. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the IMO (a United Nations agency with responsibility for the safety and security of shipping and the prevention of marine pollution by ships), the Council of the European Union and individual states are considering, as well as implementing, new laws and rules to manage cruise ship waste. In addition, many aspects of the cruise industry are subject to governmental regulation by the U.S. Coast Guard as well as international treaties such as SOLAS, an international safety regulation, MARPOL, an international environmental regulation, and STCW and its conventions in ship manning. International regulations regarding ballast water and security levels are currently pending. Additionally, the U.S. and various state and foreign government and regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations and policies, such as requiring the use of low-sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements and further restricting emissions, including those of green-house gases. Compliance with such laws and regulations may entail significant expenses for ship modification and changes in operating procedures which could adversely impact our operations as well as our competitors’ operations. In 2006, Alaskan voters approved a ballot measure requiring that cruise ships meet Alaska Water Quality Standards (“WQS”). Pursuant to the ballot measure, Alaska approved stringent regulations and required a waste water discharge permit for cruise ships beginning in 2008. Legislation approved in 2009 allowed the state to issue general permits that contain effluent limits or standards that are less stringent than the WQS where the ship is using economically feasible methods of pollution prevention. In 2013, the state extended the permit program, and allowed ship operators to apply for mixing zones in upcoming permits, an option that may ease compliance with certain WQS. The International Labor Organization’s Maritime Labor Convention, 2006 went into force on August 20, 2013. The Convention regulates many aspects of maritime crew labor and impacts the worldwide sourcing of new crewmembers. MARPOL regulations have established special Emission Control Areas (“ECAs”) with stringent limitations on sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions. Ships operating in designated ECAs (which include the Baltic Sea, the North Sea/English Channel, and many of the waters within 200 nautical miles of the U.S. and Canadian coasts including the Hawaiian Islands; waters surrounding Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands have been included as of January 2014) are generally expected to meet the new emissions limits through the use of low-sulfur fuels. These issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. This could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. By virtue of our operations in the U.S., the FMC requires us to maintain a third-party performance guarantee on our behalf in respect of liabilities for non-performance of transportation and other obligations to guests. The FMC has proposed rules that would significantly increase the amount of our required guarantees and accordingly our cost of compliance. There can be no assurance that such an increase in the amount of our guarantees, if required, would be available to us. For additional discussion of the FMC’s proposed requirements, we refer you to “Item 1—Business—Regulatory Issues.” In 2007, the state of Alaska implemented taxes, some of which were rolled back in 2010, which have impacted the cruise industry operating in Alaska. It is possible that other states, countries or ports of call that our ships regularly visit may also decide to assess new taxes or fees or change existing taxes or fees specifically applicable to the cruise industry and its employees and/or guests, which could increase our operating costs and/or could decrease the demand for cruises. 31 Table of Contents Changes in health, safety, security and other regulatory issues could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various international, national, state and local health, safety and security laws and regulations. For additional discussion of these requirements, we refer you to “Item 1—Business—Regulatory Issues.” Changes in existing legislation or regulations and the imposition of new requirements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Implementation of U.S. federal regulations, requiring U.S. citizens to obtain passports for seaborne travel to all foreign destinations, could adversely affect our business. Many cruise guests may not currently have passports or may not obtain a passport card (previously known as the People Access Security Service Card, or PASS Card) as an alternative to a passport. This card was created to meet the documentary requirements of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative. Applications for the card have been accepted since February 1, 2008 and the cards were made available to the public beginning in July 2008. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 31, 2035, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under current Bermuda law, we are not subject to tax on income or capital gains. We have received from the Minister of Finance under The Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, an assurance that, in the event that Bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance, then the imposition of any such tax shall not be applicable to us or to any of our operations or shares, debentures or other obligations, until March 31, 2035. We could be subject to taxes in Bermuda after that date. This assurance is subject to the proviso that it is not to be construed to prevent the application of any tax or duty to such persons as are ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to prevent the application of any tax payable in accordance with the provisions of the Land Tax Act 1967 or otherwise payable in relation to any property leased to us. We pay annual Bermuda government fees. Risks related to our ordinary shares We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of NASDAQ and, as a result, rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. On January 18, 2013, NCLH listed its ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and Genting HK, the Apollo Funds and the TPG Viking Funds, or their respective affiliates, together continue to control a majority of its ordinary shares. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of NASDAQ. Under the rules of NASDAQ, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirement: • that a majority of its Board of Directors consists of independent directors; • that NCLH have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • that NCLH have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. NCLH has utilized these exemptions. As a result, NCLH does not have a majority of independent directors nor is NCLH required to have any independent directors on its nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees, and NCLH is not required to have an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. Accordingly, its shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to a national securities exchange’s general corporate governance requirements (without giving effect to the “controlled company” exemptions of NASDAQ). We are controlled by the Sponsors, who hold a significant percentage of NCLH’s ordinary shares and whose interests may not be aligned with ours or our public shareholders. The majority of NCLH’s voting ordinary shares are held by affiliates of Genting HK, the Apollo Funds and the TPG Viking Funds. The shareholders’ agreement governing the relationship among those parties gives the Apollo Funds effective control over our affairs and policies, subject to certain limitations. Genting HK and the Apollo Funds also control the election of our Board of Directors, the appointment of management, the entering into of mergers, sales of substantially all of our assets and other material transactions. The directors appointed by Genting HK and the Apollo Funds have the authority, on our behalf and subject to the terms of our debt agreements and the shareholders’ agreement, to issue additional ordinary shares, implement share repurchase programs, declare dividends, pay advisory fees and make other decisions, and they may have an interest in our doing so. The interests of Genting HK, the Apollo Funds and the TPG Viking Funds could conflict with our public shareholders’ interests in material respects. 32 Table of Contents Furthermore, Genting HK engages in the cruise industry and leisure, entertainment and hospitality activities and Apollo and TPG are in the business of managing investment funds which make investments in companies and one or more of which has now and may from time to time hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us, as well as businesses that represent major guests of our business. Investment funds managed by Genting HK, Apollo and/or TPG may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as NCLH’s Sponsors continue to control a significant amount of its outstanding voting ordinary shares, such shareholders will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Additionally, the concentration of ownership held by NCLH’s Sponsors could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of us or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination. Shareholders of our Company may have greater difficulties in protecting their interests than as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. We are a Bermuda exempted company. The Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda (the “Companies Act”), which applies to our Company, differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Taken together with the provisions of our bye-laws, some of these differences may result in you having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of our Company than you would have as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. This affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our Company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our Company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the Companies Act or our bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. The market price for our ordinary shares could be subject to wide fluctuations. The market price for our ordinary shares could be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; • sales of large blocks of our ordinary shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, including sales by our directors, officers and Sponsors; • market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy; • announcements of new itineraries or services or the introduction of new ships by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • conditions in the cruise industry; • price and volume fluctuations in the stock markets generally; • announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • our involvement in significant acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures; • changes in government and environmental regulation; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • additions or departures of key personnel; • changes in general market, economic and political conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from natural disasters, terrorist attacks, acts of war and responses to such events; or • potential litigation. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our shares. The substantial number of ordinary shares that will be eligible for sale in the near future may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. There were 205,160,340 ordinary shares of NCLH issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2013. The ordinary shares (i) issued in connection with our IPO, (ii) sold in Secondary Offerings completed in August and December 2013, by the Sponsors, (iii) issued or to be issued under our new long-term incentive plan or (iv) issued or to be issued in exchange for Management NCL Corporation Units are or will be freely transferable, except for any shares held by our “affiliates,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). Ordinary shares that continue to be held by our Sponsors and key employees may also be sold in the public market in the future subject to the restrictions contained in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. If our Sponsors sell 33 Table of Contents a substantial amount of our ordinary shares, the prevailing market price for our ordinary shares could be adversely affected. If our Sponsors continue to sell, it is possible that one or more Sponsors may no longer own any of our ordinary shares. The uncertainty regarding the future ownership of the Company by the Sponsors could materially adversely impact our operations and the market price of our ordinary shares. As of December 31, 2013, there were an aggregate of 4,709,692 outstanding Management NCL Corporation Units, which represent a 2.2% economic interest in NCLC. In connection with the consummation of the IPO, we entered into an exchange agreement with NCLC. Pursuant to the exchange agreement, and subject to certain procedures and restrictions (including the vesting schedules applicable to the Management NCL Corporation Units and any applicable legal and contractual restrictions), each holder of Management NCL Corporation Units has the right to cause NCLC and us to exchange the holder’s Management NCL Corporation Units for our ordinary shares at an exchange rate equal to one ordinary share for every Management NCL Corporation Unit (or, at NCLC’s election, a cash payment equal to the value of the exchanged Management NCL Corporation Units), subject to customary adjustments for stock splits, subdivisions, combinations and similar extraordinary events. We have reserved for issuance a number of our ordinary shares corresponding to the number of Management NCL Corporation Units. On August 19, 2013, NCLH filed a registration statement with the SEC, which is effective, to register on a continuous basis the issuance of the ordinary shares to be received by the holders of Management NCL Corporation Units who elected or will elect to exchange. We may issue our ordinary shares or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of ordinary shares, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be substantial. We may also grant registration rights covering those ordinary shares or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. We have granted approximately 5.0 million options to acquire our ordinary shares to our management team under our new long-term incentive plan. We filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act covering the 15,035,106 ordinary shares reserved for issuance under our new long-term incentive plan (including the shares subject to the option grants described above). Accordingly, ordinary shares registered under such registration statement will be available for sale in the open market upon exercise or other acquisition by the holders, subject to vesting restrictions, Rule 144 limitations applicable to our affiliates and any applicable contractual lock-up provisions. We do not have current plans to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. We do not currently intend to pay dividends to our shareholders and our Board of Directors may never declare a dividend. Our debt agreements limit or prohibit, and any of our future debt arrangements may restrict, among other things, the ability of our subsidiaries, including NCLC, to pay distributions to NCLH and our ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders. In addition, any determination to pay dividends in the future will be entirely at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, business opportunities, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant. We are not legally or contractually required to pay dividends. In addition, we are a holding company and would depend upon our subsidiaries for their ability to pay distributions to us to finance any dividend or pay any other obligations of NCLH. Investors seeking dividends should not purchase our ordinary shares. Provisions in our constitutional documents may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. Our bye-laws contain provisions that may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our shareholders consider to be in their best interests. As a result, these provisions may prevent our shareholders from receiving a premium to the market price of our shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. These provisions include (subject to the Shareholders’ Agreement): • the ability of our Board of Directors to designate one or more series of preference shares and issue preference shares without shareholder approval; • a classified board of directors; • the sole power of a majority of our Board of Directors to fix the number of directors; • the power of our Board of Directors to fill any vacancy on our Board of Directors in most circumstances, including when such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; and • advance notice requirements for nominating directors or introducing other business to be conducted at shareholder meetings. Additionally, our bye-laws contain provisions that prevent third parties, other than the Apollo Funds, the TPG Viking Funds and Genting HK, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of its outstanding shares without the consent of our Board of Directors and provide for the lapse of rights, and sale, of any shares acquired in excess of that limit. The effect of these provisions as well as the significant ownership of ordinary shares by our Sponsors may preclude third parties from seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us in transactions that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests and may prevent them from receiving a premium above market price for their shares. 34 Table of Contents Any issuance of preference shares could make it difficult for another company to acquire us or could otherwise adversely affect holders of our ordinary shares, which could depress the price of our ordinary shares. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue preference shares and to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of shares of preference shares and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our shareholders, subject to the Shareholders’ Agreement. Our preference shares could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of our ordinary shares. The potential issuance of preference shares may delay or prevent a change in control of us, discouraging bids for our ordinary shares at a premium over the market price, and adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 