RISK FACTORS Investing in our Class A shares involves a high degree of risk. The risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report, including in the section headed "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects", could materially adversely affect our business. These are not the only risks that we face; additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also become important factors that affect us. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our Class A shares could decline. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We face significant competition from major global and Russian internet companies, including Google and Mail.ru, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face strong competition from global and Russian companies that provide internet search and other online services and content. Currently, we consider our principal competitors to be Google and Mail.ru. Of the large global internet companies, we consider Google to be our principal competitor in the market for internet search, and for text-based advertising, distribution arrangements and other services. Google.ru's share of the Russian search market, based on search traffic generated, was 26.0% for February 2013 and 26.2% for the full year 2012, compared with our market share of 61.9% and 60.2%, respectively, according to Liveinternet.ru. Google launched its Russian-language search engine in 2001, and opened its first office in Russia and introduced Russian-language morphology-based search capabilities in 2006. It conducts extensive online and offline advertising campaigns in Russia. During the past year, Google has also aggressively marketed its Chrome browser in Russia, and has taken steps to attempt to ensure that its search engine is the default search function on its browser, which has created increased competition. In addition, with Android, its popular mobile platform, Google may exert significant influence over the increasingly important market for mobile and location-based search and advertising, including through its global arrangements with manufacturers of mobile devices. We expect that Google will continue to use its brand recognition and financial and engineering resources to compete aggressively with us. In addition to Google, we also face competition from the Russian and international websites of Microsoft and Yahoo! On the domestic level, our principal competitor is Mail.ru. We compete with Mail.ru in the market for text-based advertising, display advertising and other services. Mail.ru offers a wide range of internet services, including the most popular Russian web mail service, and many other services that are comparable to ours. Mail.ru's market share has increased recently, from 7.1% in 2011 to 8.5% in 2012. We also compete with Russian online advertising networks, such as Begun, which direct advertising to a number of popular Russian websites. Although we have partnerships with a number of social networking sites, such as Facebook, Twitter, Vkontakte and Mail.ru's Odnoklassniki and My World, and serve ads on some of these sites, we also view them as increasingly significant competitors. Such sites provide users with a wide range of information and services similar to those we offer, including search, real-time news and location-based information and updates. These sites derive a substantial portion of their revenues from online advertising and are experimenting with innovative ways of monetizing user traffic. In light of their large audiences and the significant amount of information they can access and analyze regarding their users' needs, interests and habits, we believe that they may be able to offer highly targeted advertising that could create increased competition for us. The popularity of such sites may also reflect a growing shift in the way in which people find information, get answers and buy products, which may create additional competition to attract users. We also compete with other destination websites, which are sites that users access primarily for content rather than search, that seek to increase their search-related traffic, as well 7 Table of Contents as start-ups and other established companies that are developing search technologies and other internet services. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to compete effectively with current and future internet companies that may have greater ability to attract and retain users, greater name recognition, more personnel and other resources. If our competitors are successful in providing similar or better search results and other internet services compared with those we offer, we could experience a significant decline in user traffic. Any such decline in traffic could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generate almost all of our revenues from advertising, which is cyclical in nature, and any reduction in spending by or loss of advertisers would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the past three years, we generated on average more than 97% of our revenues from advertising. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns, and can therefore fluctuate significantly. During the 2008-2009 global economic crisis, total advertising spending in Russia declined by 28% in ruble terms, from 2008 to 2009, while the growth in online advertising expenditures slowed: 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (RUR in billion) Online advertising expenditures 17.6 19.1 26.8 41.8 56.3 Total advertising expenditures 257.2 186.4 218.6 263.4 297.8 Although forecasts for online advertising spending in Russia indicate sustained annual growth through 2015, we anticipate that the rate of such growth will slow in the coming years. Any decreases in or delays in online advertising spending due to economic conditions, or otherwise, would materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any decline in the internet as a significant advertising platform in the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generate almost all our revenues from the sale of online advertising in Russia. The level of spending on advertising in Russia remains relatively low compared to that in more developed countries, and the use of the internet as a marketing channel is at a relatively early stage. The internet and broadband penetration rates in Russia are also relatively low compared to those in more developed countries. The internet competes with traditional advertising media, such as television, print, radio and outdoor advertising. Many of our current and potential customers have limited experience with online advertising, and have not historically devoted a significant portion of their marketing budgets to online marketing and promotion. As a result, they may not consider the internet effective in promoting their products and services compared with traditional media. Any decline in the appeal of the internet generally in Russia or the other countries in which we operate, whether as a result of the growth in popularity of other forms of media, a decline in the attractiveness of the internet as an advertising medium or any other factor, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our users can switch at any time to our competitors at no cost. If we do not continue to innovate and provide services that are useful and attractive to our users, we may not retain them and may become less attractive to our advertisers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on providing search and other services that make using the internet a more useful and enjoyable experience for our users. Our competitors continuously develop innovations in 8 Table of Contents search and other services, as well as online advertising services. As search technology continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer search capabilities that are, or that are seen to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. This may force us to compete in different ways and expend significant resources to remain competitive. If we are unable to continue to develop and provide our users with quality and up-to-date services, and to appropriately time them with market opportunities, our user base may shrink. Further, if we are unable to attract and retain a substantial share of internet traffic generated by mobile and other digital devices, or if we are slow to develop services and technologies that are compatible with such devices, our user base may shrink or fail to grow, and our business would be harmed. If our users move to our competitors, we will also become less attractive to advertisers and therefore to Yandex ad network partners, both of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Distribution arrangements with third parties are an important avenue for expanding our user base, and any failure to obtain or maintain such relationships on reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To expand our user base and increase traffic to our sites, we enter into arrangements with leading software companies for the distribution of our technology. In particular, we have agreements, on a co-marketing basis, with certain internet browsers. In addition, several mobile device manufacturers include Yandex as the default search engine on certain models of handsets in Russia. As new methods for accessing the internet become available, including through new digital platforms and devices, we may need to enter into new or amended distribution agreements. Our largest distribution partners in 2012 were Opera and Mozilla (which offers the Firefox browser). During 2012, we entered into a multi-year extension of our distribution agreement with Opera. Our distribution relationship with Mozilla terminated in July 2012, although we continue to share revenues with Mozilla on the distribution they provide to us through Firefox installations made prior to the termination of our agreement with them. If we are unable to continue our arrangement with Opera, or enter into comparable arrangements with new distribution partners, this would likely have a negative effect on our search market share over time. In the future, existing and potential distribution partners may not offer or renew distribution arrangements on reasonable terms for us, or at all, which could limit our ability to maintain and expand our user base, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect the rate of growth of our revenues to be lower in the future and we may experience downward pressure on our operating margin. The effectiveness of contextual advertising as a medium has contributed to the rapid growth of our business since our inception. Advertising spending continues to shift from offline to online as the internet evolves and we expect that our business will continue to grow. However, we expect that our revenue growth rate will continue to decline over time as a result of a number of factors, including challenges in maintaining our growth rate as our revenues increase to higher levels, increasing competition, changes in the nature of queries, the evolution of the overall online advertising market and the declining rate of growth in internet users in Russia as overall internet penetration increases. Other factors which may cause our operating margin to fluctuate or decline are: •the percentage of our advertising revenues that we derive from the Yandex ad network compared with our own websites. As our Yandex ad network grows, our operating margin generally declines because the operating margin we realize on revenues generated from partner 9 Table of Contents websites is significantly lower than the operating margin generated from our own websites. The margin we earn on revenue generated from the Yandex ad network could also decrease in the future if we are required to share with our partners a greater percentage of the advertising fees generated through their websites; •increased depreciation and amortization expense related to recent capital expenditures for many aspects of our business, particularly the expansion of our data centers to support growth in both our current and new markets; •relatively higher spending on advertising and marketing to further enhance our brand and promote our services in Russia, to build brand awareness in Turkey and to respond to competitive pressures if these efforts do not drive revenue growth in the manner we anticipate; •expenses related to our expansion efforts into new markets, such as Turkey, which must be incurred prior to earning corresponding revenues, if any; •expenses in connection with the launch of new products and related advertising and marketing efforts, such as our Yandex browser, which may not result in the anticipated increase in revenues or market share; •the possibility of higher fees or revenue sharing arrangements with our distribution partners that, for example, distribute our browser toolbar or search bar or otherwise direct search queries to our website. We expect to continue to expand the number of our distribution relationships in order to increase our user base and to make it easier for our existing users to access our services; and •costs incurred in our international expansion efforts until we succeed in building the user base necessary to begin generating sufficient revenues in these markets to earn accretive operating margins there. See "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Key Trends Impacting Our Results of Operations." As the growth rates of the Russian internet market mature, our future expansion will increasingly depend on our ability to generate revenues from new business models or in other markets. As internet usage has spread in Russia, the rate of growth has been declining, with the number of users increasing by 19% from 2009 to 2010, 17% from 2010 to 2011, and 12% from 2011 to 2012, according to FOM. As our core market matures, we will need to exploit new business models, such as e-commerce, or expand in new geographic markets in order to continue to grow our revenues. Our efforts in this regard may not be successful, which would adversely affect our revenues and our business. We rely on our Yandex ad network partners for a material portion of our revenues and benefit from our relationships with them. If we lose these partners, or the quality of these partners decreases, it would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Revenues from advertising on our ad network partner websites represented 17.4% of our advertising revenues in 2012, compared with 14.9% in 2011. We consider this network to be critical to the future growth of our business. Our agreements with our network partners are generally terminable at any time without cause. Our competitors could offer more favorable terms to our current or potential network partners, including guaranteed minimum revenues or other more advantageous revenue-sharing arrangements, in an effort to obtain market share from us. Additionally, some of our partners in the Yandex ad network, such as Mail.ru and Microsoft Bing, compete with us in one or 10 Table of Contents more areas and may terminate their agreements with us in order to develop their own businesses. If our network partners decide to use a competitor's advertising services, our revenues would decline. Many of our key network partners operate high-profile websites, and we derive tangible and intangible benefits from this affiliation, such as increased user numbers, extended brand awareness and greater audience reach for our advertisers. If our relationship with any of these partners is terminated or not renewed and we do not replace those relationships with comparable relationships, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The number of paid clicks and amount of revenues that we derive from our partners in the Yandex ad network depends on, among other factors, the quality of their websites and their attractiveness to users and advertisers. Although we screen new applicants and favor websites with high-quality content and stable audiences and strive to monitor the quality of the network partner websites on an ongoing basis, these websites are operated by independent third parties that we do not control. If our network partners' websites deteriorate in quality or otherwise fail to provide interesting and relevant content and services to their users, this may result in reduced attractiveness to their users and our advertisers, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on a strong brand, and failing to maintain and enhance our brand would harm our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers and network partners and would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the brand identity that we have developed through the strength of our technology and our user focus has significantly contributed to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the Yandex brand, including through continued significant marketing efforts, is critical to expanding our base of users, advertisers, network partners, and other business partners. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to be a technology leader and a provider of high-quality, reliable services, which we may not continue to do successfully. In December 2012, we entered into an agreement pursuant to which Sberbank will acquire 75 percent (less one ruble) of our Yandex.Money business. Upon completion of this transaction, which is expected in the second quarter of 2013, we will enter into a joint venture arrangement with Sberbank in respect of the future operation of this business, which will continue to operate under the Yandex.Money brand. Although we have sought to implement appropriate controls and protections, as the minority partner in this joint venture we may have limited ability to ensure that the business is always operated in a manner that is consistent with the broader Yandex brand. If we fail to maintain and enhance the Yandex brand, or if we incur excessive expenses in our efforts to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. We spend significant resources expanding and enhancing our service offering, and if these new or enhanced services are not widely adopted by users, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We continuously work to develop new and enhanced services to broaden and improve the overall quality of our service offerings. The cost we incur in these efforts, both in terms of product development expenses and advertising and marketing costs, can be significant. For instance, we incurred considerable development and marketing expenses in connection with launching our Yandex browser in the second half of 2012. Since launch, our Yandex browser has been gaining market share and, in February 2013, had a 4.2% share of the browser market in Russia, according to Liveinternet.ru. There is strong competition in the browser market and we cannot guarantee that our browser's market share will continue to grow. If our new or enhanced services are not widely adopted by users, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents If we are unable to continue to develop services that are compatible with the most popular technology platforms or if these platforms are developed in such a way as to make it difficult for users to access our services from those platforms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We seek to develop services that are compatible with widely adopted technology platforms. Given the speed with which these platforms are evolving, particularly in the mobile industry, their market share can change materially in a relatively short period of time. Moreover, some technology platforms are designed to make it more difficult for a third party service provider, such as Yandex, to offer services that users can easily access from these platforms. If we are unable to develop services that are compatible with the most popular technology platforms or if these platforms are developed in such a way as to make it difficult for users to access our services from those platforms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to manage effectively the rapid growth of our operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have experienced, and continue to experience, rapid growth in our operations, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. We have limited operational, administrative and financial resources, which may be inadequate to sustain the growth we seek to achieve. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our services could suffer, which could adversely affect our brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. As our user and advertiser bases expand, we will need to increase our investment in technology, infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations, in particular product development and sales and marketing. As a result of such growth, we will also need to continue improving our operational and financial systems and managerial control and procedures. We will have to maintain close coordination among our technical, accounting, finance, marketing and sales personnel. If the improvements are not implemented successfully, our ability to manage our growth will be impaired and we may have to make significant additional expenditures, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain the focus on teamwork and innovation fostered by this environment, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which values and fosters teamwork and innovation. As we grow, and are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of any of our key personnel or a failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends in large part upon the continued service of key members of our management team and technical personnel, as well as our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate other highly qualified engineering, programming, technical, sales, customer support, financial and managerial personnel. Although we attempt to structure employee compensation packages in a manner consistent with the evolving standards of the markets in which we operate and to provide incentives to remain with Yandex, including equity awards under our employee incentive plan, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain our key employees. A number of our senior employees exercised share options in 12 Table of Contents connection with our IPO and made significant gains, while a significant portion of our outstanding equity awards held by key employees have become, or will soon become, substantially vested. Although we grant additional equity awards to management personnel and other key employees from time to time, employees may be more likely to leave us after their initial award fully vests, especially if our shares have significantly appreciated in value relative to the exercise price. If any member of our senior management team or other key personnel should leave our company, our ability to successfully operate our business and execute our business strategy could be impaired. We may also have to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring, training and retaining replacements for departing employees. The competition for software engineers and qualified personnel who are familiar with the internet industry in Russia is intense. We may encounter difficulty in hiring and/or retaining highly talented software engineers to develop and maintain our services. There is also significant competition for personnel who are knowledgeable about the accounting and legal requirements related to a NASDAQ listing, and we may encounter particular difficulty in hiring and/or retaining appropriate financial staff needed to enable us to continue to comply with the internal control requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related regulations. Any inability to successfully retain key employees and manage our personnel needs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Growth in our operations internationally may create increased risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited experience with operations outside Russia and in 2012 derived only approximately 5% of our revenues from advertisers outside Russia. Part of our future growth strategy is to expand our operations geographically on an opportunistic basis. Our geographic expansion efforts generally require the expenditure of significant costs in the new geography prior to achieving the market share necessary to support the commercialization of our services, which allows us to begin generating revenues in the new geography. For example, in 2011 we launched operations in Turkey. As of February 2013, our share of the internet search market in Turkey was 2% and we have not yet commercialized our services in Turkey nor begun generating revenues there. Our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations across a broader range of geographies will require considerable management attention and resources and is subject to a number of risks relating to new markets, including the following: •challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; •uncertainty regarding liability for services and content; •credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud in certain countries; •pressure on our operating margins as we invest to support our expansion; •currency exchange rate fluctuations and our ability to manage our currency exposure; •foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in certain countries; •increased risk of claims for infringement of intellectual property; •potentially adverse tax consequences; and •higher costs and greater management time associated with doing business internationally. In addition, compliance with complex and potentially conflicting foreign and Russian laws and regulations that apply to our international operations may increase our cost of doing business and may interfere with our ability to offer, or prevent us from offering, our services in one or more countries. These numerous laws and regulations include import and export requirements, content requirements, 13 Table of Contents trade restrictions, tax laws, sanctions, internal and disclosure control rules, data privacy and filtering requirements, labor relations laws, U.S. laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Violations of these laws and regulations may result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, we cannot assure you that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. Any such violations may result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our services in one or more countries, and may also materially adversely affect our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Russian ruble has experienced significant fluctuations against foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar, in recent years. Although our revenues and expenses are both primarily denominated in Russian rubles, the majority of our rent expenses, including the lease for our Moscow headquarters, are denominated in U.S. dollars. Additionally, a major portion of our capital expenditures, primarily for servers and networking equipment, although payable in rubles, are imported and can therefore be materially affected by changes in the U.S. dollar to Russian ruble exchange rate. If the Russian ruble were to experience a prolonged and significant decline against foreign currencies, however, we could face material foreign currency exchange exposure, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Financial results for any particular period are not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. Our historical results of operations may not be useful in predicting our future results. Our results of operations may fluctuate from period to period as a result of any of the risk factors described in this Annual Report and, in particular, due to: •economic conditions generally and those specific to the internet and online advertising, both in Russia and globally; •the level of use of internet search engines to find information; •the amount of advertising purchased and market prices for online advertising; •the volume of searches conducted, the amounts bid by advertisers or the number of advertisers that bid in our advertising system; •our ability to compete effectively for users, advertisers, partner websites and content; and •the proportion of our revenues generated on our websites relative to those generated through the Yandex ad network or through distribution partners, as a result of the revenue-sharing arrangements we enter into and the overall volume of advertising we provide to our partners. Due to the seasonal nature of advertising spending, future results of operations may fluctuate from period to period and from quarter to quarter, which may cause our share price to decline. Advertising spending and user traffic tend to be seasonal, with internet usage, online spending and traffic historically slowing down during January, May and June and increasing significantly in the fourth quarter of each year. For these reasons, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on past results as an indication of future performance. Quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of revenues may be significantly different from 14 Table of Contents historical or projected rates and may fall below market expectations in a given period, which may cause our share price to decline. Index spammers could harm the integrity of our search results, which may damage our reputation, cause our users to be dissatisfied with our services and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. So-called "index spammers" seek to develop ways to manipulate internet search results. For example, because our search technology ranks a webpage's relevance based in part on the importance of the websites that link to it, people have attempted to link groups of websites together to manipulate search results. We take this problem seriously because providing relevant information to users is at the core of our business and critical to our success. If our efforts to combat these and other types of index spamming are unsuccessful, our reputation for delivering relevant results could be harmed. This could result in a decline in user traffic, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by malicious applications that interfere with or exploit security flaws in our services. Third parties have in the past attempted, and may in the future attempt, to use malicious applications to change our users' internet experience, including hijacking queries to our search engine, altering or replacing Yandex search results, or otherwise interfering with our ability to connect with our users. Such interference often occurs without disclosure to or consent from users, resulting in a negative experience that users may associate with Yandex. In addition, we offer applications and services that our users download to their computers or that they rely on to store information and transmit information to others over the internet. These services are subject to attack by viruses, worms and other malicious software programs, which could jeopardize the security of information stored in a user's computer or in our computer systems and networks. If our efforts to combat these malicious applications are unsuccessful, or if our services have actual or perceived vulnerabilities, our reputation may be harmed, our user traffic could decline, and our communications with certain users could be impaired, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As with any other internet company, Yandex is at risk of becoming a target of cracking (efforts to defeat security or encryption protections), a distributed denial-of-service attack, or another computer attack, which could result in a temporary closing of the Yandex site or some of its services. Such an attack could also lead to the destruction or theft of information, potentially including confidential or proprietary information relating to Yandex's intellectual property, content and users. For example, if a third party were to hack into our network, they could obtain access to our search code. This information could potentially be valuable to our competitors or to search engine optimizers who are looking to improve their clients' site rankings within our search results pages. We are not presently aware of a situation where our code has been used in a way that would harm us, but we may be faced with such a situation in the future. Certain technologies could block our ads, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third parties have in the past, and may in the future, employ technologies to block the display of ads on webpages. Ad-blocking technology, if used effectively, would reduce the amount of revenue generated by the ads we serve and decrease the confidence of our advertisers and Yandex ad network partners in our advertising technology, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents If we fail to detect click fraud or other invalid clicks, we may face litigation and may lose the confidence of our advertisers, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent and invalid clicks on our ads from a variety of potential sources. Invalid clicks are clicks that we have determined are not intended by the user to access the underlying content, including clicks resulting from click fraud. Click fraud occurs when a user intentionally clicks on an ad displayed on a website for a reason other than to view the underlying content. We monitor our own websites and those of our partners for click fraud and proactively seek to prevent click fraud and filter out fraudulent clicks. To the extent that we are unsuccessful in doing so, we credit our advertisers for clicks that are later attributed to click fraud. If we are unable to stop these invalid clicks, these credits to our advertisers may increase. If we find new evidence of past invalid clicks, we may retroactively issue credits to advertisers of amounts previously paid to our network partners. This negatively affects our profitability, and these invalid clicks may harm our brand. As the internet evolves, an increasing amount of online content may be held in closed social networks or stored in proprietary document formats, which may limit the effectiveness of our search technology, which could adversely affect our brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. Social networks are becoming increasingly important players in the internet market, and have a significant degree of control over the manner and extent to which information on their websites can be accessed through third-party search engines. For example, in early 2013 we launched our Wonder mobile application in the United States, which enabled personalized search of information available to users through their accounts with various social networks and services, including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Foursquare. Facebook subsequently blocked our access to its platform Application Programming Interface and launched a graph search service of its own. In addition, a large amount of information on the internet is provided in proprietary document formats such as Microsoft Word and Adobe Acrobat. The providers of the software applications used to create these documents could engineer the document format to prevent or interfere with our ability to access the document contents with our search technology. If social networks or software providers take steps to prevent their content or documents in their formats from being searchable, this would mean that such content would not be included in our search results even if the content was directly relevant to a search request. These parties may also seek to require us to pay them royalties in exchange for giving us the ability to search content on their sites or documents in their format. If these parties also compete with us in the search business, they may give their search technology a preferential ability to search their content or documents in their proprietary format. Any of these results could adversely affect our brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, which may adversely affect our competitive position, our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a combination of trademarks, trade secrets and copyrights, as well as nondisclosure agreements, to protect our intellectual property rights. Historically, we did not seek patent protection for the intellectual property we have developed, but in 2012, we established our patent department that is responsible for developing and implementing our group-wide IP protection strategy in selected jurisdictions. To date, we have filed a number of patent applications and industrial designs, of which some have already been issued. The protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in Russia and other markets in which we operate may not be as effective as that in the United States or Western Europe. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any significant infringement of our intellectual property rights could harm our business, our brand and/or 16 Table of Contents our ability to compete, all of which could adversely affect our competitive position, our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which are costly to defend, could result in significant damage awards, and could limit our ability to provide certain content or use certain technologies in the future. A number of internet, technology, media and patent-holding companies own or are actively developing patents covering search, indexing, electronic commerce and other internet-related technologies, as well as a variety of online business models and methods. We believe that these parties will continue to take steps to protect these technologies, including, but not limited to, seeking patent protection in certain jurisdictions. As a result, disputes regarding the ownership of technologies and rights associated with online activities are likely to arise in the future. In addition, use of open-source software is often subject to compliance with certain license terms, which we may inadvertently breach. With respect to any intellectual property rights claim, we may have to pay damages or stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party's rights. We may have to seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all, and may significantly increase our operating expenses. We may be required to develop an alternative non-infringing technology, which may require significant effort, expense and time to develop. If we cannot license or develop technology for the infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our service offerings and may be unable to compete effectively. We may also incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party infringement claims regardless of the merit of such claims. We may be subject to claims from our current or former employees as well as contractors for copyright, trade secret and patent-related matters, which are costly to defend and if lost by us could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. The software, databases, algorithms, images as well as patentable results and trade secrets (know-how) that we use for the operation of our services were generally developed, invented or created by our former or current employees or contractors during the course of their employment with us within the scope of their job functions or under the relevant contractor's agreement, as the case may be. As a matter of Russian law, we are deemed to have acquired copyright, related rights as well as rights to file patent applications with respect to such products, and have the exclusive rights to their further use and disposal subject to compliance with certain requirements set in the Civil Code of Russia. We believe that we have appropriately followed such requirements, but they are defined in a broad and ambiguous manner and their precise application has never been determined by the Russian courts. Therefore, former or current employees or contractors could either challenge the transfer of exclusive rights over the employment or contractually created products developed by them or claim the right to additional compensation for their works for hire and/or patentable results, in addition to their employment compensation. Although we believe that we would prevail in any such actions, we cannot assure you that we would do so. Any successful claim could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. We may be held liable for information or content displayed on, retrieved from or linked to on our websites, or distributed by our users, which could harm our reputation and business. The law relating to the liability of providers of online services for the activities of their users is currently not settled in Russia and some other countries in which we operate. Claims may be brought against us for defamation, libel, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement, tort (including personal injury), fraud, other unlawful activity or other theories and claims based on the nature and content of information to which we link or that may be posted online via blogs and message boards, generated by our users or delivered or shared through our services such as email, chat rooms, hypertext 17 Table of Contents links to third-party websites, or video, image and file storage services, if appropriate licenses and/or rights holder's consents have not been obtained. For example, we are currently involved in litigation with a third party, Perfect 10, Inc., regarding alleged copyright infringement in the United States. Third parties may also seek to assert claims against us alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy rights or failure to maintain the confidentiality of user data. Our defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources. From time to time we have received notices from individuals who do not want their names or websites to appear in our search results when certain keywords are searched. It is possible that we could be held liable when that information appears in our search results. Claims could also be brought against us for operating anti-spam technologies fighting spam on our search results and email service. If one of these complaints results in liability to us, it could potentially be costly, encourage similar lawsuits, distract management and harm our reputation and possibly our business. In addition, increased attention to these issues and related legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise affect the growth of our business. We are also regularly approached and asked to remove content uploaded by users on the grounds of alleged copyright infringement. In such cases, we investigate the claims and any uploads that appear to infringe the rights of a third party are removed. It is not possible to review and proactively monitor all content linked to or posted on our websites, and the risk of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights remains. Our guidelines and procedures may not be effective in preventing the unauthorized posting of copyrighted material. There has been no legislation or settled court practice in Russia that provides clear guidance as to whether or under what circumstances online service providers, including hosting providers, administrators of websites and internet portals can be held liable for the unauthorized posting by users of copyrighted material. Current court practice in this sphere is inconsistent in certain instances and may impose extended obligations and create additional risks for online service providers as compared to regulation in Western countries. In September 2012, a new law came into force in Russia related to the protection of minors from information harmful to their health and development. The law restricts circulation of certain identified categories of publicly available information that may be harmful for minors. There is a requirement to take administrative and technical measures to prevent dissemination of restricted information. Information designated for specific age categories of minors must be accompanied with a relevant mark identifying the age restriction category of the information. Although the requirement for age category identification for information made available on the internet has not been established (except for the websites registered as mass media) and is voluntary, this law is largely ambiguous and there is limited practice of implementation of such legislation in Russia, which may lead to a high degree of discretion on the part of governmental authorities in its implementation, as well as abuse of this law. Given these uncertainties, we cannot assure you that regulators, judicial authorities or third parties will not challenge our compliance with this law. In November, 2012 an additional law came into effect establishing a system for the blocking of websites that make available specific categories of illegal information related to child pornography, encouraging suicide or drug use as well as other restricted information and providing for creation of the uniform register of domain names, website page locators and network addresses enabling identification of websites on the internet. In the event a certain domain name or webpage is included in the register at the decision of the relevant state authority (in the event of child pornography, information encouraging suicides and drug use) or on the basis of a court ruling (any other restricted information) and neither the website administrator nor hosting provider has taken down relevant material, the IP address of the website is included in the register and Russian internet service providers as well as telecommunication service operations are required to block access to all the material located at the IP address included in the registry (potentially an entire website or a number of websites having no relation to the material in question in the event they share the same IP address). The legal 18 Table of Contents framework related to the blacklist of websites is very controversial and is likely subject to developments and further adjustments. The Federal Service for Supervision in the Sphere of Telecom, Information Technologies and Mass Communications ("Roscomnadzor") issued a clarification on November 30, 2012 specifying that search engines, news aggregators and cached information used in the course of their operation will not be included in the register, as being outside of the regulatory scope of the law. However, the regulator's approach may change and our operations might be adversely affected by application of the website blacklist legislation. Our ability to offer our services may be adversely affected by laws and regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and the protection of user data, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current or future Russian and foreign laws and regulations may govern the collection, use, sharing and security of data that we receive from our users and partners. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with current practice. If so, we could face fines or orders requiring that we change our operating practices, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increasing public awareness of these issues could lead to further restrictions on the use of such data, which could in turn affect our search performance and therefore our ability to generate advertising revenue. In addition, it is our policy to protect the privacy of our users and to keep confidential the data they provide to us, and as a result we may choose not to exploit certain opportunities to maximize revenues in ways that could jeopardize our users' trust in us in this regard. Furthermore, we perform placement of cookies and use other wide-spread technologies that assist us in improving the user experience of our products and services and ultimately benefit both our users and advertisers to the extent that we use a certain part of this collected information for behavioral targeting of the advertising. There have been no clear legislative guidelines about whether our practices are compliant with the requirements of the data protection legislation in Russia and abroad. There is a risk that such laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is not consistent with our current data protection practices. Additionally, as our business grows in foreign jurisdictions beyond Russia and our services are offered to foreign users we might encounter increased pressure from foreign state authorities with respect to production of information related to the users in circumvention of the international legal framework in that area. Any non-compliance with such requests may lead to liability and other adverse consequences. We rely on third-party providers for our principal internet connections and equipment critical to our internet properties and services, and any errors, failures or disruption in the products and services provided by these third parties may materially adversely affect our brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. Any disruption in the network access provided by third parties or any failure by them to handle current or higher volumes of use may significantly harm our business. We exercise little control over these third parties, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience interruptions and delays in service. Furthermore, we depend on hardware and software suppliers for prompt delivery, installation and service of servers and other equipment to deliver our services. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party products and services may negatively impact our relationship with users and materially adversely affect our brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We may have difficulty scaling and adapting our existing technology architecture to accommodate increased traffic and technology advances or new requirements of our users and advertisers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. With some of the most highly visited websites in Russia, we deliver a growing number of services and page views to an increasing number of users. In addition, the services we offer have expanded and changed significantly and are expected to continue to do so in the future to accommodate bandwidth-intensive technologies and means of content delivery, such as interactive multimedia and video. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adjust our services to evolving industry standards and to maintain the performance and reliability of our services. Rapid increases in the levels or types of use of our online services could result in delays or interruptions in our services. As we expand our services, we will need to continue to invest in new technology infrastructure, including data centers. We may have difficulty in expanding our infrastructure to meet any rising demand for our services, including difficulties in obtaining suitable facilities or access to sufficient electricity supplies, particularly in and around Moscow. A failure to expand our infrastructure could materially and adversely affect our ability to maintain and increase our revenues and profitability and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not carry the insurance coverage commonly carried by companies in our industry, and as a result may experience substantial loss or disruption that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently insure our data centers or carry business interruption or key man insurance, primarily because the high cost of insurance in Russia makes it more economically rational to self-insure. We also believe that our redundant data centers would allow us to avoid or minimize any potential business interruption. We do not maintain separate funds or otherwise set aside cash reserves for related losses. Any such loss could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A systems failure or human error could prevent us from providing search results or ads, which could lead to a loss of users and advertisers and damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have implemented network security measures, our systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from terrorist attacks, denial-of-service attacks, computer viruses or other cyberattacks or attempts to harm our system, power losses, telecommunications failures, floods, fires, extreme weather conditions, earthquakes and similar events. Our data centers, which we maintain ourselves, are also potentially subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism, and to potential disruptions. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service, which could reduce our revenues and profits, and our brand could be damaged if people believe our services are unreliable. From time to time, we have experienced power outages that have interrupted access to our services and impacted the functioning of our internal systems. Although we have installed back-up generators, these may not operate properly through a major sustained power outage or their fuel supply could be inadequate. Any unscheduled interruption in our service places a burden on our entire organization and would result in an immediate loss of revenue. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures on our websites, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. The steps we have taken to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems are expensive, reduce our operating margin and may not successfully reduce the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. 20 Table of Contents In addition to physical damage and power outages, our systems are also vulnerable to human error. For example, in August 2011 we experienced a network outage resulting from human error, which resulted in more than two hours of system down time and which had a temporary negative effect on our search market share, while we experienced two shorter periods of downtime in September 2012 due to coding errors, which had less serious impacts on our search share. Errors made by our employees in maintaining or expanding our systems may damage our brand and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on the continued development and maintenance of the internet infrastructure in the countries in which we operate. Our future success will depend on the continued development and maintenance of the internet infrastructure globally and particularly in the countries in which we operate. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliable internet services. The internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it by growing numbers of users and time spent online or increased bandwidth requirements. Any outages or delays resulting from inadequate internet infrastructure could reduce the level of internet usage as well as our ability to provide our services to users, advertisers and network partners, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may seek to acquire complementary businesses, teams and technologies in the future, and may fail to identify suitable targets, acquire them on acceptable terms or successfully integrate them, which may limit our ability to implement our growth strategy. We have limited experience with acquisitions, and the acquisitions we have made to date have been relatively small. For example, in November 2011 we completed the acquisition of the mobile software business of SPB Software. See "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Recent Acquisitions". We continue to evaluate selected potential acquisitions and, from time to time, may engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions. Any of these transactions may be material to our business, financial condition and results of operations. The acquisition and integration of new businesses or technologies pose significant risks to our existing operations, including: •additional demands placed on our management, who are also responsible for managing our existing operations; •increased overall operating complexity of our business, requiring greater personnel and other resources; •difficulties in expanding beyond our core expertise; and •significant initial cash expenditures or share dilution in connection with acquiring and integrating new businesses. The integration of new businesses may be difficult for a variety of reasons, including differing cultures or management styles, poor financial records or internal controls on the part of acquired companies, and an inability to establish control over cash flows. Furthermore, even if we are successful in integrating new businesses, expected cost and operating efficiencies may not materialize, the financial benefits from the acquisition may be less than anticipated, and we could be required to record impairment changes in respect of under-performing assets. Moreover, our growth may suffer if we fail to identify suitable acquisition targets or are outbid by competing bidders. As a NASDAQ-listed company, we are subject to securities laws and regulations that, in certain circumstances, require that we file with the SEC audited historical financial statements for businesses we acquire that exceed certain materiality thresholds. Given financial reporting practices in Russia and other countries in which we operate, such financial statements are often not readily 21 Table of Contents available or not capable of being audited to the standards required by U.S. securities regulations. As a result, we may be prevented from or delayed in pursuing acquisition opportunities that our competitors and other financial and strategic investors are able to pursue, which may limit our ability to implement our growth strategy. If we are unable to license, acquire or create compelling content at reasonable costs, the number of users of our services may not grow as anticipated or may decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to aggregate and deliver compelling content. We license from third parties much of the content of our services, such as news items, weather reports and TV program schedules. If we are unable to maintain and build relationships with third-party content providers this would likely result in a loss of user traffic. In addition, we may be required to make substantial payments to third parties from which we license or acquire such content. An increase in the prices charged to us by third-party content providers would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, many of our content licenses with third parties are non-exclusive. Accordingly, other websites and other media such as radio or television may be able to offer similar or identical content. This increases the importance of our ability to aggregate compelling content in order to differentiate Yandex from other businesses. If other companies make available competitive content, the number of users of our services may not grow as anticipated, or may decline. Our Yandex.Money service may be used for fraudulent, illegal or improper purposes, which could materially adversely affect our brand, reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our electronic payments system is susceptible to fraud and to potentially illegal or improper uses, and we have on occasion identified or been informed of such uses in the past. These may include: •illegal online gambling; •fraudulent sales of goods or services or other merchant fraud; •illicit sales of prescription medications, controlled substances, alcoholic beverages or tobacco products; •software and other intellectual property piracy; •bank or securities fraud, identity theft or money laundering; •improper use of the service for business-to-business transactions; •child pornography or trafficking; and •other illegal or improper purposes. In December 2012, we entered into an agreement pursuant to which Sberbank will acquire 75 percent (less one ruble) of our Yandex.Money business. Upon completion of this transaction, which is expected in the second quarter of 2013, we will enter into a joint venture arrangement with Sberbank in respect of the future operation of this business. Our ability to control the day-to-day operations of Yandex.Money following completion of the Sberbank transaction will be more limited than was the case while we were the owner of this business. If Yandex.Money is unable to prevent, detect or otherwise adequately address fraud or other improper uses of its services, users may lose confidence in the integrity and security of its services, which may result in a reduction in the number of users and transactions. Any negative publicity associated with the Yandex name in connection with such activities, including criminal proceedings against a user who conducts illegal activities using its services, could 22 Table of Contents result in damage to our brand or reputation. If we are unable to manage these risks, our brand, reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Failure to maintain effective customer service may result in customer complaints and negative publicity and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our services or those offered by Yandex.Money, or breaches of customers' privacy and our security measures, could diminish consumer confidence in and use of our services. Measures to combat risks of fraud and breaches of privacy and security, such as freezing customer funds in the Yandex.Money system, may damage relations with our customers and lead to investigations and claims from the governmental bodies. These measures heighten the need for prompt and accurate customer service to resolve irregularities and disputes. Effective customer service requires significant personnel expense, and such expense, if not managed properly, may impact our profitability or that of Yandex.Money. Any inability by us to manage or train our customer service representatives, or those of Yandex.Money, properly could compromise our ability to handle customer complaints effectively. If we and Yandex.Money fail to maintain effective customer service, our reputation may suffer and we may lose our customers' confidence, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The inherent limitations of the available data regarding internet usage and online advertising may make it difficult to assess our markets and our market position. We rely on and refer to information and statistics from various third-party sources, as well as our own internal estimates regarding internet usage and penetration, and the online advertising markets in the countries in which we operate. The information and statistics used in our industry are subject to inherent limitations reflecting the differing metrics and measurement methods utilized and applied by different sources; for example, data derived from computer usage contrasted to that derived from user surveys. In addition, while we believe that the available data and research on the Russian market is of comparable quality to that available in most developed countries, the data for Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Belarus are generally less consistent and reliable due to more limited measurement methods in those countries. Risks Related to Doing Business and Investing in Russia and the Other Countries in which We Operate Economic crises may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Russian economy was adversely affected by the global financial and economic crisis that began in the second half of 2008. The total spending on media advertising in Russia decreased by 43% in dollar terms and 28% in ruble terms in 2009 compared to 2008. Although economic conditions have improved, the medium-term outlook is unsettled and we cannot assure you that the recovery of the economy in Russia and the other countries in which we operate will be sustained. Moreover, any renewed deterioration of the international economic situation would likely negatively impact the economies in the countries in which we operate and, as a result, adversely affect the profitability of our business. In addition, the Russian economy is dependent on exports of natural resources, and therefore particularly sensitive to fluctuations in the world prices of crude oil, natural gas and other commodities. A sustained decline in the price of crude oil, natural gas and other commodities may further disrupt the Russian economy and result in reductions in consumer spending and therefore advertising spend. Global recession and any downturns in the markets in which we operate could reduce advertising demand, constrain our ability to find new users and advertising customers or retain existing ones and to collect payments from them, and may prevent us from executing our growth strategy. Adverse economic conditions may also hurt our liquidity, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Emerging markets, such as Russia, are generally subject to greater risks than more developed markets, and global financial or economic crises or turmoil in any large emerging market economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Global financial or economic crises or financial turmoil in any large emerging market country tend to adversely affect prices in equity markets of most or all emerging markets as investors move their money to more stable, developed markets. Future financial problems or an increase in the perceived risks associated with investing in emerging economies could dampen foreign investment and adversely affect the economies of the countries in which we operate. In addition, during such times, businesses that operate in emerging markets can face severe liquidity constraints as foreign funding sources are withdrawn. For these reasons, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by any future global or Russian financial crises. Inflation may increase our costs and exert downward pressure on our operating margin. The Russian economy has generally been characterized by high rates of inflation in recent years. According to the Russian Federal State Statistics Service, Rosstat, the annual inflation rate in Russia was 8.8% in 2010, 6.1% in 2011 and 6.6% in 2012, as measured by the consumer price index. Because substantially all of our operations are in Russia, our costs are sensitive to increases in prices in Russia. As a result, high rates of inflation increase our costs, and we cannot assure you that these increases in cost will not negatively impact our operating margin. The legal system in Russia and other countries in which we operate can create an uncertain environment for investment and business activity that could have a material adverse effect on the value of our Class A shares, our business, financial condition and results of operations. The legal framework supporting a market economy remains new and in flux in Russia and the other countries in which we operate and, as a result, the relevant legal systems can be characterized by: •inconsistencies between and among laws and regulations; •gaps in the regulatory structure resulting from the delay in adoption or absence of implementing regulations and a subordinate legal framework; •selective and inconsistent enforcement of laws or regulations, sometimes in ways that have been perceived as being motivated by political or financial considerations; •scarce judicial and administrative guidance on interpreting legislation; •relatively limited experience of judges and courts in interpreting recent commercial legislation as well as in understanding specifics of business operations and international best practices in the sphere of information technology and other areas; •a perceived lack of judicial and prosecutorial independence from political, social and commercial forces; •inadequate court system resources; •a high degree of discretion on the part of the judiciary and governmental authorities; and •poorly developed bankruptcy procedures that are not infrequently abused. In addition, as is true of civil law systems generally, judicial precedents generally have no binding effect on subsequent decisions (except for a certain limited authority of the Russian Higher Arbitrazh Commercial State Court to issue rulings and guidelines that are binding on lower courts). Not all legislation and court decisions are readily available to the public or organized in a manner that facilitates understanding. Enforcement of Russian court rulings as well as recognition and enforcement 24 Table of Contents of foreign state court awards may prove to be substantially problematic. All of these factors make judicial decisions difficult to predict and effective protection of infringed rights and interests uncertain. Additionally, court claims and governmental prosecutions may be used in furtherance of what some perceive to be political aims. Scarce and inconsistent enforcement practice with respect to recent legislation in the countries in which we operate and the rapid evolution of their legal systems may result in ambiguities, inconsistencies and anomalies in the application and interpretation of laws and regulations. Any of these factors may affect our ability to enforce our rights under our contracts or to defend ourselves against claims by others, or result in our being subject to unpredictable requirements, and could have a material adverse effect on the value of our Class A shares and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The legal framework governing internet services and e-commerce in Russia and the other countries in which we operate is undeveloped, and we may be required to have additional licenses, permits or registrations, or to take additional actions in order to conduct our business, which may be costly or may limit our flexibility to run our business. Although we believe that we have all material licenses and permits required to conduct our business, court interpretations and the applicability of Russian commercial legislation and regulations in relation to our business can be ambiguous or contradictory and it is possible that the authorities may determine that we are required to have additional licenses, permits or registrations. In particular: •Current Russian law requires that a company hold a "telematics" license if it provides services for a fee by means of telecommunications services. We do not charge for the internet services we provide to our users and therefore believe we are not required to hold a telematics license; we do, however, generate revenue from ads directed to our users. It is possible that a Russian court or a government agency may construe our advertising revenue as an indirect "fee" and determine that we are required to hold a telematics license. Additionally, as we may further develop certain user services that would be provided for a fee in the future, we cannot assure you that such services, if developed, would not trigger the licensing requirements referenced above. •Russian businesses that use certain encryption technologies in their products and services may be required to obtain a license from the Russian Federal Security Service and to observe numerous licensing requirements relating to the use of certified encryption means and equipment. We obtained encryption licenses for the purposes of operating the Yandex.Money service, although we cannot assure you that Yandex.Money will be able to maintain these licenses or ensure compliance with all applicable requirements, particularly in relation to the use of certified encryption means and the timely extension of certification when its term expires. Currently, the encryption licenses are held by our directly owned subsidiary PS Yandex.Money LLC, which provides certain services, including related to encryption, to its subsidiary, a non-banking credit organization, which processes payments. The non-banking credit organization does not itself hold an encryption license. Although we believe that this arrangement is in compliance with Russian law, and that there is no need for the non-banking credit organization to obtain separate encryption licenses, we could be subject to administrative liability if the relevant authorities were to determine that we delivered encryption services without proper license. •Russian law requires that "mass media" businesses be registered with the applicable governmental authority. Although Russian law does not specifically include internet enterprises in the list of mass media businesses, several internet businesses that publish news have been required to obtain an electronic mass media registration. Our principal operating subsidiary, which operates our search and most of our other user services and online properties, does not 25 Table of Contents hold a mass media registration. In November 2011, a legislative amendment was implemented, permitting electronic network publications (websites) to register on a voluntary basis as mass media under the procedures established by the law. We have determined that we are not required to register as a mass media business; however, we cannot assure you that we will not be required to register as a mass media business in the future, especially if the current law changes. At the same time, the legal framework in this respect may change. Obtaining and maintaining such registration may be burdensome and costly, and may adversely affect our business. We may have to apply for additional licenses, permits or registrations to comply with new or existing legal requirements, which may be costly or may limit our flexibility to run our business. If we fail to obtain and maintain required licenses, permits or registrations, we may face fines, penalties or sanctions. These may include a requirement that we permanently or temporarily cease certain of our business activities, administrative penalties or criminal prosecution of our officers. In addition, we might be unable to immediately comply with new regulations upon their implementation. We may be subject to laws that impose restrictions on the collection and distribution of certain types of personal and other data via the internet, which may affect our ability to flexibly manage our business or make it more costly to do so, or subject us to fines or other penalties. Current law imposes restrictions on the distribution of satellite images of certain areas in Russia and the other countries in which we operate and imposes requirements with respect to the information provided by the traffic monitoring service we offer. If we were found to be in violation of any such restrictions, we may be forced to suspend such services or may potentially be subject to fines or other penalties. Collection and handling of personal data by any entity or person in Russia must be performed in compliance with certain requirements and restrictions, including obtaining written consent from the relevant individual and using technical and encryption means for the protection of personal data. In addition, subject to several exemptions, a notification must be made to the appropriate Russian governmental body, Roscomnadzor, to process personal data. We do not collect or perform any operations on our users' personal data, except when such collection or processing is necessary for the purposes of carrying out our contractual obligations to them. Due to the absence of established court practice and official guidelines on the application of exemptions, however, we cannot assure you that the regulator may not take a view that we nevertheless have to file a notification or comply with other requirements. The regulator has recently expressed the view that the Yandex.Money business should file a notification; Yandex.Money addressed all the requests received from the state body specifying that the notification is not required and to date there have been no further developments in this respect. If we are ultimately required to file such a notification or otherwise are determined to be subject to the rules regarding the collection and handling of personal data, we may be required to use special technical facilities and equipment and to adopt extensive internal compliance rules for the protection of personal data, which may adversely affect our ability to flexibly manage our business or make it more costly to do so. We may be subject to existing or new advertising legislation that could restrict the types and relevance of the ads we serve, which would result in a loss of advertisers and therefore a reduction in our revenues. Russian law prohibits the sale and advertising of certain products, such as illegal drugs. In addition, advertising for certain regulated products and services may only be conducted by, or on behalf of, advertisers who possess the licenses, approvals and certificates required to market and sell such products and services. Ads for certain products and services, such as tobacco, pharmaceuticals and financial services, as well as ads aimed at minors and some others, must comply with specific rules and must in certain cases contain required disclaimers. Furthermore, a July 2012 amendment to Russian advertising legislation outlawed advertising of alcohol on the internet as well as in periodicals. The 26 Table of Contents application of these laws to parties, such as Yandex, that merely serve or distribute such ads and do not market or sell the product or service, however, can be unclear. Pursuant to our terms of service, we require that our advertisers have all required licenses or authorizations. If our advertisers do not comply with these requirements, and these laws were to be interpreted to apply to us, or if our ad-serving system failed to include necessary disclaimers, we may be exposed to administrative fines or other sanctions, and may have to limit the types of advertisers we serve. See "Information on the Company—Government Regulation". The regulatory framework in Russia governing the use of behavioral targeting in online advertising is unclear. If new legislation were to be adopted, or current legislation were to be interpreted, to restrict the use of behavioral targeting in online advertising, this may significantly limit our ability to enhance the targeting of our advertising, which could result in a loss of advertisers or a reduction in the relevance of the ads we serve, which would reduce the number of clicks on the ads and therefore our revenues. Our need to comply with applicable Russian laws and regulations could hamper our ability to offer services that compete effectively with those of our foreign competitors and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our global competitors, such as Google, Microsoft and Yahoo!, have their principal operations outside of Russia, putting them generally outside of the jurisdiction of Russian courts and government agencies, even though some of them have offices in Russia. Our systems and operations are located principally in Russia. Russian laws and regulations that are applicable to us, but not to our foreign competitors, may impede our ability to develop and offer services that compete effectively on a global scale as well as in Russia with those offered by our foreign-based competitors and generally available worldwide over the internet. For example, our foreign competitors may be able to offer certain content that is now, or may in the future be, restricted by Russian law. Any inability on our part to offer services that are competitive with those offered by our foreign competitors may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Russian authorities could determine that we hold a dominant position in our markets, and could impose limitations on our operational flexibility which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Russian anti-monopoly authorities impose various requirements on companies that occupy a dominant position in their markets. We believe that the anti-monopoly authorities have not to date addressed internet advertising in Russia; however, at the same time, an antitrust authority official recently expressed the intention of the regulators to perform an analysis of the business of social networks in 2013-2014 which potentially could include scrutiny of the overall online advertising market. If, and when they do so, Russian authorities may conclude that, given our market share, we hold a dominant position in one or more of the markets in which we operate, which could result in limitations on our future acquisitions and a requirement that we pre-clear with the authorities any changes to our standard agreements with advertisers and Yandex ad network partners, as well as any specially negotiated agreements with business partners. In addition, if we were to decline to conclude a contract with a third party this could, in certain circumstances, be regarded as abuse of a dominant market position. Any abuse of a dominant market position could lead to administrative penalties and the imposition of fines of up to 15% of our prior year annual revenues in the relevant market. These limitations may reduce our operational and commercial flexibility and responsiveness, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Russian securities law may require us to list our securities on a stock exchange in Russia, which could impose additional administrative burdens on us and decrease the liquidity of trading in our shares on NASDAQ. Russian companies that list their securities on an exchange outside of Russia are required by law to first list their securities concurrently on a licensed Russian stock exchange and to offer their securities in Russia. Our parent company Yandex N.V., whose Class A shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, is not covered by such requirement, as it is incorporated outside Russia. The Russian securities regulator, the Federal Service for Financial Markets, has at various times officially emphasized that foreign issuers with substantial assets in Russia should undertake concurrent listings in Russia, and has proposed to change the securities regulations with the view to making such requirement mandatory. As a result, we can provide no assurance that we will not experience pressure to list our shares in Russia, which may impose additional administrative burdens on us and may result in a reduction of the liquidity of trading in our shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Businesses in Russia, especially high-profile companies, may be subject to aggressive application of contradictory or ambiguous laws or regulations, or to politically motivated actions, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many commercial laws and regulations in Russia are relatively new and have been subject to limited interpretation. As a result, their application can be unpredictable. In addition, government authorities have a tendency to follow a very formal approach in certain cases and are entrusted with a high degree of discretion in Russia and have at times exercised their discretion in ways that may be perceived as selective or arbitrary, and sometimes in a manner that is seen as being influenced by political or commercial considerations. Such actions have included the termination or invalidation of contracts, withdrawal of licenses, sudden and unexpected tax audits, criminal prosecutions and civil actions. Federal and local government entities have also used common defects in documentation as pretexts for court claims and other demands to invalidate and/or to void transactions, apparently for political purposes. We cannot assure you that regulators, judicial authorities or third parties will not challenge our compliance with applicable laws, decrees and regulations. The Russian government has taken various actions in recent years against business people and companies operating in Russia that have been perceived as having been politically motivated, including actions for technical violations of law or violations of laws that have been applied retroactively, such as violations of tax laws, or interpretations of widely used practices in specific cases as impermissible. In 2008, for example, government officials publicly criticized transfer pricing arrangements used by a Russian-based company that is publicly traded in the United States, claiming that such arrangements constituted tax evasion. These claims resulted in a steep decline in that company's stock price. Government officials may apply contradictory or ambiguous laws or regulations in ways that have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such actions have on occasion resulted in significant fluctuations in the market prices of the securities of businesses operating in Russia, a weakening of investor confidence in Russia and doubts about the progress of market and political reforms in Russia. High-profile businesses in Russia, such as ours, can be particularly vulnerable to politically motivated actions. Some Russian television broadcasters, for example, have experienced what some would characterize as politically motivated actions, including efforts to facilitate change of control. Although we believe that our commitment to content neutrality principles lessens the risk of politically motivated actions against us, we cannot guarantee that we will not be affected by politically motivated actions that could materially adversely affect our operations. Moreover, although our Yandex.News service aggregates content by algorithm, without regard to viewpoint, other parties may perceive our Yandex.News service as reflecting a political viewpoint or agenda, which could subject us to politically motivated actions. 28 Table of Contents Restrictions on foreign ownership imposed by Russian legislation may prevent a takeover of our company by a non-Russian party. The Russian Federal Law "On the Procedure for Foreign Investments in Companies which are Strategically Important for the State Defense and National Security" (the "Strategic Companies Law") restricts foreign ownership of companies involved in certain strategically important activities in Russia. The internet and online advertising are not currently industries specifically covered by the Strategic Companies Law, but a draft amendment currently under consideration by the Russian State Duma, if adopted, would include certain internet companies that have large audiences within the scope of this law. In addition, companies that hold licenses to use encryption technologies are covered by this law. Our Yandex.Money business holds encryption licenses and is therefore currently covered by the Strategic Companies Law. Under the provisions of the Strategic Companies Law, the direct or indirect acquisition of more than 25% of the voting power of a strategically important company by a foreign state, foreign governmental organization, international organization or entity controlled by a foreign government, or international organization, or the acquisition of more than 50% of the voting power of such a company by any other foreign investor or any of its affiliated companies, requires the prior approval of a Russian government committee chaired by the Prime Minister. In addition, foreign investors or their group companies that are controlled by a foreign state or a foreign government or international organization are prohibited from owning more than 50% of the voting power of a strategically important company. Moreover, the acquisition of 5% or more of the shares of a strategically important company triggers a notification requirement to the Federal Antimonopoly Service. Failure to obtain the required governmental approval prior to an acquisition would render the acquisition null and void. Because our parent company held its interest in PS Yandex.Money LLC at the time that that entity became a strategically important company, we believe that our ownership of that entity is in compliance with the Strategic Companies Law. In December 2012, we entered into an agreement pursuant to which Sberbank will acquire 75 percent (less one ruble) of our Yandex.Money business. Upon completion of this transaction, which is expected in the second quarter of 2013, we will enter into a joint venture arrangement with Sberbank in respect of the future operation of this business. Prior to completion of this transaction, Yandex N.V. is likely subject to the requirements of the Strategic Companies Law. Following completion of this transaction, we believe that these restrictions in respect of private non-Russian persons would no longer apply, but that the requirement to obtain prior approval from the Russian Government Committee would continue to be applicable to non-Russian state, governmental organizations, international organizations or entities controlled by a non-Russian government or international organization that would seek to acquire shares of Yandex N.V. or enter into an agreement that would establish direct or indirect control over Yandex N.V. and, therefore, Yandex.Money. There is also a risk that some of the rights granted to Yandex N.V. under the joint venture agreement with Sberbank could be interpreted by Russian authorities as establishing control by Yandex N.V. over Yandex.Money, which would require the Governmental Committee's preliminary consent for a broader number of transactions, including by private non-Russian persons. These restrictions on ownership of our shares would be in addition to the restrictions on ownership of our shares provided for in our articles of association. See "—Risks Related to Ownership of our Class A Shares—Our board of directors and our priority shareholder have the right to approve accumulations of stakes in our company or the sale of our principal Russian operating subsidiary, which may prevent or delay change-of-control transactions," "—Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of association and the shareholders agreement among our existing shareholders may prevent or delay change-of-control transactions." 29 Table of Contents Compliance with Russian regulations applicable to credit organizations may restrict our business operations and future plans. As PS Yandex.Money LLC is the holder of a participation interest constituting more than 20% of the charter capital of a non-banking credit organization, the preliminary consent of the Central Bank of Russia is required for the establishment of any direct or indirect control in respect of PS Yandex.Money LLC. Accordingly, any change of control in respect of Yandex N.V. may be considered as a change of indirect control in respect of PS Yandex.Money LLC, and there is a risk that the Central Bank of Russia may not grant the required consent for the indirect change of control and, consequently, prohibit or restrict the transaction giving rise to such indirect change of control. In December 2012, we entered into an agreement pursuant to which Sberbank will acquire 75 percent (less one ruble) of our Yandex.Money business. Upon completion of this transaction, which is expected in the second quarter of 2013, we will enter into a joint venture arrangement with Sberbank in respect of the future operation of this business. Following this transaction, however, there is a risk that a change of control in respect of Yandex N.V. would still require preliminary consent of the Central Bank of Russia, as Yandex N.V. could be considered to indirectly hold more than 20% of the voting power of the non-banking credit organization Most of the contractual obligations of PS Yandex.Money have been transferred to its recently formed non-banking credit organization subsidiary. However, if not all contractual obligations were successfully transferred from PS Yandex.Money LLC, there a risk that PS Yandex.Money LLC could be found not to be in compliance with the current legislation. Businesses in Russia can be subject to aggressive actions by financial groups seeking to obtain control through the exercise of economic or political influence or government connections. Well-funded, well-connected financial groups and so-called "oligarchs" have, from time to time, sought to obtain operational control and/or controlling or minority interests in attractive businesses in Russia by means that have been perceived as relying on economic or political influence or government connections. We may be subject to such efforts in the future and, depending on the political influence of the parties involved, our ability to thwart such efforts may be limited. Civil or military conflicts or material disruptions in the political relations between Russia and the other countries of the CIS may adversely affect investments in Russia, which may cause the market price of our Class A shares to decline. Political, ethnic, religious, historical and other differences have, on occasion, given rise to tensions and, in certain cases, military conflict between Russia and other countries of the CIS, and in regions of the Russian Federation, such as Chechnya. Moscow experienced terrorist attacks in 2010 and early 2011, for example, that were perceived as being politically motivated. In addition, the relationship between Russia and Ukraine has experienced extended periods of strain. Political tensions, military conflicts or other material disruptions in Russia or between Russia and other CIS countries can adversely affect prices of shares of companies operating in Russia and, as a result, may cause the market price of our Class A shares to decline. The Russian banking and financial system remains less developed than those in some more developed markets, and a banking crisis could place liquidity constraints on our business and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Russia's banking and other financial systems are less well developed and regulated than those of some more developed markets, and Russian legislation relating to banks and bank accounts is subject to varying interpretations and inconsistent application. Russian banks generally do not meet 30 Table of Contents international banking standards, and the transparency of the Russian banking sector lags behind international norms. As a result, the banking sector remains subject to periodic instability. Another banking crisis, or the bankruptcy or insolvency of banks through which we receive or with which we hold funds, may result in the loss of our deposits or adversely affect our ability to complete banking transactions in Russia, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our counterparties provide limited transparency in their operations, which could subject us to greater scrutiny and potential claims from government authorities. We do business with a number of companies, especially small companies, that do not always operate in a fully transparent manner and that may engage in aggressive or otherwise questionable practices with respect to tax obligations or compliance with other legal requirements. We have on occasion been approached by government authorities regarding potential tax claims or other compliance matters in connection with such transactions. As a larger and more transparent company with greater resources than such counterparties, governmental authorities may seek to collect taxes and/or penalties from us in relation to such transactions on the basis that we had knowledge of or aided such practices even when we did not. Changes in the Russian tax system or unpredictable or unforeseen application of existing rules may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There have been significant changes to the Russian taxation system in recent years as the authorities have gradually replaced legislation regulating the application of major taxes such as corporate income tax, VAT, corporate property tax and other taxes with new chapters of the Tax Code of the Russian Federation. Russian tax authorities have also been aggressive in their interpretation of tax laws and their many ambiguities, as well as in their enforcement and collection activities. Technical violations of contradictory laws and regulations, many of which are relatively new and have not been subject to extensive application or interpretation, can lead to penalties. High-profile companies can be particularly vulnerable to aggressive application of unclear requirements. Many companies must negotiate their tax bills with tax inspectors who may demand higher taxes than applicable law appears to provide. Our tax liability may become greater than the estimated amount that we have expensed to date and paid or accrued on our balance sheets. Any additional tax liability, as well as any unforeseen changes in Russian tax laws, could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations, financial condition or cash flows in a particular period. The tax environment in Russia historically has been complicated by contradictions in Russian tax law. For example, tax laws are unclear with respect to the deductibility of certain expenses and, at times, we may have taken a position that may be considered aggressive by tax authorities, but that we consider to be in compliance with current law. This uncertainty could result in a greater than expected tax burden and potentially exposes us to significant fines and penalties and enforcement measures, despite our best efforts at compliance. Generally, taxpayers are subject to inspection of their activities for a period of three calendar years immediately preceding the year in which an audit is carried out. Tax audits are routinely undertaken at least every two years. A tax audit of our principal Russian subsidiary for 2008 and 2009 was completed in 2011. The Russian tax system imposes additional burdens and costs on our operations in Russia, and complicates our tax planning and related business decisions. These factors raise the risk of a sudden imposition of arbitrary or onerous taxes on our operations in Russia or fines, penalties and enforcement measures. This may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Taxes payable on dividends from our Russian operating subsidiaries to our parent company might not benefit from relief under the Netherlands-Russia tax treaty. In accordance with Russian legislation, dividends paid by a Russian entity to a nonresident shareholder that is a legal entity are subject to Russian withholding tax at the rate of 15%. The Netherlands-Russia tax treaty generally reduces that rate to 5% for corporate shareholders that are tax resident in the Netherlands, provided that they do not have a permanent establishment in Russia and that certain other conditions, which we believe we satisfy, are met. Yandex N.V. is incorporated in the Netherlands and our principal operating subsidiaries are incorporated in Russia. Our management seeks to ensure that we conduct our affairs in such a manner that our parent company is not regarded as tax resident in any jurisdiction other than the Netherlands and, in particular, is not deemed to be a tax resident of, or to have a permanent establishment in, Russia. Thus, dividends paid from our Russian operating subsidiaries to our parent company should generally be subject to Russian withholding tax at a 5% rate. If our parent company were not treated as a Dutch resident for tax purposes or if it were deemed to have a permanent establishment in Russia, or if the Russian tax authorities were to determine that other conditions for the application of the 5% rate are not met, dividends paid from our Russian operating subsidiaries to our parent company would be subject to Russian withholding tax at the rate of 15%. Prior to our corporate reorganization in 2007, our parent company was incorporated in Cyprus and dividends were paid to that company in reliance on similar provisions under the Cyprus-Russia tax treaty. Our Russian operating subsidiaries have paid dividends to our parent company in reliance on the provisions of both the Netherlands-Russia tax treaty and the Cyprus-Russia tax treaty. Russian tax rules, however, are characterized by significant ambiguities and limited interpretive guidance and are subject to change, and we can provide no assurance that dividend withholding tax relief may not be challenged by the Russian tax authorities based on the grounds mentioned above. Furthermore, Russian tax rules regarding residency are currently under review and may change, thus triggering changes in taxation of dividends from our Russian subsidiaries to our parent company in the future. We may be required to record a significant deferred tax liability if we are unable to reinvest our earnings in Russia. Our principal Russian operating subsidiary has significant accumulated earnings that have not been distributed to our Dutch parent company. Our current policy is to retain earnings at the level of our principal subsidiary for investment in Russia, and we did not pay any inter-company dividends in 2011 or 2012. We currently deem any earnings to be permanently reinvested by our principal Russian operating subsidiary outside of the Netherlands and, accordingly, we have not recorded a deferred tax liability on these unremitted earnings. If circumstances change and we are unable to reinvest in that subsidiary's current operations or acquire suitable businesses in Russia, U.S. GAAP would require us to record a deferred tax liability representing the dividend withholding taxes that we would be required to pay if this subsidiary were to pay these unremitted accumulated earnings to our Dutch parent company as a dividend, even if such dividends were not actually declared and paid. As of December 31, 2012, the cumulative amount of unremitted earnings in respect of which dividend withholding taxes have not been provided is RUR 22,538 million. The applicable withholding tax rate is 5% and the amount of the unrecognized deferred tax liability related to these unremitted earnings was RUR 1,127 million as of December 31, 2012. We expect the amount of unremitted earnings to grow as our principal Russian operating subsidiary continues to generate net income. If we were required to record a deferred tax liability on an amount subsequently made available for distribution it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 32 Table of Contents Ambiguities in Russian law regarding payments to individuals who are Yandex ad network partners may create employment-related tax obligations or require us to limit network partnership and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ambiguities in Russian law make it difficult to structure payments to third-party individuals without creating a deemed employer-employee relationship. Many of our Yandex ad network partners are individuals who own and operate their own websites. We have contractual relationships with third parties, including advertising agencies, who act as aggregators and that make payments to individual Yandex ad network partners for the fees to which they are entitled in connection with the ads we serve on their websites. In the event that an aggregator fails to make any required tax withholding or otherwise comply with applicable laws in respect of such payments, the authorities might seek to hold us liable. In addition, because of ambiguities in the law, a Russian court or agency might elect to disregard these aggregators and construe our indirect payments to any such individual as creating an employer-employee relationship between us and that individual, with associated tax obligations. If Russian law were interpreted in such a way, and if we were not able to develop a method of paying individual partners without triggering this law, we would most likely limit partnership in the Yandex ad network to legal entities and businesses to reduce our exposure to potential liability. This would result in fewer partners in the Yandex ad network, and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of our Class A Shares The price of our Class A shares has been and may continue to be volatile. Market fluctuations specific to high-growth technology companies may affect the performance of our Class A shares and could expose us to potential securities litigation, which could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. The market for technology and other growth companies has experienced severe price and volume fluctuations that have often been disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may impact the market price of our Class A shares regardless of our actual operating performance. The trading price of our Class A shares has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: •quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; •fluctuations in our share of the internet search market; •announcements of technological innovations or new services and media properties by us or our competitors; •the emergence of new advertising channels in which we are unable to compete effectively; •changes in governmental regulations; •disruption to our operations or those of our partners; •our ability to develop and launch new and enhanced services on a timely basis; •commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; •any major change in our directors or management; •changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; 33 Table of Contents •the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; or •general economic conditions and slow or negative growth or forecast growth of related markets. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in the price of our Class A shares may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, some of whom have been granted equity awards. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. The concentration of voting power with our principal shareholders, including our founders, directors and senior management, limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our Class B shares have ten votes per share and our Class A shares have one vote per share. As of March 8, 2013, our founders, directors and senior management (and their affiliates) together own 83.26% of our outstanding Class B shares and 9.81% of our outstanding Class A shares, representing in the aggregate 70.61% of the voting power of our outstanding shares. In particular, our two founders, Mr. Volozh and Mr. Segalovich, directly or indirectly control 40.2% of our outstanding Class B shares and 2.55% of our outstanding Class A shares representing 33.7% of the voting power of our outstanding shares. For the foreseeable future, therefore, our founders, directors, senior management and their affiliates will have significant influence over the management and affairs of our company and over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, the amendment of our articles of association and significant corporate transactions, such as a sale of our company or its assets. Because of this multiple class structure, these persons will continue to exert significant control over all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval even if they come to own fewer than 50% of our outstanding shares by number. In addition, our principal shareholders are parties to a shareholders agreement that, among other things, requires them to vote to elect those directors nominated by our board of directors for election or re-election, and limits their ability to vote in favor of amendments of the anti-takeover provisions of our articles of association. This concentrated control limits your ability to influence decisions on corporate matters. We may take actions that our public shareholders do not view as beneficial or as maximizing value for them. As a result, the market price of our Class A shares may be adversely affected. Our board of directors and our priority shareholder have the right to approve accumulations of stakes in our company or the sale of our principal Russian operating subsidiary, which may prevent or delay change-of-control transactions. Our board of directors has the right, acting by simple majority, to approve the accumulation by a party, group of related parties or parties acting in concert of the legal or beneficial ownership of shares representing 25% or more, in number or voting power, of our outstanding Class A and Class B shares (taken together). If our board grants its approval of such share accumulation, the matter is then submitted to the holder of our priority share, which has a further right of approval of such accumulation of shares. In addition, any decision by our board of directors to transfer all or substantially all of our assets to one or more third parties, including the sale of our principal Russian operating subsidiary, is subject to the prior approval of the priority shareholder. Any holding, transfer or acquisition by a party, group of related parties or parties acting in concert of the legal or beneficial ownership of Class B shares representing 25% or more, in number or by voting power, of our outstanding Class A and Class B shares (taken together), without the prior 34 Table of Contents approval of our board of directors, first, and then the priority shareholder, will be null and void. The acquisition of shares in excess of the thresholds permitted by our articles of association will be subject to certain notification requirements set forth in our articles of association. Failure to comply with those terms would render the transfer of such shares null and void. In addition, the holders of such shares would not be entitled to the dividend or voting rights attached to their excess shares. The rights of our board of directors and our priority shareholder to approve accumulations of stakes in our company may prevent or delay change-of-control transactions. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of association and the shareholders agreement among our principal shareholders may prevent or delay change-of-control transactions. In addition to the rights of our board and of the priority shareholder to approve the accumulation of stakes of 25% or more, as described above, our multiple class share structure may discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change-of-control transaction that our public shareholders may view as beneficial. Our articles of association also contain additional provisions that may have the effect of making a takeover of our company more difficult or less attractive, including: •the staggered three-year terms of our directors, as a result of which only one-third of our directors are subject to election in any one year; •a provision that our directors may only be removed by a two-thirds majority of votes cast representing at least 50% of our outstanding share capital; •the authorization of a class of preference shares that may be issued by our board of directors in such a manner as to dilute the interest of any potential acquirer; •requirements that certain matters, including an amendment of our articles of association, may only be brought to our shareholders for a vote upon a proposal by our board of directors; •minimum shareholding thresholds, based on par value, for shareholders to call general meetings of our shareholders or to add items to the agenda for those meetings, which will be very difficult for Class A shareholders to meet given our multiple class share structure; and •supermajority requirements for shareholder approval of certain significant corporate actions, including the legal merger or demerger of our company and the amendment of our articles of association. In addition, the provisions of the shareholders agreement described above could have the effect of preventing or delaying a takeover of our company. The Dutch public offer rules, which impose substantive and procedural requirements in connection with the attempted takeover of a Dutch public company, only apply in the case of Dutch target companies that have shares listed on a regulated market within the European Union. We have not listed our shares, and do not expect to list our shares, on a regulated market within the European Union, and therefore these rules do not apply to any public offer for our Class A shares. Our Class A shares may not be traded on any exchange outside the United States. Our Class A shares are listed only in the United States on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and we have no plans to list our Class A shares in any other jurisdiction. As a result, a holder of our Class A shares outside the United States may not be able to effect transactions in our Class A shares as readily as the holder may if our securities were listed on an exchange in that holder's home jurisdiction. 35 Table of Contents We rely on NASDAQ Stock Market rules that permit us to comply with applicable Dutch corporate governance practices, rather than the corresponding domestic U.S. corporate governance practices, and therefore your rights as a shareholder differ from the rights you would have as a shareholder of a domestic U.S. issuer. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we are permitted in certain cases to follow Dutch corporate governance practices instead of the corresponding requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. We follow Dutch corporate governance practices with regard to the quorum requirements applicable to meetings of shareholders and the provision of proxy statements for general meetings of shareholders. In accordance with Dutch law and generally accepted business practices, our articles of association do not provide quorum requirements generally applicable to general meetings of shareholders. Although we do intend to provide shareholders with an agenda and other relevant documents for the general meeting of shareholders, Dutch law does not have a regulatory regime for the solicitation of proxies and the solicitation of proxies is not a generally accepted business practice in the Netherlands. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ's corporate governance rules. We do not comply with all the provisions of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. This may affect your rights as a shareholder. As a Dutch company we are subject to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, or DCGC. The DCGC contains both principles and best practice provisions for management boards, supervisory boards, shareholders and general meetings of shareholders, financial reporting, auditors, disclosure, compliance and enforcement standards. The DCGC applies to all Dutch companies listed on a government-recognized stock exchange, whether in the Netherlands or elsewhere, including the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The principles and best practice provisions apply to the board (in relation to role and composition, conflicts of interest and independency requirements, board committees and remuneration), shareholders and the general meeting of shareholders (for example, regarding anti-takeover protection and obligations of the company to provide information to its shareholders) and financial reporting (such as external auditor and internal audit requirements). The DCGC requires that companies either "comply or explain" any noncompliance and, in light of our compliance with NASDAQ requirements and as permitted by the DCGC, we have elected not to comply with all of the provisions of the DCGC. This may affect your rights as a shareholder and you may not have the same level of protection as a shareholder in a Dutch company that fully complies with the DCGC. Risks for U.S. Holders We cannot assure you that we will not be classified as a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year, which may result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequence to U.S. holders. Based on certain management estimates with respect to our gross income and average value of our gross assets and on the nature of our business, we believe that we were not a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the 2012 tax year, and do not expect to be a PFIC in the foreseeable future. However, because our PFIC status for any taxable year will depend on the composition of our income and assets and the value of our assets in such year, and because this is a factual determination made annually after the end of each taxable year and there are uncertainties in the application of the rules, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. In particular, the value of our assets may be determined in large part by reference to the market price of our Class A shares, which have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, significantly. If we were to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder held our Class A shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. holder. See "Taxation—Taxation in the United States—U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders—Passive foreign investment company considerations." 36 Table of Contents Any U.S. or other foreign judgments you may obtain against us may be difficult to enforce against us in Russia or the Netherlands. We have only very limited operations in the United States, most of our assets are located in Russia, our company is incorporated in the Netherlands, and most of our directors and senior management are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult to serve process on us or these persons within the United States. Although arbitration awards are generally enforceable in Russia and the Netherlands, and Russian courts may elect to enforce foreign court judgments as a matter of international reciprocity and judicial comity, you should note that judgments obtained in the United States or in other foreign courts, including those with respect to U.S. federal securities law claims, may not be enforceable in Russia or the Netherlands. There is no mutual recognition treaty between the United States and the Russian Federation or the Netherlands, and no Russian federal law or Dutch law provides for the recognition and enforcement of foreign court judgments. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce any U.S. or other foreign court judgment obtained against our company, any of our operating subsidiaries or any of our directors in Russia or the Netherlands. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Dutch law and differ in some important respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Netherlands. The responsibilities of members of our board of directors under Dutch law are different than under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our board of directors is required by Dutch law to consider the interests of Yandex, its shareholders, its employees and other stakeholders and not only those of our shareholders. Also, as a Dutch company, we are not required to solicit proxies or prepare proxy statements for general meetings of shareholders. In addition, the rights of our shareholders are governed by Dutch law and our articles of association, and differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. For example, Dutch law does not grant appraisal rights to a company's shareholders who wish to challenge the consideration to be paid upon a merger or consolidation of the company. 