Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. These risk factors represent what we believe to be the known material risk factors with respect to us and our business. Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to these risks and uncertainties, any of which could cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. 14 Table of Contents Risks Inherent in Our Business and Industry We are subject to extensive laws and regulations, which may increase our cost of doing business and have an adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. Our operations are subject to increasingly strict regulation by federal, state and local authorities with respect to protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those legal requirements pursuant to the Clean Air Act and other laws that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the protection of groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of properties after mining or drilling is completed, the installation of various safety equipment in our facilities, control of surface subsidence from underground mining protection of employee health and safety. Complying with these requirements, including the terms of our permits, can be costly and time-consuming, and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. Failure to comply with these regulations or permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could limit or materially increase the cost of our operations. For instance, as more fully discussed herein, our Haverhill, Granite City and Indiana Harbor cokemaking facilities have been issued Notices of Violation for alleged violations of air emission limits. The resolution of Notices of Violation at our Haverhill and Granite City cokemaking facilities will cause us to undertake capital projects and will require payment of a penalty. We may not have been, or may not be, at all times, in complete compliance with all of these requirements, and we may incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements, or in connection with remediation at sites we own, or third-party sites where it has been alleged that we have liability, in excess of the amounts we have accrued. In addition, these requirements are complex, change frequently and have become more stringent over time. These requirements may change in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business. For a description of certain environmental laws and matters applicable to us, see “Item 1. Business—Legal and Regulatory Requirements.” In addition, our facilities are currently subject to GHG regulations, including the obligation to report annual GHG emissions for the preceding year. Any modifications to our facilities could be subject to the EPA’s Tailoring Rule, which could place additional permitting and other implementation requirements on GHG emissions. The U.S. Congress has considered “cap and trade” legislation that would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of GHGs and require most sources of GHGs to obtain greenhouse gas emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions of GHGs. Additional climate change regulation could result in increased costs to operate or maintain our facilities, increased capital expenditures to install new emission controls on our facilities, increased costs to administer and manage any potential GHG emissions regulations or carbon trading or tax programs, and reduce demand for our coke. Any such federal or state regulations requiring us, or our customers, to employ expensive technology to capture and sequester carbon dioxide could likewise adversely affect our future revenues, or profitability. The PPACA, which was implemented in 2010, amended previous legislation related to coal workers’ black lung obligations. PPACA provides for the automatic extension of awarded lifetime benefits to surviving spouses and changes the legal criteria used to assess and award claims. Our obligation related to black lung benefits is estimated based on various assumptions, including actuarial estimates, discount rates, and changes in health care costs. Equipment upgrades, equipment failures and deterioration of assets may lead to production curtailments, shutdowns or additional expenditures. Our cokemaking and coal mining operations depend upon critical pieces of equipment that occasionally may be out of service for scheduled upgrades or maintenance or as a result of unanticipated failures. Our facilities are subject to equipment failures and the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, accidents 15 Table of Contents or violent weather conditions. As a result, we may experience interruptions in our processing and production capabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, assets critical to the operations of our cokemaking and coal mining operations, including our cokemaking facilities and equipment and our coal mines, may deteriorate or become depleted materially sooner than we currently estimate. Such deterioration of assets may result in additional maintenance spending or additional capital expenditures. If these assets do not generate the amount of future cash flows that we expect, and we are not able to procure replacement assets in an economically feasible manner, our future results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are also required to perform impairment tests on our assets whenever events or changes in circumstances lead to a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows that would indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable or whenever management’s plans change with respect to those assets. If we are required to incur impairment charges in the future, our results of operations in the period taken could be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to obtain, maintain or renew permits or leases necessary for our operations, which could materially reduce our production, cash flow or profitability. Our cokemaking facilities and coal mining operations require us to obtain a number of permits that impose strict regulations on various environmental and operational matters in connection with cokemaking and coal mining. These include permits used by various federal, state and local agencies and regulatory bodies. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex, change frequently, and are often subject to discretionary interpretations by our regulators, all of which may make compliance more difficult or impractical, and may possibly preclude the continuance of ongoing operations or the development of future cokemaking facilities or coal mines. The public, including non-governmental organizations, environmental groups and individuals, have certain statutory rights to comment upon and submit objections to requested permits and environmental impact statements prepared in connection with applicable regulatory processes, and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including bringing citizen’s lawsuits to challenge the issuance of permits, the validity of environmental impact statements or performance of cokemaking or coal mining activities. If any permits or leases are not issued or renewed in a timely fashion or at all, or if permits issued or renewed are conditioned in a manner that restricts our ability to efficiently and economically conduct our cokemaking or coal mining operations, our cash flows or profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Our businesses are subject to inherent risks, some for which we maintain third-party insurance and some for which we self-insure. We may incur losses and be subject to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our businesses. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to renew our existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, certain environmental and pollution risks generally are not fully insurable. Even where insurance coverage applies, insurers may contest their obligations to make payments. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by losses and liabilities from un-insured or under-insured events, as well as by delays in the payment of insurance proceeds, or the failure by insurers to make payments. We also may incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from our operations. We must compensate employees for work-related injuries. If we do not make 16 Table of Contents adequate provision for our workers’ compensation liabilities, it could harm our future operating results. If we are pursued for these sanctions, costs and liabilities, our operations and our profitability could be adversely affected. Our operating results have been and may continue to be affected by fluctuations in our costs of production, and, if we cannot pass increases in our costs of production to our customers, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected. Over the course of the last two to three years, many of the components of our cost of produced coke and coal revenues, including cost of supplies, equipment and labor, have experienced significant price inflation, and such price inflation may continue in the future. Our coal mining operations, for example, require a reliable supply of mining and industrial equipment, replacement parts, fuel and steel-related products, including roof control and lubricants. The supplier base providing such mining materials and equipment has been relatively consistent in recent years, although there continues to be consolidation, resulting in a situation where purchases of certain underground mining equipment are concentrated in single suppliers. The price of such components is also highly volatile. Our profit margins may be reduced and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if the costs of production increase significantly and we cannot pass such increases in our costs of production to our customers. If we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations, we may be adversely affected. Union represented labor creates an increased risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs. We rely, at one or more of our facilities, on unionized labor, and there is always the possibility that the employing entity will be unable to reach agreement on terms and conditions of employment or renewal of a collective bargaining agreement. Any labor disputes, work stoppages, or increased labor costs could adversely affect operations, the stability of production and reduce our future revenues, or profitability. It is also possible that, in the future, additional employee groups may choose to be represented by a labor union. We have obligations for long-term employee plan benefits that may involve expenses that are greater than we have assumed. We are required to provide various long-term employee benefits to retired employees and current employees who will retire in the future. At December 31, 2012, these obligations included: • pension benefits of $37.5 million; and • postretirement medical and life insurance of $43.7 million. We have estimated certain of these unfunded obligations based on actuarial assumptions described in the notes to our financial statements. However, if our assumptions are inaccurate, we could be required to expend materially greater amounts than anticipated. Approximately 93 percent of the pension benefits were funded on an accounting basis at December 31, 2012, while the post-retirement medical and life insurance obligations are unfunded. If we are required to expend materially greater amounts than anticipated, it could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We currently are, and likely will be, subject to litigation, the disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. The nature of our operations exposes us to possible litigation claims in the future, including disputes relating to our operations and commercial and contractual arrangements. Although we make every effort to avoid litigation, these matters are not totally within our control. We will contest these matters vigorously and have made insurance claims where appropriate, but because of the uncertain nature of litigation and coverage decisions, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. Litigation is very costly, and the costs associated with prosecuting and defending litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and 17 Table of Contents profitability. In addition, our profitability or cash flow in a particular period could be affected by an adverse ruling in any litigation currently pending in the courts or by litigation that may be filed against us in the future. We are also subject to significant environmental and other government regulation, which sometimes results in various administrative proceedings. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the senior notes and the credit facilities. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2012, our total debt was approximately $723.4 million, excluding $150.0 million of substantially unused commitments under the credit facilities. Additionally, the credit agreement provides for up to $75.0 million in uncommitted incremental facilities that are available subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, $30.0 million of which was outstanding as of December 31, 2012. Subject to the limits contained in the credit agreement that governs the credit facilities (which term includes our new revolving, term loan and incremental facilities), the Indenture that governs the notes and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the notes and our other debt; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under the credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other, less leveraged competitors; and • increasing our cost of borrowing. In addition, the indenture that governs the notes and the credit agreement governing our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under the credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. We have entered into and may in the future enter into additional interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. However, we may decide not to maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. 18 Table of Contents Unfavorable economic conditions resulting from the ongoing U.S. and worldwide financial and credit crisis, and potential further deteriorating conditions in the U. S. and globally, may cause a reduction in the demand for our products, which could adversely affect our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. Continued volatility and disruption in worldwide capital and credit markets and potential further deteriorating conditions in the United States and globally could cause reduced demand for our products. Additionally, unfavorable economic conditions, including the reduced availability of credit, may cause a reduction in the demand for steel products, which, in turn, could adversely affect demand for our products. Such conditions could have an adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Cokemaking Business We are exposed to the credit risk, and certain other risks, of our major customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our major customers, or the failure of our customers to continue to purchase coke from us at similar prices under similar arrangements, may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. We are subject to the credit risk of our major customers. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer credit risk. If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or unanticipated deterioration of their creditworthiness, any resulting increase in nonpayment or nonperformance by them could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers, whose operations are concentrated in a single industry, the steel industry. We sell coke to these customers pursuant to long-term take-or-pay agreements that require that our customers either purchase all of our coke production or a specified tonnage maximum greater than our stated capacity, as applicable, or pay the contract price for any such coke they elect not to accept. Our customers experience significant fluctuations in demand for steel products because of economic conditions, consumer demand, raw material and energy costs and decisions by the U.S. federal and state governments to fund or not fund infrastructure projects, such as highways, bridges, schools, energy plants, railroads and transportation facilities. During periods of weak demand for steel, our customers may experience significant reductions in their operations, or substantial declines in the prices of the steel they sell. These and other factors may lead some customers to seek renegotiation or cancellation of their existing long-term coke purchase commitments to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. If a substantial portion of our agreements to supply coke and electricity are modified or terminated, our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are not able to replace such agreements, or if we are not able to enter into new agreements at the same level of profitability. We sell substantially all of our coke and electricity under long-term agreements. If a substantial portion of these agreements are modified or terminated or if force majeure is exercised, our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are not able to replace such agreements, or if we are not able to enter into new agreements at the same level of profitability. The profitability of our long-term coke and energy sales agreements depends on a variety of factors that vary from agreement to agreement and fluctuate during the agreement term. We may not be able to obtain long-term agreements at favorable prices, compared either to market conditions or to our cost structure. Price changes provided in long-term supply agreements may not reflect actual increases in production costs. As a result, such cost increases may reduce profit margins on our long-term coke and energy sales agreements. In addition, contractual provisions for adjustment or renegotiation of prices and other provisions may increase our exposure to short-term price volatility. From time to time, we discuss the extension of existing agreements and enter into new long-term agreements for the supply of coke and energy to our customers, but these negotiations may not be successful and 19 Table of Contents these customers may not continue to purchase coke or electricity from us under long-term agreements. If any one or more of these customers were to significantly reduce their purchases of coke or electricity from us, or if we were unable to sell coke or electricity to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our cash flows, financial position or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Further, because of certain technological design constraints, we do not have the ability to shut down our cokemaking operations if we do not have adequate customer demand. If a customer refuses to take or pay for our coke, we must continuously operate our coke ovens even though we may not be able to sell our coke immediately and may incur significant additional costs for natural gas to maintain the temperature inside our coke oven batteries, which may have a material and adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. The financial performance of our cokemaking business is substantially dependent upon three customers in the steel industry, and any failure by them to perform under their contracts with us could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Substantially all of our domestic coke sales are currently made under long-term contracts with ArcelorMittal, U.S. Steel and AK Steel. For the year ended December 31, 2012, ArcelorMittal, AK Steel and U.S. Steel accounted for approximately 54 percent, 28 percent and 16 percent of our sales and other operating revenue, respectively. We expect these three customers to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. If any one or more of these customers were to significantly reduce its purchases of coke from us, or default on their agreements with us, or fail to renew or terminate its agreements with us, or if we were unable to sell coke to any one or more of these customers on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our cash flows, financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The coke sales agreement and the energy sales agreement with AK Steel at our Haverhill facility are subject to early termination under certain circumstances and any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and therefore our ability to distribute cash to unitholders. The coke sales agreement and the energy sales agreement with AK Steel at Haverhill 2, or the Haverhill AK Steel Contracts, are subject to early termination by AK Steel under certain circumstances and any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our business. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the Haverhill AK Steel Contracts accounted for approximately $222.0 million, or 12 percent, of our total revenues. The Haverhill coke sales agreement with AK Steel expires on January 1, 2022, with two automatic, successive five-year renewal periods. The Haverhill energy sales agreement with AK Steel runs concurrently with the term of the coke sales agreement, including any renewals, and automatically terminates upon the termination of the related coke sales agreement. The coke sales agreement may be terminated by AK Steel at any time on or after January 1, 2014 upon two years prior written notice if AK Steel (i) permanently shuts down iron production operations at its steel plant works in Ashland, Kentucky, or the Ashland Plant; and (ii) has not acquired or begun construction of a new blast furnace in the United States to replace, in whole or in part, the Ashland Plant’s iron production capacity. If such termination occurs at any time prior to January 1, 2018, AK Steel will be required to pay a significant termination fee. If AK Steel were to terminate the Haverhill AK Steel Contracts, we may be unable to enter into similar long-term contracts with replacement customers for all or any portion of the coke previously purchased by AK Steel. Similarly, we may be forced to sell some or all of the previously contracted coke in the spot market, which could be at prices lower than we have currently contracted for and could subject us to significant price volatility. If AK Steel elects to terminate the Haverhill AK Steel Contracts, our cash flows, financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully implement our international growth strategy and develop, design, construct, start up and operate new, or make investments in existing, cokemaking facilities outside of North America. A central element of our growth strategy involves the international expansion of our business. We expanded our cokemaking business internationally in 2007 through our development and operation of our customer’s cokemaking facility in Vitória, Brazil. We are currently exploring opportunities with steel companies for developing new cokemaking facilities in foreign countries, which could be either wholly owned or developed through other business structures. We also are exploring opportunities with respect to making investments in entities that own and operate, or forming a joint venture or similar arrangement with respect to assets comprising, existing cokemaking facilities in foreign countries, principally in India. For example, on November 20, 2012, we announced that we had entered into agreements to form a cokemaking joint venture with VISA Steel Limited (“VISA Steel”) in India. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2013, subject to customary conditions. When the VISA SunCoke joint venture transaction is closed, and in the event we make additional investments in entities that own and operate existing cokemaking facilities, or form joint ventures or other similar arrangements with respect to assets comprising an existing cokemaking facility, we will and would share ownership and management with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, or resources as we do. Such arrangements are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Making an investment in an entity that owns and operates an existing cokemaking facility or operating a business as a joint venture will require additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. We will be required to pay close attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the existing entity or joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be materially adversely affected. The benefits from a successful investment in an existing entity or joint venture will be shared among the co-owners, so that we will not receive all the benefits from a successful investment. Our ability to expand internationally by entering into additional arrangements in non-U.S. markets and to successfully implement our international growth strategy is subject to a variety of risks, including, but not limited to: • certain acquisition and investment opportunities may not result in the consummation of a transaction; • we may not be able to obtain acceptable terms for any required financing for any such acquisition or investment that arises; • incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of investments or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of our investments; • failing to successfully and timely integrate the operations or management of any investments in non-U.S. markets and the risk of diverting management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities; • the possibility of negative developments in the demand for steel in non-U.S. markets; • the difficulty or costs associated with complying with industry guidelines or laws or regulations of non-U.S. markets; • the possibility that language and other cultural differences may inhibit our development and operations efforts and create internal communication problems among our U.S. and non-U.S. teams, increasing the difficulty of managing multiple, remote locations performing various development and quality assurance projects; • compliance with non-U.S. laws that may be unfamiliar to our management and employees; • currency risk due to the fact that our revenues and expenses for our international operations may be denominated in different currencies; and 21 Table of Contents • economic or political instability or legal restrictions could affect our ability to efficiently invest and repatriate our capital from the local country. If we are not able to successfully execute our plans for international development and expansion of our cokemaking operations, as a result of unfavorable market conditions in the steel industry or otherwise, our future revenues and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. The failure to consummate or integrate business relationships or other transactions with respect to existing cokemaking facilities in the United States and Canada in a timely and cost-effective manner, and operational challenges associated with operating any such cokemaking facility, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are exploring opportunities to enter into business relationships or other transactions with respect to existing cokemaking facilities in order to opportunistically capture market share in the United States and Canada. We believe that such opportunities may arise from time to time, and any such transaction could be significant. Any transaction could involve the payment by us of a substantial amount of cash, the incurrence of a substantial amount of debt or the issuance of a substantial amount of equity. Certain opportunities may not result in the consummation of a transaction. In addition, we may not be able to obtain acceptable terms for the required financing for any such transaction that arises. Our future business relationships or other transactions with respect to existing cokemaking facilities could present a number of risks, including the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of such operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of entering into a transaction with respect to such operations or assets, the risk of failing to successfully and timely integrate the operations or management of any such operations or assets and the risk of diverting management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities. If we fail to consummate and integrate any transaction in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, existing cokemaking facilities in the United States and Canada typically utilize by-product cokemaking. By-product cokemaking seeks to recover the coal’s volatile components liberated during the cokemaking process and re-purpose these components into by-products for other uses. Our cokemaking ovens utilize heat recovery technology, which is fundamentally different from the by-product method. If we are not able to successfully operate any by-product cokemaking facility that we may enter into a business relationship or other transaction with, as a result of challenges associated with operating a facility utilizing a different technology or otherwise, our future revenues and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Excess capacity in the global steel industry, including in China, may weaken demand for steel produced by our U.S. steel industry customers, which, in turn, may reduce demand for our coke. In some countries, such as China, steelmaking capacity exceeds demand for steel products. Rather than reducing employment by matching production capacity to consumption, steel manufacturers in these countries (often with local government assistance or subsidies in various forms) may export steel at prices that are significantly below their home market prices and that may not reflect their costs of production or capital. The availability of this steel at such prices may negatively affect our steelmaking customers, who may not be able to increase and may have to decrease, the prices that they charge for steel as the supply of steel increases. Our customers may also reduce their steel output in response to this increased supply, which would correspondingly reduce their demand for coke and make it more likely that they may seek to renegotiate their contracts with us or fail to pay for the coke they are required to take under our contracts. As a result, the profitability and financial position of our steelmaking customers may be adversely affected, which in turn, could adversely affect the certainty of our long-term relationships with those customers and our own results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Increased exports of coke from China related to reduced export duties and export quotas may weaken our customers’ demand for coke capacity. An appeals panel of the World Trade Organization (the “WTO”) ruled in early 2012 that China’s export duties and export quotas on certain raw materials, including coke, violated global trade rules. The WTO’s dispute-settlement body recently adopted the appeals panel report. Consequently, China has eliminated the export tariff effective January 1, 2013 which may reduce prices for Chinese coke in the international market and result in increased exports of coke from China. Increased exports of coke from China could reduce our customers’ demand for coke capacity, which would limit our ability to construct a potential new plant in the United States or Canada and to enter into new, or renew existing, commercial arrangements with our customers and materially and adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. We face increasing competition both from alternative steelmaking and cokemaking technologies that have the potential to reduce or completely eliminate the use of coke, which may reduce the demand for the coke we produce and which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Historically, coke has been used as a main input in the production of steel in blast furnaces. However, some blast furnace operators have reduced the amount of coke per ton of hot metal through alternative injectants, such as natural gas and pulverized coal injectant, and the use of these coke substitutes could increase in the future, particularly in light of current low natural gas prices. Many steelmakers also are exploring alternatives to blast furnace technology that require less or no use of coke. For example, electric arc furnace technology is a commercially proven process widely used in the United States. As these alternative processes for production of steel become more widespread, the demand for coke, including the coke we produce, may be significantly reduced, and this reduction could have a material and adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We also face competition from alternative cokemaking technologies, including both by-product and heat recovery technologies. As these technologies improve and as new technologies are developed, we anticipate that competition in the cokemaking industry will intensify. Such increased competition may adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. Certain provisions in our long-term coke agreements may result in economic penalties to us, or may result in termination of our coke sales agreements for failure to meet minimum volume requirements or other required specifications, and certain provisions in these agreements and our energy sales agreements may permit our customers to suspend performance. All of our coke sales agreements and our steam supply and purchase agreements contain provisions requiring us to supply minimum volumes of our products to our customers. To the extent we do not meet these minimum volumes, we are generally required under the terms of our coke sales agreements to procure replacement supply to our customers at the applicable contract price or potentially be subject to cover damages for any shortfall. If future shortfalls occur, we will work with our customer to identify possible other supply sources while we implement operating improvements at the facility, but we may not be successful in identifying alternative supplies and may be subject to paying the contract price for any shortfall or to cover damages, either of which could adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. Our coke sales agreements also contain provisions requiring us to deliver coke that meets certain quality thresholds. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of our agreements. Our coke and energy sales agreements contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by our customers for the duration of specified events beyond the control of our customers. Declaration of force majeure, coupled with a lengthy suspension of performance under one or more coke or energy sales agreements, may seriously and adversely affect our cash flows, financial position and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents To the extent we do not meet coal-to-coke yield standards in our coke sales agreements, we are responsible for the cost of the excess coal used in the cokemaking process, which could adversely impact our results of operations and profitability. Our ability to pass through our coal costs to our customers under our coke sales agreements is generally subject to our ability to meet some form of coal-to-coke yield standard. To the extent that we do not meet the yield standard in the contract, we are responsible for the cost of the excess coal used in the cokemaking process. We may not be able to meet the yield standards at all times, and as a result we may suffer lower margins on our coke sales and our results of operations and profitability could be adversely affected. Failure to maintain effective quality control systems at our cokemaking facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The quality of our coke is critical to the success of our business. For instance, our coke sales agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coke that meets certain quality thresholds. If our coke fails to meet such specifications, we could be subject to significant contractual damages or contract terminations, and our sales could be negatively affected. The quality of our coke depends significantly on the effectiveness of our quality control systems, which, in turn, depends on a number of factors, including the design of our quality control systems, our quality-training program and our ability to ensure that our employees adhere to our quality control policies and guidelines. Any significant failure or deterioration of our quality control systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Disruptions to our supply of coal and coal blending services may reduce the amount of coke we produce and deliver and, if we are not able to cover the shortfall in coal supply or obtain replacement blending services from other providers, our results of operations and profitability could be adversely affected. Most of the metallurgical coal used to produce coke at our cokemaking facilities, other than our Jewell facility, is purchased from third parties under one- to two-year contracts. We cannot assure that there will continue to be an ample supply of metallurgical coal available or that we will be able to supply these facilities without any significant disruption in coke production, as economic, environmental, and other conditions outside of our control may reduce our ability to source sufficient amounts of coal for our forecasted operational needs. The failure of our coal suppliers to meet their supply commitments could materially and adversely impact our results of operations if we are not able to make up the shortfalls resulting from such supply failures through purchases of coal from other sources. Other than at our Jewell cokemaking facility, we rely on third parties to blend coals that we have purchased into coal blends that we use to produce coke. We have entered into long-term agreements with coal blending service providers that are co-terminous with our coke sales agreements. Generally, we store an inventory of blended coal at or near our cokemaking facilities to cover approximately 15 to 30 days of coke production. There are limited alternative providers of coal blending services and disruptions from our current service providers could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, if our rail transportation agreements are terminated, we may have to pay higher rates to access rail lines or make alternative transportation arrangements. Limitations on the availability and reliability of transportation, and increases in transportation costs, particularly rail systems, could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain a supply of coal and deliver coke to our customers. Our ability to obtain coal depends primarily on third-party rail systems and to a lesser extent river barges. If we are unable to obtain rail or other transportation services, or are unable to do so on a cost-effective basis, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Alternative transportation and delivery systems are generally inadequate and not suitable to handle the quantity of our shipments or to ensure timely delivery. The loss of 24 Table of Contents access to rail capacity could create temporary disruption until the access is restored, significantly impairing our ability to receive coal and resulting in materially decreased revenues. Our ability to open new cokemaking facilities may also be affected by the availability and cost of rail or other transportation systems available for servicing these facilities. Our coke production obligations at our Jewell cokemaking facility and one half of our Haverhill cokemaking facility require us to deliver coke to certain customers via railcar. We have entered into long-term rail transportation agreements to meet these obligations. Disruption of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, mechanical difficulties, train derailments, infrastructure damage, strikes, lock-outs, lack of fuel or maintenance items, fuel costs, transportation delays, accidents, terrorism, domestic catastrophe or other events could temporarily, or over the long-term impair, our ability to produce coke, and therefore, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Income from operation of the Vitória, Brazil cokemaking facility may be affected by global and regional economic and political factors and the policies and actions of the Brazilian government. The Vitória cokemaking facility is owned by a project company controlled by a Brazilian affiliate of ArcelorMittal. We earn income from the Vitória, Brazil operations through licensing and operating fees earned at the Brazilian cokemaking facility payable to us under long-term agreements with the project company and an annual preferred dividend from the project company guaranteed by the Brazilian affiliate of ArcelorMittal. These revenues depend on continuing operations and, in some cases, certain minimum production levels being achieved at the Vitória cokemaking facility. In the past, the Brazilian economy was characterized by frequent and occasionally extensive intervention by the Brazilian government and unstable economic cycles. The Brazilian government has changed in the past, and may change monetary, taxation, credit, tariff and other policies to influence Brazil’s economy in the future. If the operations at Vitória cokemaking facility are interrupted or if certain minimum production levels are not achieved, we will not be able to earn the same licensing and operating fees as we are currently earning, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Brazilian licensing agreement for certain of our Brazilian patents used at the Vitória cokemaking facility may terminate if we are not able to maintain or supplement the patents subject to the licensing agreement, which may have an adverse effect on our future revenues and profitability. We currently collect certain fees in connection with the licensing of certain of our Brazilian patents at the Vitória cokemaking facility pursuant to a Brazilian licensing agreement with a term that runs through 2023. The validity of these patents is being challenged in Brazil, and the patents will otherwise expire by May 2014. We have sixteen patent applications (one of which has been opposed by the party challenging our existing Brazilian patents) awaiting examination that, if approved, we expect will permit the Brazilian licensing agreement to continue through at least 2023. If the challenge to our existing Brazilian patents is successful, or if such Brazilian patents expire prior to a new Brazilian patent becoming subject to the Brazilian licensing agreement, and we no longer have any technology licensed under any applicable licensing agreement, we will no longer receive any licensing fees. The loss of these licensing fees would adversely affect our results of operations. We recorded licensing fees of $4.4 million, $5.2 million and $5.9 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Labor disputes with the unionized portion of our workforce could affect us adversely. As of December 31, 2012, we have approximately 1,214 employees in the United States. Approximately 312, or 26 percent, of our domestic employees, principally at our cokemaking operations, are currently represented by the United Steelworkers under various contracts. The labor agreement at our Haverhill facility was recently extended through October 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2012, we have approximately 249 employees at the cokemaking facility in Vitória, Brazil, all of whom are represented by a union under an agreement that expires on November 30, 2013. When these agreements expire or terminate, we may not be able 25 Table of Contents to negotiate the agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. If we are unable to negotiate a new collective bargaining agreement before the expiration date, our operations and our profitability could be adversely affected. A prolonged labor dispute, which could include a work stoppage, could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our customers’ orders and, as a result, adversely affect our production and profitability. Risks Related to Our Coal Mining Business Coal prices are volatile, and a substantial or extended decline in prices could adversely affect our profitability and the value of our coal reserves. Our profitability and the value of our coal reserves depend upon the prices we receive for our coal. The contract prices we may receive for coal in the future depend upon factors beyond our control, including: • the domestic and foreign demand and supply for metallurgical coal; • the quantity and quality of coal available from domestic and foreign competitors; • the demand for steel, which may lead to price fluctuations in the re-pricing of our metallurgical coal contracts; • competition within our industry; • adverse weather, climatic or other natural conditions, including natural disasters; • domestic and foreign economic conditions, including economic slowdowns; • legislative, regulatory and judicial developments, environmental regulatory changes or changes in energy policy and energy conservation measures that would adversely affect the coal industry, such as legislation limiting carbon emissions; and • the proximity, capacity and cost of transportation facilities. A substantial or extended decline in the prices we receive for our future coal sales could adversely affect our profitability and the value of our coal reserves. Extensive governmental regulations pertaining to employee health and safety and mandated benefits for retired coal miners impose significant costs on our mining operations, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The coal mining industry is subject to increasingly strict regulation by federal, state and local authorities with respect to matters such as employee health and safety and mandated benefits for retired coal miners. Compliance with these requirements imposes significant costs on us and can result in reduced productivity. Moreover, the possibility exists that new health and safety legislation and/or regulations and orders may be adopted that may materially and adversely affect our mining operations. We must compensate employees for work-related injuries. If we do not make adequate provisions for our workers’ compensation liabilities, it could harm our future operating results. In addition, the erosion through tort liability of the protections we are currently provided by workers’ compensation laws could increase our liability for work-related injuries and materially and adversely affect our operating results. Under federal law, each coal mine operator must secure payment of federal black lung benefits to claimants who are current and former employees and contribute to a trust fund for the payment of benefits and medical expenses to claimants who last worked in the coal industry before January 1, 1970. The trust fund is funded by an excise tax on coal production. If this tax increases, or if we could no longer pass it on to the purchasers of our coal under our coal sales agreements, our operating costs could be increased and our results could be materially and adversely harmed. At December 31, 2012, our liabilities for coal workers’ black lung benefits totaled 26 Table of Contents $34.8 million, which included the estimated impact of PPACA. If new laws or regulations increase the number and award size of claims, it could materially and adversely harm our business. See “Item 1. Business—Legal and Regulatory Requirements—Other Regulatory Requirements.” Federal or state regulatory agencies have the authority to order our mines to be temporarily or permanently closed under certain circumstances, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to meet our customers’ demands. Federal or state regulatory agencies have the authority under certain circumstances following significant health and safety incidents, such as fatalities, to order a mine to be temporarily or permanently closed. If this occurred, we may be required to incur capital expenditures to re-open the mine and may incur fines. In the event that these agencies order the closing of our mines, our coal sales contracts generally permit us to issue force majeure notices which suspend our obligations to deliver coal under these contracts. However, our customers may challenge our issuances of force majeure notices. If these challenges are successful, we may have to purchase coal from third-party sources, if it is available, to fulfill these obligations, incur capital expenditures to re-open the mines and/or negotiate settlements with the customers, which may include price reductions, the reduction of commitments or the extension of time for delivery or termination of customers’ contracts. Our coal operations also provide substantially all of the coal used at our Jewell cokemaking facility. The inability to deliver the required coal to this facility could significantly impact operations at the facility. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Extensive environmental regulations impose significant costs on our mining operations, and future regulations could materially increase those costs, impose new or increased liabilities, limit our ability to produce and sell coal, or require us to change our operations significantly, any one or more of which could materially and adversely affect our financial position and/or results of operations. Our coal mining operations are subject to increasingly strict regulation by federal, state and local authorities with respect to environmental matters such as: • limitations on land use; • mine permitting and licensing requirements; • reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed; • management of materials generated by mining operations; • the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes; • remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, including with respect to past or legacy mining operations; • air quality standards; • water pollution; • protection of human health, plant-life and wildlife, including endangered or threatened species; • protection of wetlands; • the discharge of materials into the environment; • the effects of mining on surface water and groundwater quality and availability; and • the management of electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with the laws and regulations related to these and other environmental matters can be costly and time-consuming, and could delay commencement or continuation of expansion or production operations. We may not have been, or may not be, at all times in compliance with the 27 Table of Contents applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting production from our operations. We may incur material costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from our operations. If we are pursued for sanctions, costs and liabilities in respect of these matters, our mining operations and, as a result, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. New legislation or administrative regulations or new judicial interpretations or administrative enforcement of existing laws and regulations, including proposals related to the protection of the environment that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, also may require us to change operations significantly, or incur increased costs. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 1. Business—Legal and Regulatory Requirements” for further information about the various governmental regulations affecting us. Our coal mining operations are subject to operating risks, some of which are beyond our control, that could result in a material increase in our operating expenses and a decrease in our production levels. Factors beyond our control could disrupt our coal mining operations, adversely affect production and shipments and increase our operating costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Such factors could include: • poor mining conditions resulting from geological, hydrologic or other conditions that may cause damage to nearby infrastructure or mine personnel; • variations in the thickness and quality of coal seams, and variations in the amounts of rock and other natural materials overlying the coal being mined; • a major incident at a mine site that causes all or part of the operations of the mine to cease for some period of time; • mining, processing and plant equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; • adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains or snow, flooding and other natural events affecting operations, transportation or customers; • unexpected or accidental surface subsidence from underground mining; • accidental mine water discharges, fires, explosions or similar mining accidents; and • competition and/or conflicts with other natural resource extraction activities and production within our operating areas, such as coalbed methane extraction. If any of these conditions or events occur, our coal mining operations may be disrupted, we could experience a delay or halt of production or shipments, operating costs could increase significantly, and we could incur substantial losses. In particular, our Jewell cokemaking facility currently obtains essentially all of its metallurgical coal requirements from our existing coal mining operations. Disruptions in our coal mining operations, resulting in decreased production of metallurgical coal, could seriously and adversely affect production at our Jewell cokemaking facility. If transportation for our coal becomes unavailable or uneconomical for our customers, it may impair our ability to sell coal, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal and the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs and the lack of sufficient rail and port capacity could lead to reduced coal sales. For example, all of our coal mining operations are 28 Table of Contents substantially dependent on, and only have access to, a single rail provider. A substantial amount of the metallurgical coal produced from our coal mining operations is used in our adjacent Jewell cokemaking facility. However, future disruption of transportation services (due to weather-related problems, infrastructure damage, strikes, lock-outs, lack of fuel or maintenance items, underperformance of port and rail infrastructure, congestion and balancing systems used to manage vessel queuing and demurrage, transportation delays or other reasons) may temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to other customers and adversely affect our results of operations. We face numerous uncertainties in estimating economically recoverable coal reserves, and inaccuracies in estimates may result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs and decreased profitability. Our future performance depends on, among other things, the accuracy of our estimates of our proven and probable coal reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of economically recoverable coal reserves, including many factors beyond our control. As a result, estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves are by their nature uncertain. We base our estimates of reserves on engineering, economic and geological data assembled, analyzed and reviewed by internal and third-party engineers and consultants. We update our estimates of the quantity and quality of proven and probable coal reserves as needed to reflect production of coal from the reserves, updated geological models and mining recovery data, tonnage contained in newly acquired lease areas and estimated costs of production and sales prices. There are numerous factors and assumptions that affect economically recoverable reserve estimates, including: • quality of the coal; • historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; • geological and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data and/or may differ from our experiences in areas where we currently mine; • the percentage of coal ultimately recoverable; • the assumed effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits, taxes, including severance and excise taxes and royalties, and other payments to governmental agencies; • assumptions concerning the timing for the development of the reserves; and • assumptions concerning equipment and productivity, future coal prices, operating costs, including costs for critical supplies such as fuel and tires, capital expenditures and development and reclamation costs. Each of these factors may vary considerably. As a result, estimates of the quantities and qualities of economically recoverable coal attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, estimated cost of production, and estimates of future net cash flows expected from these properties as prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary materially due to changes in the foregoing factors and assumptions. Therefore, our estimates may not accurately reflect our actual reserves. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variances may be material. We engaged Marshall Miller & Associates, Inc., a leading mining engineering firm, to conduct a new and comprehensive study to determine our proven and probable reserves for our coal mines. This study determined that we control proven and probable coal reserves of approximately 114 million tons as of December 31, 2011, which was an increase of 8 million tons from December 31, 2010. In 2012 we mined over 1 million tons of coal from our proven and probable reserves and control proven and probable coal reserves of approximately 113 million tons at December 31, 2012. Any inaccuracy in our estimates related to our reserves could result in decreased profitability from lower than expected revenues and/or higher than expected costs. 29 Table of Contents Our inability to develop coal reserves in an economically feasible manner could materially and adversely affect our business. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue developing economically recoverable coal reserves. If we fail to develop additional coal reserves, our existing reserves eventually will be depleted. We may not be able to obtain replacement reserves when we require them. Replacement reserves may not be available or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. Our ability to develop coal reserves in the future also may be limited by the availability of cash we generate from our operations or available financing, restrictions under our existing or future financing arrangements, the lack of suitable opportunities or the inability to acquire coal properties or leases on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to develop replacement reserves, our future production may decrease significantly and this may have a material and adverse impact on our cash flows, financial position and results of operations. Mining in Central Appalachia is more complex and involves more regulatory constraints than mining in other areas of the United States, which could affect our mining operations and cost structures in these areas. Our coal mines are located in Virginia and West Virginia, in what is known as the Central Appalachian region. The geological characteristics of Central Appalachian coal reserves, such as coal seam thickness, make them complex and costly to mine. As compared to mines in other regions, permitting, licensing and other environmental and regulatory requirements are more costly and time consuming to satisfy. These factors could materially adversely affect the mining operations and cost structures of coal produced at our mines in Central Appalachia. A defect in title or the loss of a leasehold interest in certain property could limit our ability to mine our coal reserves or result in significant unanticipated costs. We conduct a significant part of our coal mining operations on properties that we lease. A title defect or the loss of a lease could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated coal reserves. We may not verify title to our leased properties or associated coal reserves until we have committed to developing those properties or coal reserves. In some cases, the seller or lessor warrants property title. In other cases, separate title confirmation may not be required for leasing reserves where mining has occurred previously. Our right to mine some of our reserves may be adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist, or if our leasehold interests are subject to superior property rights of third parties. In order to conduct our mining operations on properties where such defects exist, we may incur unanticipated costs. In addition, some leases require us to produce a minimum quantity of coal and require us to pay minimum production royalties. Our inability to satisfy those requirements may cause the leasehold interest to terminate. In addition, we may not be able to successfully negotiate new leases for properties containing additional reserves, or maintain our leasehold interests in properties where we have not commenced mining operations during the term of the lease. Disruptions in the quantities of coal produced by our contract mine operators could impair our ability to fill customer orders or increase our operating costs. We use independent contractors to mine coal at certain of our mining operations. Some of our contract miners may experience adverse geologic mining conditions, operational difficulties, escalated costs, financial difficulties or other factors beyond our control that could affect the availability, pricing and quality of coal produced for us. In addition, market volatility and price increases for coal or freight could result in non-performance by third-party suppliers under existing contracts with us, in order to take advantage of the higher prices in the current market. Disruptions in the quantities of coal produced by independent contractors for us could impair our ability to supply our cokemaking facilities and to fill our customer orders. Our profitability or exposure to loss on transactions or relationships such as these depends upon the reliability of the supply or the ability to substitute, when economical, third-party coal sources, with internal production or coal purchased in the 30 Table of Contents market and other factors. Non-performance by contract miners may adversely affect our ability to fulfill deliveries under our coal supply agreements. If we are unable to fill a customer order, or if we are required to purchase coal from other sources in order to satisfy a customer order, we could lose existing customers and our operating costs could increase. We require a skilled workforce to run our coal mining business. If we or our contractors cannot hire qualified people to meet replacement or expansion needs, our labor costs may increase and we may not be able to achieve planned results. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled workers in multiple disciplines, including experienced foremen, electricians, equipment operators, engineers and welders, among others. Our future success depends greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. We have an aging workforce, and an extended effort to recruit new employees to replace those who retire or a sustained shortage of skilled labor in the areas in which we operate could make it difficult to meet our staffing needs or result in higher labor rates. We also may be forced to hire novice miners, who are required to be accompanied by experienced workers as a safety precaution. These measures could adversely affect our productivity and operating costs. A lack of qualified people also may affect companies that we use to perform certain specialized work. If we or our contractors cannot find enough qualified workers, it may delay completion of projects and increase our costs. We have reclamation and mine closure obligations. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are inaccurate, we may be required to expend significantly greater amounts than anticipated. The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act established operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as most aspects of deep mining. We accrue for the costs of current mine disturbance and of final mine closure, including the cost of treating mine water discharge where necessary. The amounts recorded are dependent upon a number of variables, including the estimated future retirement costs, estimated proven reserves, assumptions involving profit margins, inflation rates, and the assumed credit-adjusted risk-free interest rates. Furthermore, our reclamation and mine-closing liabilities are unfunded. If these accruals are insufficient, or our cash requirements in a particular year are greater than currently anticipated, our future operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our failure to obtain or renew surety bonds on acceptable terms could materially and adversely affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations and, therefore, our ability to mine or lease coal. Our reclamation and mine-closing liabilities are unfunded. Federal and state laws require us to obtain surety bonds to secure performance or payment of certain long-term obligations, such as mine closure or reclamation costs, federal and state workers’ compensation costs, coal leases and other obligations. These bonds are typically renewable annually. Surety bond issuers and holders may not continue to renew the bonds or may demand higher fees, additional collateral, including letters of credit or other terms less favorable to us upon those renewals. We are also subject to increases in the amount of surety bonds required by federal and state laws as these laws, or interpretations of these laws, change. Because we are required by state and federal law to have these bonds in place before mining can commence or continue, our failure to maintain (or inability to acquire) these bonds would have a material and adverse impact on us. That failure could result from a variety of factors, including the following: lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new bonds; restrictions on availability of collateral for current and future third-party surety bond issuers under the terms of future indebtedness; our inability to meet certain financial tests with respect to a portion of the post-mining reclamation bonds; and the exercise by third-party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew or issue new bonds. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock or securities or instruments that are convertible into our capital stock, which could reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of options, shares that may be issued to satisfy our obligations under our incentive plans, shares of our authorized but unissued preferred stock and securities and instruments that are convertible into our common stock. Issuances of common stock or voting preferred stock would reduce your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote and, in the case of issuances of preferred stock, likely would result in your interest in us being subject to the prior rights of holders of that preferred stock. We have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, so you may not receive funds without selling your common stock. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock are limited by restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, and will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our Board of Directors deems relevant. Further, we may not have sufficient surplus under Delaware law to be able to pay any dividends in the future. The absence of sufficient surplus may result from extraordinary cash expenses, actual expenses exceeding contemplated costs, funding of capital expenditures or increases in reserves. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”) could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include: • a Board of Directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; • action by written consent of stockholders may only be taken unanimously by holders of all our shares of common stock; • rules regarding how our stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; • the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; • limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors; and • limitations on our ability to be acquired. The DGCL also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. We believe that these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our Board of Directors 32 Table of Contents with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is in our best interests and that of our stockholders. Any or all of the foregoing provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Separation from Sunoco We have a limited operating history as a separate public company, and our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly-traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. Our historical financial information for the periods ended prior to the Separation included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Sunoco. Accordingly, the historical financial information included here do not necessarily reflect the results of operations, financial position and cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly-traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the following factors: • Prior to the Separation, our business was operated by Sunoco as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. Sunoco or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to, legal services, treasury, accounting, auditing, risk management, information technology, human resources, corporate affairs, tax administration, certain governance functions (including internal audit and compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) and external reporting. Our historical financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Sunoco for these and similar functions. These allocations are likely less than the comparable expenses we believe we would have incurred had we operated as a separate public company. • Previously, our business was integrated with the other businesses of Sunoco. Historically, we have shared economies of scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. While we entered into transition agreements with Sunoco in connection with the Separation that govern certain commercial and other relationships between us, those transitional arrangements may not fully capture the benefits our businesses have enjoyed as a result of being integrated with the other businesses of Sunoco. The loss of these benefits could have an adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position and results of operations. • Generally, prior to the Separation, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, research and development and capital expenditures, were satisfied as part of the enterprise-wide cash management policies of Sunoco. In connection with the Separation and the IPO, we obtained financing in the form of our credit facilities and notes. In the future, we may need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements. • The cost of capital for our business may be higher than Sunoco’s cost of capital prior to the Separation. Other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a public company separate from Sunoco. The adjustments and allocations we have made in preparing our historical Combined and Consolidated Financial Statements may not appropriately reflect our operations during those periods as if we had in fact operated as a stand-alone entity, or what the actual effect of our Separation from Sunoco will be. 33 Table of Contents If there is a determination that the Distribution is taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the Internal Revenue Service, (“IRS”), private letter ruling or tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, then Sunoco and its shareholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities and we could incur significant liabilities. Sunoco has received a private letter ruling from the IRS, substantially to the effect that, among other things, the contribution and the distribution qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, Sunoco has received an opinion of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, counsel to Sunoco, to the effect that the contribution and the distribution will qualify as a transaction that is described in Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. The ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Sunoco and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Sunoco and its shareholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinion of tax counsel, the IRS could determine on audit that the Separation is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of Sunoco or us after the Separation. If the Separation is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Sunoco and its shareholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities and we could incur significant liabilities. See Note 8 to the Combined and Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the sharing of such liabilities between Sunoco and us. To preserve the tax-free treatment to Sunoco of the contribution and the Distribution, we may not be able to engage in certain transactions. To preserve the tax-free treatment to Sunoco of the contribution and the Distribution, under the tax sharing agreement we are restricted from taking any action that prevents the Distribution and related transactions from being tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or engage in other transactions, including use of our common stock to make acquisitions and equity capital market transactions, that might increase the value of our business. See Note 8 to the Combined and Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Risks Related to Our Master Limited Partnership We own a significant equity interest in SunCoke Energy Partners, L.P. (the “Partnership”), a publicly traded master limited partnership. We own the general partner of the Partnership, which consists of a 2 percent ownership interest and incentive distribution rights, and we currently own a 55.9 percent interest in the Partnership. The Partnership holds a 65 percent interest in each of two entities that own our Haverhill and Middletown cokemaking facilities and related assets. The Haverhill and Middletown facilities have a combined 300 cokemaking ovens with an aggregate capacity of approximately 1.7 million tons per year and an average age of four years. The Partnership currently operates at full capacity and expects to sell an aggregate of approximately 1.7 million tons of coke per year to two primary customers: AK Steel and ArcelorMittal. All of the Partnership’s coke sales are made pursuant to long-term take-or-pay agreements. Our financial statements include the consolidated results of the Partnership. The Partnership is subject to operating and regulatory risks which are substantially similar to our own. The occurrence of any of these risks could directly or indirectly affect the Partnership’s, as well as our, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as the Partnership is a consolidated subsidiary. For additional information about the Partnership, see “Cokemaking Operations” and “Formation of a Master Limited Partnership” in Business and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Operating Results (Items 1 and 7). 34 Table of Contents We are party to an omnibus agreement with the Partnership that exposes us to various risks and uncertainties. In connection with the initial public offering of the Partnership, we entered into an omnibus agreement with the Partnership. Pursuant to this agreement, we have agreed to grant the Partnership preferential rights to pursue certain growth opportunities we identify in the United States and Canada and a right of first offer to acquire certain of our cokemaking assets located in the United States and Canada for so long as we control the Partnership’s general partner. In addition, pursuant to this agreement, we have agreed, for a period of five years from the closing of the initial public offering, to make the Partnership whole, in certain circumstances, to the extent of a customer’s failure to satisfy its obligations or to the extent a customer’s obligations are reduced. This includes an obligation during this five year period to indemnify the Partnership in the event that AK Steel fails to fulfill its obligations to purchase or pay for coke under the Haverhill coke sales agreement, subject to certain conditions. Additionally, pursuant to this agreement, we have agreed to indemnify the Partnership for certain environmental remediation costs arising prior to the closing of the initial public offering. The agreement further provides that we will fully indemnify the Partnership with respect to any tax liability arising prior to or in connection with the closing of the initial public offering and that we will cure or fully indemnify the Partnership for losses resulting from certain title defects at the properties owned by the Partnership or its subsidiaries. Our obligations and the extent of our exposures that may arise under the omnibus agreement are subject to various contingencies and cannot be estimated with certainty at this time. The tax treatment of the Partnership depends on its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as not being subject to a material amount of entity level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) treats the Partnership as a corporation or it becomes subject to a material amount of entity level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to its unitholders, including SunCoke Energy. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of SunCoke Energy’s investment in the common units of the Partnership depends largely on the Partnership being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The Partnership has not requested, and does not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this matter. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the ones the Partnership has taken. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions the Partnership takes may impact adversely the market for its common units, and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce the Partnership’s cash available for distribution to unitholders, including SunCoke Energy. If the Partnership was treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, it would pay federal income tax at the corporate tax rate, and likely would pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders, including SunCoke Energy, generally would be taxed again as corporate distributions. Treatment of the Partnership as a corporation would result in a material reduction in its anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to unitholders, including SunCoke Energy. Current law may change so as to cause the Partnership to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or to otherwise subject it to a material level of entity level taxation. States are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. If any of these states were to impose a tax on the Partnership, the cash available for distribution to unitholders, including Suncoke Energy, would be reduced. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in the Partnership’s common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including the Partnership, or an investment in its common units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Moreover, any such modification could make it more difficult or impossible for the Partnership to meet the exception which allows publicly traded partnerships that generate qualifying income to be treated as partnerships (rather than corporations) for U.S. federal income tax purposes, affect or cause us to change our 35 Table of Contents business activities, or affect the tax consequences of an investment in its common units. For example, members of Congress have been considering substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income and the treatment of certain types of income earned from partnerships. While these specific proposals would not appear to affect the treatment of the Partnership as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of SunCoke Energy’s investment in the Partnership’s common units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 