ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Because we intend to continue to originate commercial real estate, multi-family and commercial business loans, our credit risk may increase, and continued downturns in the local real estate market or economy could adversely affect our earnings. We intend to continue originating commercial real estate, multi-family and commercial business loans. At June 30, 2012, $32.9 million, or 12.5%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans, $38.5 million, or 14.6%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of multi-family loans, and $13.9 million, or 5.3%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial business loans. These categories of loans have increased significantly since June 30, 2007, when $21.1 million, or 10.1%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans, $1.1 million, or 0.5%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of multi-family loans, and $5.0 million, or 2.4%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial business loans. We expect each of these loan categories to continue to increase as a percentage of our total loan portfolio. Commercial real estate, multi-family and commercial business loans generally have more risk than the one- to four-family residential real estate loans that we originate. Because the repayment of commercial real estate, multi-family and commercial business loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the local real estate market or economy. Commercial real estate, multi-family and commercial business loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of related borrowers. In addition, a downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower’s business, thereby increasing the risk of nonperforming loans. As our commercial real estate, multi-family and commercial business loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. 33 Table of Contents If our non-performing loans and other non-performing assets increase, our earnings will decrease. At June 30, 2012, our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accrual loans, loans 90 days or more delinquent, troubled debt restructurings and real estate owned) totaled $6.6 million, which is an increase of $640,000 over our non-performing assets at June 30, 2011, and $2.3 million over our non-performing assets at June 30, 2010. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans, and we must establish reserves or take charge-offs for probable losses on non-performing loans. Reserves are established through a current period charge to income in the provision for loan losses. There are also legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets. Additionally, our real estate owned results in carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance fees. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract us from the overall supervision of operations and other income-producing activities of Iroquois Federal. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly by recording a provision for loan losses. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral, if any, securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We may experience significant loan losses, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses in our loan portfolio, requiring us to make additions to our allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.34% of total loans at June 30, 2012. Additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Future changes in interest rates could reduce our profits. Our profitability largely depends on our net interest income, which can be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: • the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and • the interest expense we incur on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The interest rates on our loans are generally fixed for a longer period of time than the interest rates on our deposits. Like many savings institutions, our focus on deposits as a source of funds, which either have no stated maturity or shorter contractual maturities than mortgage loans, results in our liabilities having a shorter average duration than our assets. For example, as of June 30, 2012, 47.0% of our loans had remaining maturities of, or reprice after, 15 years or longer, while 74.9% of our certificates of deposit had remaining maturities of, or reprice in, one year or less. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest we earn on our assets, such as loans and investments, may not increase as rapidly as the interest we pay on our liabilities, such as deposits. In a period of declining market interest rates, the interest income we earn on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest expense we incur on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called or prepaid, thereby requiring us to reinvest these cash flows at lower interest rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A decline in interest rates generally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. 34 Table of Contents We evaluate interest rate sensitivity using a model that estimates the change in our net portfolio value over a range of interest rate scenarios, also known as a “rate shock” analysis. Net portfolio value is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the past three years it has been the policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than as available prior to 2008. Consequently, the average yield on our interest earning assets has decreased to 3.85% for the year ended June 30, 2011 from 5.71% for the year ended June 30, 2008. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets. This has resulted in increases in net interest income in the short term. However, our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the near future. Accordingly, our net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may decrease, which may have an adverse affect on our profitability. A portion of our loan portfolio consists of loan participations secured by properties outside of our primary market area. Loan participations may have a higher risk of loss than loans we originate because we are not the lead lender and we have limited control over credit monitoring. We occasionally purchase loan participations secured by properties outside of our primary market area in which we are not the lead lender. Although we underwrite these loan participations consistent with our general underwriting criteria, loan participations may have a higher risk of loss than loans we originate because we rely on the lead lender to monitor the performance of the loan. Moreover, our decision regarding the classification of a loan participation and loan loss provisions associated with a loan participation is made in part based upon information provided by the lead lender. A lead lender also may not monitor a participation loan in the same manner as we would for loans that we originate. At June 30, 2012, our loan participations totaled $16.2 million, or 6.1% of our gross loans, most of which are within 100 miles of our primary lending market and consist primarily of multi-family, commercial real estate and commercial loans. Additionally, we expect to continue to use loan participations following completion of the stock offering as a way to effectively deploy our net proceeds. If our underwriting of these participation loans is not sufficient, our non-performing loans may increase and our earnings may decrease. We have in the past purchased loans originated by other banks and mortgage companies, some of which have experienced a higher rate of losses than loans that we originate. If we continue to experience losses on these loans, our earnings will decrease. In addition to loans that we originate, at June 30, 2012, our loan portfolio included $17.2 million of purchased loans. These loans were primarily purchased from three vendors: Irwin Mortgage Corporation (now serviced by Everhome Mortgage Company); Mid America Bank (now serviced by PNC Bank); and Countrywide Financial (now serviced by Bank of America). Of these loans, $4.2 million were purchased from Countrywide and have experienced a significantly higher rate of losses than loans that we originate. As of June 30, 2012, the loans purchased from Countrywide consisted of 7 loans secured by one- to four-family residential loans, primarily in the Chicago market area. Of these 7 loans, 2 are classified as substandard and have specific allowances of $67,000. The other 5 loans are performing in accordance with their original terms. If we experience additional losses on these loans, our earnings will decrease. 35 Table of Contents Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has changed the bank regulatory framework, created an independent consumer protection bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and established more stringent capital standards for savings associations and savings and loan holding companies, subject to a transition period and an exemption for savings and loan holding companies under $500 million in assets. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulatory actions, may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business activities, including our ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These risks could affect the performance and value of our loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect our financial performance. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Federal regulations govern the activities in which we may engage, and are primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operations of a savings association, the classification of assets by a savings association, and the adequacy of a savings association’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations or legislation, could have a material impact on our results of operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change. Any legislative, regulatory or policy changes adopted in the future could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. Further, we expect any such new laws, rules or regulations will add to our compliance costs and place additional demands on our management team. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, credit unions, mortgage brokerage firms, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. Our earnings have been negatively affected by the reduction in dividends paid by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago. The Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Chicago ceased paying dividends in the third quarter of 2007, and resumed paying a dividend in the fourth quarter of 2010. The dividend paid for the second quarter of 2012 was equal to an annualized rate of 30 basis points per share, far below the dividend paid by the FHLB of Chicago prior to 2007. The failure of the FHLB of Chicago to pay full dividends for any quarter will reduce our earnings during that quarter. At June 30, 2012, the carrying value of our FHLB of Chicago stock was $4.2 million. 36 Table of Contents Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 