Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. These risk factors represent what we believe to be the known material risk factors with respect to us and our business. Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to these risks and uncertainties, any of which could cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. Unfavorable economic conditions may cause our customers to reduce their demand for our products or default on their obligations to us, both of which could adversely affect our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. Economic conditions in the United States and throughout much of the world experienced a sudden, sharp downturn in 2008 and 2009. If such unfavorable economic conditions were to occur again, certain of our metallurgical coke customers may reduce their demand for our coke and coal, seek to delay shipments, or may struggle or fail to meet their obligations to us, especially if they experience defaults on receivables due from their customers. Our steel industry customers experience significant fluctuations in demand for steel products because of economic conditions, consumer demand, raw material and energy costs, and decisions by the U.S. federal and state governments to fund or not fund infrastructure projects, such as highways, bridges, schools, energy plants, railroads and transportation facilities. Unfavorable economic conditions, including the reduced availability of credit, may cause a reduction in the demand for steel products, which, in turn, could adversely affect our customers’ demand for our products. During periods of weak demand for steel or coal, our customers may seek to renegotiate or cancel their existing coke and coal purchase commitments to us, or decline to renew existing agreements with us when such agreements expire. As a result, we may not be able to sell all the coke and coal that we produce. Future disruptions of the credit markets may result in financial instability of some of our customers and, in some cases, lead to their insolvency and/or bankruptcy. Such instability could cause our customers to default on their obligations to us. In addition, competition with other suppliers of coke or coal could force us to extend credit to customers and on terms that could increase the risk of payment default. Any of these events ultimately could have an adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations, which may increase our cost of doing business and have an adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. Environmental, Health and Safety Laws Our operations are subject to increasingly strict regulation by federal, state and local authorities with respect to protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those legal requirements pursuant to the Clean Air Act and other laws that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the protection of groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of properties after mining or drilling is completed, the installation of various safety equipment in our facilities, control of surface subsidence from underground mining protection of employee health and safety. Complying with these requirements, including the terms of our permits, can be costly and time-consuming, and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. 13 Table of Contents Failure to comply with these regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could limit our operations. We may not have been, or may not be, at all times, in complete compliance with all of these requirements, and we may incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements, or in connection with remediation at sites we own, or third-party sites where it has been alleged that we have liability, in excess of the amounts we have accrued. In addition, these requirements are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. These requirements may change in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business. For a description of certain environmental laws and matters applicable to us, see “Item 1. Business—Legal and Regulatory Requirements.” In addition, greenhouse gas emissions may be subject to future federal regulation. The EPA has begun to implement greenhouse gas-related reporting and permitting rules, and the U.S. Congress has considered “cap and trade” legislation that would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of greenhouse gases and require most sources of greenhouse gas emissions to obtain greenhouse gas emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions of greenhouse gases. Federal or state regulations requiring us, or our customers, to employ expensive technology to capture and sequester carbon dioxide could adversely affect our future revenues, or profitability. Healthcare Laws The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or “PPACA”, which was implemented in 2010, amended previous legislation related to coal workers’ black lung obligations. PPACA provides for the automatic extension of awarded lifetime benefits to surviving spouses and changes the legal criteria used to assess and award claims. Our obligation related to black lung benefits is estimated based on various assumptions, including actuarial estimates, discount rates, and changes in health care costs. The impact of the PPACA in 2011, based on available trend rates and other current information, was approximately $2.0 million. Equipment upgrades, equipment failures and deterioration of assets may lead to production curtailments, shutdowns or additional expenditures. Our cokemaking and coal mining operations depend upon critical pieces of equipment that occasionally may be out of service for scheduled upgrades or maintenance or as a result of unanticipated failures. Our facilities are subject to equipment failures and the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, accidents or violent weather conditions. As a result, we may experience interruptions in our processing and production capabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, assets critical to the operations of our cokemaking and coal mining operations, including our cokemaking facilities and equipment and our coal mines, may deteriorate or become depleted materially sooner than we currently estimate. Such deterioration of assets may result in additional maintenance spending or additional capital expenditures. If these assets do not generate the amount of future cash flows that we expect, and we are not able to procure replacement assets in an economically feasible manner, our future results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are also required to perform impairment tests on our assets whenever events or changes in circumstances lead to a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows that would indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable or whenever management’s plans change with respect to those assets. If we are required to incur impairment charges in the future, our results of operations in the period taken could be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain, maintain or renew permits or leases necessary for our operations, which could materially reduce our production, cash flow or profitability. Our cokemaking facilities and coal mining operations require us to obtain a number of permits that impose strict regulations on various environmental and operational matters in connection with cokemaking and coal mining. These include permits used by various federal, state and local agencies and regulatory bodies. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex, change frequently, and are often subject to discretionary interpretations by our regulators, all of which may make compliance more difficult or impractical, and may possibly preclude the continuance of ongoing operations or the development of future cokemaking facilities or coal mines. The public, including non-governmental organizations, environmental groups and individuals, have certain statutory rights to comment upon and submit objections to requested permits and environmental impact statements prepared in connection with applicable regulatory processes, and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including bringing citizen’s lawsuits to challenge the issuance of permits, the validity of environmental impact statements or performance of cokemaking or coal mining activities. For example, environmental groups have challenged our permit-to-install for our Middletown, Ohio facility on the basis that the facility fails to satisfactorily meet the requirements of the Clean Air Act. See “Item 1. Business—Legal and Regulatory Requirements— Environmental Matters and Compliance.” If this challenge succeeds, or any permits or leases are not issued or renewed in a timely fashion or at all, or if permits issued or renewed are conditioned in a manner that restricts our ability to efficiently and economically conduct our cokemaking or coal mining operations, our cash flows or profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Our businesses are subject to inherent risks, some for which we maintain third-party insurance and some for which we self-insure. We may incur losses and be subject to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our businesses. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to renew our existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, certain environmental and pollution risks generally are not fully insurable. Even where insurance coverage applies, insurers may contest their obligations to make payments. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by losses and liabilities from un-insured or under-insured events, as well as by delays in the payment of insurance proceeds, or the failure by insurers to make payments. We also may incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from our operations. We must compensate employees for work-related injuries. If we do not make adequate provision for our workers’ compensation liabilities, it could harm our future operating results. If we are pursued for these sanctions, costs and liabilities, our operations and our profitability could be adversely affected. Our operating results have been and may continue to be affected by fluctuations in our costs of production, and, if we cannot pass increases in our costs of production to our customers, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected. Over the course of the last two to three years, many of the components of our cost of produced coke and coal revenues, including cost of supplies, equipment and labor, have experienced significant price inflation, and such price inflation may continue in the future. Our coal mining operations, for example, require a reliable supply of mining and industrial equipment, replacement parts, fuel and steel-related products, including roof control and lubricants. The supplier base providing such mining materials and equipment has been relatively consistent in recent years, although there continues to be consolidation, resulting in a situation where purchases of certain 15 Table of Contents underground mining equipment are concentrated in single suppliers. The price of such components is also highly volatile. Our profit margins may be reduced and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if the costs of production increase significantly and we cannot pass such increases in our costs of production to our customers. If we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations, we may be adversely affected. Union represented labor creates an increased risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs. If some, or all, of our non-union operations become unionized, we may be subject to an increased risk of work stoppages, other labor disputes and higher labor costs, which may adversely affect the stability of production and reduce our future revenues, or profitability. Legislation has been proposed to the U.S. Congress to enact a law allowing for workers to choose union representation solely by signing election cards, which would eliminate the use of secret ballots to elect union representation. While the impact is uncertain, if such legislation is enacted into law, it will be administratively easier for labor unions to organize into collective bargaining units and may lead to more of our operations becoming unionized. We have obligations for long-term employee plan benefits that may involve expenses that are greater than we have assumed. We are required to provide various long-term employee benefits to retired employees and current employees who will retire in the future. At December 31, 2011, these obligations included: • pension benefits of $35.8 million; and • postretirement medical and life insurance of $49.7 million. We have estimated certain of these unfunded obligations based on actuarial assumptions described in the notes to our financial statements. However, if our assumptions are inaccurate, we could be required to expend materially greater amounts than anticipated. Approximately 84 percent of the pension benefits were funded on an accounting basis at December 31, 2011, while the post-retirement medical and life insurance obligations are unfunded. If we are required to expend materially greater amounts than anticipated, it could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We currently are, and likely will be, subject to litigation, the disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. The nature of our operations exposes us to possible litigation claims in the future, including disputes relating to our operations and commercial and contractual arrangements. Although we make every effort to avoid litigation, these matters are not totally within our control. We will contest these matters vigorously and have made insurance claims where appropriate, but because of the uncertain nature of litigation and coverage decisions, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. In January 2011, we settled a significant litigation matter with certain operating subsidiaries of ArcelorMittal USA, the customer purchasing coke from our Jewell cokemaking facility. Litigation is very costly, and the costs associated with prosecuting and defending litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and profitability. In addition, our profitability or cash flow in a particular period could be affected by an adverse ruling in any litigation currently pending in the courts or by litigation that may be filed against us in the future. We are also subject to significant environmental and other government regulation, which sometimes results in various administrative proceedings. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the senior notes and the credit facilities. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, our total debt was approximately $726.4 million, excluding $150.0 million of unused commitments under the credit facilities. Additionally, the credit agreement provides for up to $75.0 million in uncommitted incremental facilities that are available subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, $30.0 million of which was outstanding as of December 31, 2011. 16 Table of Contents Subject to the limits contained in the credit agreement that governs the credit facilities (which term includes our new revolving, term loan and incremental facilities), the Indenture that governs the notes and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the notes and our other debt; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under the credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other, less leveraged competitors; and • increasing our cost of borrowing. In addition, the indenture that governs the notes and the credit agreement governing our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under the credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. We have entered into and may in the future enter into additional interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. However, we may decide not to maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. Risks Related to Our Cokemaking Business Our customers operate in a competitive and cyclical industry, and their default or non-compliance on their contractual obligations to purchase coke from us, or the failure of our customers to continue to purchase coke from us at similar prices under similar arrangements, may have a material and adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. All of our coke sales agreements contain take-or-pay provisions, pursuant to which our customers are required to either take all of our coke production up to a specified tonnage maximum or pay the contract price for any such coke they elect not to accept. During periods of weak demand for steel, our steel industry customers may experience significant reductions in their operations, or substantial declines in the prices of the steel they sell. These and other factors may lead some customers to seek renegotiation or cancellation of their existing 17 Table of Contents long-term coke purchase commitments to us. We have, and will continue to, work constructively with our customers to resolve issues, and, where appropriate, we will actively pursue legal process to protect our rights. Customer defaults on existing contractual obligations to purchase our coke may have a material and adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If a substantial portion of our agreements to supply metallurgical coke are modified or terminated or if force majeure is exercised, we may be adversely affected if we are not able to replace such agreements, or if we are not able to enter into new agreements at the same level of profitability. The profitability of our long-term coke sales agreements depends on a variety of factors that vary from agreement to agreement and fluctuate during the agreement term. We may not be able to obtain or renew long-term agreements at favorable prices, compared either to market conditions or to our cost structure. Price changes provided in long-term supply agreements may not reflect actual increases in production costs. As a result, such cost increases may reduce profit margins on our long-term coke sales agreements. In addition, contractual provisions for adjustment or renegotiation of prices and other provisions may increase our exposure to short-term price volatility. From time to time, we discuss the extension of existing agreements and enter into new long-term agreements for the supply of metallurgical coke to our customers, but these negotiations may not be successful and these customers may not continue to purchase coke from us under long-term coke sales agreements. If any one or more of these customers were to significantly reduce their purchases of coke from us, or if we were unable to sell coke to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our cash flows, financial position and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Further, because of certain technological design constraints, we do not have the ability to shut down our cokemaking operations if we do not have adequate customer demand. If a customer refuses to take or pay for our coke, we must continuously operate our coke ovens even though we may not be able to sell our coke immediately and may incur significant additional costs for natural gas to maintain the temperature inside our coke oven batteries, which may have a material and adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The financial performance of our cokemaking business is substantially dependent upon three customers in the steel industry, and any failure by them to perform under their contracts with us could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Substantially all of our domestic coke sales are currently made under long-term contracts with ArcelorMittal, U.S. Steel and AK Steel. For the year ended December 31, 2011, ArcelorMittal, U.S. Steel and AK Steel accounted for approximately 64, 18 and 14 percent of our total revenues, respectively. We expect these three customers to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. If any one or more of these customers were to significantly reduce its purchases of coke from us, or default on their agreements with us, or fail to renew or terminate its agreements with us, or if we were unable to sell coke to any one or more of these customers on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our cash flows, financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully implement our North American growth strategy and develop, design, construct, start up, or operate new cokemaking facilities in North America. We may not be able to complete construction of, or efficiently operate, cokemaking facilities that we develop in the future. Further development of future cokemaking facilities may not be within the expected time line or budget. We cannot predict the effect that any failed expansion may have on our core business. Regardless of whether we are successful in constructing and/or operating additional cokemaking facilities, the negotiations for development of such facilities could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management and increase our expenses. If we are not able to successfully execute our plans for the development and expansion of our North American cokemaking operations, whether as a result of unfavorable market conditions in the steel industry or otherwise, our future revenues and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully implement our international growth strategy and develop, design, construct, start up and operate new, or make investments in existing, cokemaking facilities outside of North America. A central element of our growth strategy involves the international expansion of our business. We expanded our cokemaking business internationally in 2007 through our development and operation of our customer’s cokemaking facility in Vitória, Brazil. We are currently exploring opportunities with steel companies for developing new cokemaking facilities in foreign countries, which could be either wholly owned or developed through other business structures. We also are exploring opportunities with respect to making investments in entities that own and operate, or forming a joint venture or similar arrangement with respect to assets comprising, existing cokemaking facilities in foreign countries, principally in India and China. In the event we make an investment in an entity that owns and operates an existing cokemaking facility, or form a joint venture or other similar arrangement with respect to assets comprising an existing cokemaking facility, we would share ownership and management with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, or resources as we do. Such arrangements are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Making an investment in an entity that owns and operates an existing cokemaking facility or operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. We would be required to pay close attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the existing entity or joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be materially adversely affected. The benefits from a successful investment in an existing entity or joint venture would be shared among the co-owners, so that we would not receive all the benefits from a successful investment. Our ability to expand internationally by entering into additional arrangements in non-U.S. markets and to successfully implement our international growth strategy is subject to a variety of risks, including, but not limited to: • the possibility of negative developments in the demand for steel in non-U.S. markets; • the difficulty or costs associated with complying with industry guidelines or laws or regulations of non-U.S. markets; • the possibility that language and other cultural differences may inhibit our development and operations efforts and create internal communication problems among our U.S. and non-U.S. teams, increasing the difficulty of managing multiple, remote locations performing various development and quality assurance projects; • compliance with non-U.S. laws that may be unfamiliar to our management and employees; • currency risk due to the fact that our revenues and expenses for our international operations may be denominated in different currencies; and • economic or political instability or legal restrictions could affect our ability to efficiently invest and repatriate our capital from the local country. If we are not able to successfully execute our plans for international development and expansion of our cokemaking operations, as a result of unfavorable market conditions in the steel industry or otherwise, our future revenues and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Excess capacity in the global steel industry, including in China, may weaken demand for steel produced by our U.S. steel industry customers, which, in turn, may reduce demand for our coke. In some countries, such as China, steelmaking capacity exceeds demand for steel products. Rather than reducing employment by matching production capacity to consumption, steel manufacturers in these countries 19 Table of Contents (often with local government assistance or subsidies in various forms) may export steel at prices that are significantly below their home market prices and that may not reflect their costs of production or capital. The availability of this steel at such prices may negatively affect our steelmaking customers, who may not be able to increase the prices that they charge for steel as the supply of steel increases. As a result, the profitability and financial position of our steelmaking customers may be adversely affected, which in turn, could adversely affect the certainty of our long-term relationships with those customers and our own financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Increased exports of coke from China may weaken our customers’ demand for new coke capacity. A World Trade Organization (the “WTO”) appeals panel recently ruled that China’s export duties and export quotas on certain raw materials, including coke, violated global trade rules. The WTO’s dispute-settlement body will decide whether to adopt the appeals panel report. If the report is adopted, China will be required to put measures in place to comply with the ruling. While we do not know the nature or timing of any such measures that China may be required to enact, such measures could result in increased exports of coke from China. Increased exports of coke from China could reduce our customers’ demand for new coke capacity, which would limit our ability to construct a potential new U.S. plant and to enter into new commercial arrangements with our steel industry customers and materially and adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. We face increasing competition both from alternative steelmaking and cokemaking technologies that have the potential to reduce or completely eliminate the use of metallurgical coke, may reduce the demand for the coke we produce and which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Historically, metallurgical coke has been used as a main input in the production of steel in blast furnaces, and nearly all integrated steel mills still use blast furnace technology. However, some blast furnace operators have reduced the amount of coke per ton of hot metal through alternative injectants, such as pulverised coal injectant and natural gas, and the use of these coke substitutes could increase in the future. Many steelmakers also are exploring alternatives to blast furnace technology that require less or no use of metallurgical coke. For example, electric arc furnace technology is a commercially proven process widely used in the U.S. As these alternative processes for production of steel become more widespread, the demand for metallurgical coke, including the coke we produce, may be significantly reduced, and this reduction could have a material and adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We also face competition from alternative cokemaking technologies, including both by-product and non-recovery technologies. As these technologies improve and as new technologies are developed, we anticipate that competition among non-conventional coke producers will intensify. Such increased competition may adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. Certain provisions in our long-term coke sales agreements, resulting in suspension of the performance due to force majeure, or imposition of economic penalties for failure to meet minimum volume requirements or other required specifications, may have an adverse effect on our future revenues, or profitability. All of our coke sales agreements contain provisions requiring us to supply minimum volumes of coke to our customers. To the extent we do not meet these minimum volumes, we are generally required under the terms of our coke sales agreements to procure replacement coke supply to our customers at the applicable contract price or potentially be subject to cover damages for any shortfall. For example, in 2010, we did not meet our contractual volume minimums at our Indiana Harbor cokemaking facility. Because our customer did not require the additional coke, we were not required to replace the shortfall nor did we incur financial penalties. In the first quarter of 2011, we again expected that production volumes at our Indiana Harbor cokemaking facility would be below the contractual minimum levels and as such, contracted for third party coke supply to meet the expected shortfall at a cost that exceeded our contract selling price. However, operational improvements have increased production and coke production was sufficient to meet our contractual requirements at our Indiana Harbor 20 Table of Contents facility in 2011. If future shortfalls occur at any of our facilities, we will work with our customers to identify possible other supply sources while we implement operating improvements at the facility, but we may not be successful in identifying alternative supplies and may be subject to paying the contract price for any shortfall or for cover damages, either of which could adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. Most of our coke sales agreements also contain provisions requiring us to deliver coke that meets certain quality thresholds. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of our agreements, any or all of which could adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. Our coke sales agreements contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by our customers during the duration of specified events beyond the control of our customers. Declaration of force majeure, coupled with a lengthy suspension of performance under one or more coke sales agreements, may seriously and adversely affect our cash flows, financial position and results of operations. Income from operation of the Vitória, Brazil cokemaking facility may be affected by global and regional economic and political factors and the policies and actions of the Brazilian government. The Vitória cokemaking facility is owned by a project company controlled by a Brazilian affiliate of ArcelorMittal. We earn income from the Vitória, Brazil operations through licensing and operating fees earned at the Brazilian cokemaking facility payable to us under long-term agreements with the project company and an annual preferred dividend from the project company guaranteed by the Brazilian affiliate of ArcelorMittal. These revenues depend on continuing operations and, in some cases, certain minimum production levels being achieved at the Vitória cokemaking facility. In the past, the Brazilian economy was characterized by frequent and occasionally extensive intervention by the Brazilian government and unstable economic cycles. The Brazilian government has changed in the past, and may change monetary, taxation, credit, tariff and other policies to influence Brazil’s economy in the future. If the operations at Vitória cokemaking facility are interrupted or if certain minimum production levels are not achieved, we will not be able to earn the same licensing and operating fees as we are currently earning, which could have an adverse affect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. To the extent we do not meet coal-to-coke yield standards in our coke sales agreements, we are responsible for the cost of the excess coal used in the cokemaking process, which could adversely impact our results of operations and profitability. Our ability to pass through our coal costs to our customers under our coke sales agreements is generally subject to our ability to meet some form of coal-to-coke yield standard. To the extent that we do not meet the yield standard in the contract, we are responsible for the cost of the excess coal used in the cokemaking process. We may not be able to meet the yield standards at all times, and as a result we may suffer lower margins on our coke sales and our results of operations and profitability could be adversely affected. Disruptions to our supply of coal and coal blending services may reduce the amount of coke we produce and deliver and, if we are not able to cover the shortfall in coal supply or obtain replacement blending services from other providers, our results of operations and profitability could be adversely affected. Most of the metallurgical coal used to produce coke at our cokemaking facilities, other than our Jewell facility, is purchased from third parties under one- to two-year contracts. While we believe there is an ample supply of metallurgical coal available and we have been able to supply these facilities without any significant disruption in coke production in the past, economic, environmental and other conditions outside of our control may reduce our ability to source sufficient amounts of coal for our forecasted operational needs. The failure of our coal suppliers to meet their supply commitments could materially and adversely impact our results of operations if we are not able to make up the shortfalls resulting from such supply failures through purchases of coal from other sources. 21 Table of Contents Other than at our Jewell cokemaking facility, we rely on third parties to blend coals that we have purchased into coal blends that we use to produce coke. We have entered into long-term agreements with coal blending service providers that are co-terminous with our coke sales agreements. Generally, we store an inventory of blended coal at or near our cokemaking facilities to cover approximately 15 to 30 days of coke production. There are limited alternative providers of coal blending services and disruptions from our current service providers could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Limitations on the availability and reliability of transportation, and increases in transportation costs, particularly rail systems, could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain a supply of coal and deliver coke to our customers. Our ability to obtain coal depends primarily on third-party rail systems and to a lesser extent river barges. If we are unable to obtain rail or other transportation services, or are unable to do so on a cost-effective basis, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Alternative transportation and delivery systems are generally inadequate and not suitable to handle the quantity of our shipments or to ensure timely delivery. The loss of access to rail capacity could create temporary disruption until the access is restored, significantly impairing our ability to receive coal and resulting in materially decreased revenues. Our ability to open new cokemaking facilities may also be affected by the availability and cost of rail or other transportation systems available for servicing these facilities. Our coke production obligations at our Jewell cokemaking facility and one half of our Haverhill cokemaking facility require us to deliver coke to certain customers via railcar. We have entered into long-term rail transportation agreements to meet these obligations. Disruption of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, mechanical difficulties, train derailments, infrastructure damage, strikes, lock-outs, lack of fuel or maintenance items, fuel costs, transportation delays, accidents, terrorism, domestic catastrophe or other events could temporarily, or over the long-term impair, our ability to produce coke, and therefore, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Brazilian licensing agreement for certain of our Brazilian patents used at the Vitória cokemaking facility may terminate if we are not able to maintain or supplement the patents subject to the licensing agreement, which may have an adverse effect on our future revenues and profitability. We currently collect certain fees in connection with the licensing of certain of our Brazilian patents at the Vitória cokemaking facility pursuant to a Brazilian licensing agreement with a term that runs through 2023. The validity of these patents is being challenged in Brazil, and the patents will otherwise expire by May 2014. We have two patent applications (one of which has been opposed by the party challenging our existing Brazilian patents) awaiting examination that, if approved, we expect will permit the Brazilian licensing agreement to continue through at least 2023. If the challenge to our existing Brazilian patents is successful, or if such Brazilian patents expire prior to a new Brazilian patent becoming subject to the Brazilian licensing agreement, and we no longer have any technology licensed under any applicable licensing agreement, we will no longer receive any licensing fees. The loss of these licensing fees would adversely affect our results of operations. We recorded licensing fees of $5.2 million, $5.9 million and $5.8 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Labor disputes with the unionized portion of our workforce could affect us adversely. As of December 31, 2011, we have approximately 1,160 employees in the United States. Approximately 320, or 28 percent, of our domestic employees, principally at our cokemaking operations, are currently represented by the United Steelworkers under various contracts. As of December 31, 2011, we have approximately 210 employees at the cokemaking facility in Vitória, Brazil, all of whom are represented by a union. When these agreements expire or terminate, we may not be able to negotiate the agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. A prolonged labor dispute, which could include a work stoppage, could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our customers’ orders and, as a result, adversely affect our production and profitability. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Coal Mining Business Coal prices are volatile, and a substantial or extended decline in prices could adversely affect our profitability and the value of our coal reserves. Our profitability and the value of our coal reserves depend upon the prices we receive for our coal. The contract prices we may receive for coal in the future depend upon factors beyond our control, including: • the domestic and foreign demand and supply for metallurgical coal; • the quantity and quality of coal available from domestic and foreign competitors; • the demand for steel, which may lead to price fluctuations in the re-pricing of our metallurgical coal contracts; • competition within our industry; • adverse weather, climatic or other natural conditions, including natural disasters; • domestic and foreign economic conditions, including economic slowdowns; • legislative, regulatory and judicial developments, environmental regulatory changes or changes in energy policy and energy conservation measures that would adversely affect the coal industry, such as legislation limiting carbon emissions; and • the proximity, capacity and cost of transportation facilities. A substantial or extended decline in the prices we receive for our future coal sales could adversely affect our profitability and the value of our coal reserves. Extensive governmental regulations pertaining to employee health and safety and mandated benefits for retired coal miners impose significant costs on our mining operations, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The coal mining industry is subject to increasingly strict regulation by federal, state and local authorities with respect to matters such as employee health and safety and mandated benefits for retired coal miners. Compliance with these requirements imposes significant costs on us and can result in reduced productivity. Moreover, the possibility exists that new health and safety legislation and/or regulations and orders may be adopted that may materially and adversely affect our mining operations. We must compensate employees for work-related injuries. If we do not make adequate provisions for our workers’ compensation liabilities, it could harm our future operating results. In addition, the erosion through tort liability of the protections we are currently provided by workers’ compensation laws could increase our liability for work-related injuries and materially and adversely affect our operating results. Under federal law, each coal mine operator must secure payment of federal black lung benefits to claimants who are current and former employees and contribute to a trust fund for the payment of benefits and medical expenses to claimants who last worked in the coal industry before January 1, 1970. The trust fund is funded by an excise tax on coal production. If this tax increases, or if we could no longer pass it on to the purchasers of our coal under our coal sales agreements, our operating costs could be increased and our results could be materially and adversely harmed. At December 31, 2011, our liabilities for coal workers’ black lung benefits totaled $33.5 million, which included the estimated impact of PPACA. If new laws or regulations increase the number and award size of claims, it could materially and adversely harm our business. See “Item 1. Business—Legal and Regulatory Requirements—Other Regulatory Requirements.” Federal or state regulatory agencies have the authority to order our mines to be temporarily or permanently closed under certain circumstances, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to meet our customers’ demands. Federal or state regulatory agencies have the authority under certain circumstances following significant health and safety incidents, such as fatalities, to order a mine to be temporarily or permanently closed. If this 23 Table of Contents occurred, we may be required to incur capital expenditures to re-open the mine and may incur fines. In the event that these agencies order the closing of our mines, our coal sales contracts generally permit us to issue force majeure notices which suspend our obligations to deliver coal under these contracts. However, our customers may challenge our issuances of force majeure notices. If these challenges are successful, we may have to purchase coal from third-party sources, if it is available, to fulfill these obligations, incur capital expenditures to re-open the mines and/or negotiate settlements with the customers, which may include price reductions, the reduction of commitments or the extension of time for delivery or termination of customers’ contracts. Our coal operations also provide substantially all of the coal used at our Jewell cokemaking facility. The inability to deliver the required coal to this facility could significantly impact operations at the facility. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Extensive environmental regulations impose significant costs on our mining operations, and future regulations could materially increase those costs, impose new or increased liabilities, limit our ability to produce and sell coal, or require us to change our operations significantly, any one or more of which could materially and adversely affect our financial position and/or results of operations. Our coal mining operations are subject to increasingly strict regulation by federal, state and local authorities with respect to environmental matters such as: • limitations on land use; • mine permitting and licensing requirements; • reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed; • management of materials generated by mining operations; • the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes; • remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, including with respect to past or legacy mining operations; • air quality standards; • water pollution; • protection of human health, plant-life and wildlife, including endangered or threatened species; • protection of wetlands; • the discharge of materials into the environment; • the effects of mining on surface water and groundwater quality and availability; and • the management of electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with the laws and regulations related to these and other environmental matters can be costly and time-consuming, and could delay commencement or continuation of expansion or production operations. We may not have been, or may not be, at all times in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting production from our operations. We may incur material costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from our operations. If we are pursued for sanctions, costs and liabilities in respect of these matters, our mining operations and, as a result, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. New legislation or administrative regulations or new judicial interpretations or administrative enforcement of existing laws and regulations, including proposals related to the protection of the environment that would 24 Table of Contents further regulate and tax the coal industry, also may require us to change operations significantly, or incur increased costs. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 1. Business—Legal and Regulatory Requirements” for further information about the various governmental regulations affecting us. Our coal mining operations are subject to operating risks, some of which are beyond our control, that could result in a material increase in our operating expenses and a decrease in our production levels. Factors beyond our control could disrupt our coal mining operations, adversely affect production and shipments and increase our operating costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Such factors could include: • poor mining conditions resulting from geological, hydrologic or other conditions that may cause damage to nearby infrastructure or mine personnel; • variations in the thickness and quality of coal seams, and variations in the amounts of rock and other natural materials overlying the coal being mined; • a major incident at a mine site that causes all or part of the operations of the mine to cease for some period of time; • mining, processing and plant equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; • adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains or snow, flooding and other natural events affecting operations, transportation or customers; • unexpected or accidental surface subsidence from underground mining; • accidental mine water discharges, fires, explosions or similar mining accidents; and • competition and/or conflicts with other natural resource extraction activities and production within our operating areas, such as coalbed methane extraction. If any of these conditions or events occur, our coal mining operations may be disrupted, we could experience a delay or halt of production or shipments, operating costs could increase significantly, and we could incur substantial losses. In particular, our Jewell cokemaking facility currently obtains essentially all of its metallurgical coal requirements from our existing coal mining operations. Disruptions in our coal mining operations, resulting in decreased production of metallurgical coal, could seriously and adversely affect production at our Jewell cokemaking facility. If transportation for our coal becomes unavailable or uneconomical for our customers, it may impair our ability to sell coal, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal and the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs and the lack of sufficient rail and port capacity could lead to reduced coal sales. For example, all of our coal mining operations are substantially dependent on, and only have access to, a single rail provider. A substantial amount of the metallurgical coal produced from our coal mining operations is used in our adjacent Jewell cokemaking facility. However, future disruption of transportation services (due to weather-related problems, infrastructure damage, strikes, lock-outs, lack of fuel or maintenance items, underperformance of port and rail infrastructure, congestion and balancing systems used to manage vessel queuing and demurrage, transportation delays or other reasons) may temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to other customers and adversely affect our results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We face numerous uncertainties in estimating economically recoverable coal reserves, and inaccuracies in estimates may result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs and decreased profitability. Our future performance depends on, among other things, the accuracy of our estimates of our proven and probable coal reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of economically recoverable coal reserves, including many factors beyond our control. As a result, estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves are by their nature uncertain. We base our estimates of reserves on engineering, economic and geological data assembled, analyzed and reviewed by internal and third-party engineers and consultants. We update our estimates of the quantity and quality of proven and probable coal reserves as needed to reflect production of coal from the reserves, updated geological models and mining recovery data, tonnage contained in newly acquired lease areas and estimated costs of production and sales prices. There are numerous factors and assumptions that affect economically recoverable reserve estimates, including: • quality of the coal; • historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; • geological and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data and/or may differ from our experiences in areas where we currently mine; • the percentage of coal ultimately recoverable; • the assumed effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits, taxes, including severance and excise taxes and royalties, and other payments to governmental agencies; • assumptions concerning the timing for the development of the reserves; and • assumptions concerning equipment and productivity, future coal prices, operating costs, including costs for critical supplies such as fuel and tires, capital expenditures and development and reclamation costs. Each of these factors may vary considerably. As a result, estimates of the quantities and qualities of economically recoverable coal attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, estimated cost of production, and estimates of future net cash flows expected from these properties as prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary materially due to changes in the foregoing factors and assumptions. Therefore, our estimates may not accurately reflect our actual reserves. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variances may be material. We engaged Marshall Miller & Associates, Inc., a leading mining engineering firm, to conduct a new and comprehensive study to determine our proven and probable reserves for our coal mines. This study determined that we control proven and probable coal reserves of approximately 114 million tons as of December 31, 2011, which was an increase of 8 million tons from December 31, 2010. Any inaccuracy in our estimates related to our reserves could result in decreased profitability from lower than expected revenues and/or higher than expected costs. Our inability to develop coal reserves in an economically feasible manner could materially and adversely affect our business. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue developing economically recoverable coal reserves. If we fail to develop additional coal reserves, our existing reserves eventually will be depleted. We may not be able to obtain replacement reserves when we require them. Replacement reserves may not be available or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. Our ability to develop coal reserves in the future also may be limited by the availability of cash we generate from our operations or available financing, restrictions under our existing or future financing arrangements, the lack of 26 Table of Contents suitable opportunities or the inability to acquire coal properties or leases on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to develop replacement reserves, our future production may decrease significantly and this may have a material and adverse impact on our cash flows, financial position and results of operations. Mining in Central Appalachia is more complex and involves more regulatory constraints than mining in other areas of the United States, which could affect our mining operations and cost structures in these areas. Our coal mines are located in Virginia and West Virginia, in what is known as the Central Appalachian region. The geological characteristics of Central Appalachian coal reserves, such as coal seam thickness, make them complex and costly to mine. As compared to mines in other regions, permitting, licensing and other environmental and regulatory requirements are more costly and time consuming to satisfy. These factors could materially adversely affect the mining operations and cost structures of coal produced at our mines in Central Appalachia. A defect in title or the loss of a leasehold interest in certain property could limit our ability to mine our coal reserves or result in significant unanticipated costs. We conduct a significant part of our coal mining operations on properties that we lease. A title defect or the loss of a lease could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated coal reserves. We may not verify title to our leased properties or associated coal reserves until we have committed to developing those properties or coal reserves. In some cases, the seller or lessor warrants property title. In other cases, separate title confirmation may not be required for leasing reserves where mining has occurred previously. Our right to mine some of our reserves may be adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist, or if our leasehold interests are subject to superior property rights of third parties. In order to conduct our mining operations on properties where such defects exist, we may incur unanticipated costs. In addition, some leases require us to produce a minimum quantity of coal and require us to pay minimum production royalties. Our inability to satisfy those requirements may cause the leasehold interest to terminate. In addition, we may not be able to successfully negotiate new leases for properties containing additional reserves, or maintain our leasehold interests in properties where we have not commenced mining operations during the term of the lease. Disruptions in the quantities of coal produced by our contract mine operators could impair our ability to fill customer orders or increase our operating costs. We use independent contractors to mine coal at certain of our mining operations. Some of our contract miners may experience adverse geologic mining conditions, operational difficulties, escalated costs, financial difficulties or other factors beyond our control that could affect the availability, pricing and quality of coal produced for us. In addition, market volatility and price increases for coal or freight could result in non-performance by third-party suppliers under existing contracts with us, in order to take advantage of the higher prices in the current market. Disruptions in the quantities of coal produced by independent contractors for us could impair our ability to supply our cokemaking facilities and to fill our customer orders. Our profitability or exposure to loss on transactions or relationships such as these depends upon the reliability of the supply or the ability to substitute, when economical, third-party coal sources, with internal production or coal purchased in the market and other factors. Non-performance by contract miners may adversely affect our ability to fulfill deliveries under our coal supply agreements. If we are unable to fill a customer order, or if we are required to purchase coal from other sources in order to satisfy a customer order, we could lose existing customers and our operating costs could increase. We require a skilled workforce to run our coal mining business. If we or our contractors cannot hire qualified people to meet replacement or expansion needs, our labor costs may increase and we may not be able to achieve planned results. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled workers in multiple disciplines, including experienced foremen, electricians, equipment operators, engineers and welders, among 27 Table of Contents others. In 2011, we experienced lower productivity due to continued tightness in the Appalachian labor market and higher employee costs related to training costs and bonus and retention payments. Our future success depends greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. We have an aging workforce, and an extended effort to recruit new employees to replace those who retire or a sustained shortage of skilled labor in the areas in which we operate could make it difficult to meet our staffing needs or result in higher labor rates. We also may be forced to hire novice miners, who are required to be accompanied by experienced workers as a safety precaution. These measures could adversely affect our productivity and operating costs. A lack of qualified people also may affect companies that we use to perform certain specialized work. If we or our contractors cannot find enough qualified workers, it may delay completion of projects and increase our costs. We have reclamation and mine closure obligations. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are inaccurate, we may be required to expend significantly greater amounts than anticipated. The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act established operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as most aspects of deep mining. We accrue for the costs of current mine disturbance and of final mine closure, including the cost of treating mine water discharge where necessary. The amounts recorded are dependent upon a number of variables, including the estimated future retirement costs, estimated proven reserves, assumptions involving profit margins, inflation rates, and the assumed credit-adjusted risk-free interest rates. Furthermore, our reclamation and mine-closing liabilities are unfunded. If these accruals are insufficient, or our cash requirements in a particular year are greater than currently anticipated, our future operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our failure to obtain or renew surety bonds on acceptable terms could materially and adversely affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations and, therefore, our ability to mine or lease coal. Our reclamation and mine-closing liabilities are unfunded. Federal and state laws require us to obtain surety bonds to secure performance or payment of certain long-term obligations, such as mine closure or reclamation costs, federal and state workers’ compensation costs, coal leases and other obligations. These bonds are typically renewable annually. Surety bond issuers and holders may not continue to renew the bonds or may demand higher fees, additional collateral, including letters of credit or other terms less favorable to us upon those renewals. We are also subject to increases in the amount of surety bonds required by federal and state laws as these laws, or interpretations of these laws, change. Because we are required by state and federal law to have these bonds in place before mining can commence or continue, our failure to maintain (or inability to acquire) these bonds would have a material and adverse impact on us. That failure could result from a variety of factors, including the following: lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new bonds; restrictions on availability of collateral for current and future third-party surety bond issuers under the terms of future indebtedness; our inability to meet certain financial tests with respect to a portion of the post-mining reclamation bonds; and the exercise by third-party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew or issue new bonds. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock or securities or instruments that are convertible into our capital stock, which could reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of options, shares that may be issued to satisfy our obligations under our incentive plans, shares of our authorized but unissued preferred stock and securities and instruments that are convertible into our common stock. Issuances of common stock or voting preferred stock would reduce your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote and, in the case of issuances of preferred stock, likely would result in your interest in us being subject to the prior rights of holders of that preferred stock. 28 Table of Contents We have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, so you may not receive funds without selling your common stock. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock are limited by restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, and will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. Further, we may not have sufficient surplus under Delaware law to be able to pay any dividends in the future. The absence of sufficient surplus may result from extraordinary cash expenses, actual expenses exceeding contemplated costs, funding of capital expenditures or increases in reserves. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include: • a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; • action by written consent of stockholders may only be taken unanimously by holders of all our shares of common stock; • rules regarding how our stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; • the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; • limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors; and • limitations on our ability to be acquired. The DGCL also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. We believe that these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is in our best interests and that of our stockholders. Any or all of the foregoing provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Separation from Sunoco We have a limited operating history as a separate public company, and our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly-traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. Our historical financial information for the periods ended prior to the Separation included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Sunoco. 29 Table of Contents Accordingly, the historical financial information included here do not necessarily reflect the results of operations, financial position and cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly-traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the following factors: • Prior to the Separation, our business was operated by Sunoco as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. Sunoco or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to, legal services, treasury, accounting, auditing, risk management, information technology, human resources, corporate affairs, tax administration, certain governance functions (including internal audit and compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) and external reporting. Our historical financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Sunoco for these and similar functions. These allocations are likely less than the comparable expenses we believe we would have incurred had we operated as a separate public company. • Previously, our business was integrated with the other businesses of Sunoco. Historically, we have shared economies of scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. While we entered into transition agreements with Sunoco in connection with the Separation that govern certain commercial and other relationships between us, those transitional arrangements may not fully capture the benefits our businesses have enjoyed as a result of being integrated with the other businesses of Sunoco. The loss of these benefits could have an adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position and results of operations. • Generally, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, research and development and capital expenditures, have historically been satisfied as part of the enterprise-wide cash management policies of Sunoco. In connection with the Separation and the IPO, we obtained financing in the form of our credit facilities and notes. In the future, we may need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements. • The cost of capital for our business may be higher than Sunoco’s cost of capital prior to the Separation. Other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a public company separate from Sunoco. The adjustments and allocations we have made in preparing our historical Combined and Consolidated Financial Statements may not appropriately reflect our operations during those periods as if we had in fact operated as a stand-alone entity, or what the actual effect of our Separation from Sunoco will be. We may experience increased costs resulting from a decrease in the purchasing power as a result of our Separation from Sunoco. Historically, we have been able to take advantage of Sunoco’s size and purchasing power in procuring goods, technology and services, including insurance, employee benefit support and audit services. We are a smaller and less diversified company than Sunoco, and we may not have access to financial and other resources comparable to those available to Sunoco prior to the Separation. As a separate, stand-alone company, we may be unable to obtain goods, technology and services at prices and on terms as favorable as those available to us prior to the Separation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Separation may adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the Separation. We may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the Separation, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. These benefits include the following: • improving strategic planning, increasing management focus and streamlining decision-making by providing the flexibility to implement our strategic plan and to respond more effectively to different customer needs and the changing economic environment; 30 Table of Contents • allowing us to adopt the capital structure, investment policy and dividend policy best suited to our financial profile and business needs, as well as resolving competition for capital among Sunoco’s businesses; • creating an independent equity structure that will facilitate our ability to effect future acquisitions utilizing our common stock; and • facilitating incentive compensation arrangements for employees more directly tied to the performance of our business, and enhancing employee hiring and retention by, among other things, improving the alignment of management and employee incentives with performance and growth objectives. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons. There also can be no assurance that the Separation will not adversely affect our business. If there is a determination that the Distribution is taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) private letter ruling or tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, then Sunoco and its shareholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities and we could incur significant liabilities. Sunoco has received a private letter ruling from the IRS, substantially to the effect that, among other things, the contribution and the distribution qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, Sunoco has received an opinion of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, counsel to Sunoco, to the effect that the contribution and the distribution will qualify as a transaction that is described in Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. The ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Sunoco and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Sunoco and its shareholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinion of tax counsel, the IRS could determine on audit that the Separation is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of Sunoco or us after the Separation. If the Separation is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Sunoco and its shareholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities and we could incur significant liabilities. See Note 8 to the Combined and Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the sharing of such liabilities between Sunoco and us. As a public company, we are subject to additional financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy and may divert management’s attention from our business. As a public company, we are required to file annual and quarterly reports and other information pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) with the SEC. We are required to prepare financial statements that comply with SEC reporting requirements on a timely basis. We are also subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including the NYSE listing standards and certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, which impose significant compliance obligations upon us. As a public company, we are required to commit significant resources and management oversight to such requirements, which may cause us to incur significant costs and which may place a strain on our systems and resources. As a result, our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns. In addition, we might not be successful in implementing these requirements. As is further described in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,” Sunoco’s management believes that it has remediated the previously identified material weakness and, that, as of December 31, 2011, Sunoco’s internal control over financial reporting was effective. However, we have not yet tested our internal control over financial 31 Table of Contents reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we are unable to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to report on the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and may suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violations of NYSE listing standards. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. To preserve the tax-free treatment to Sunoco of the contribution and the Distribution, we may not be able to engage in certain transactions. To preserve the tax-free treatment to Sunoco of the contribution and the Distribution, under the tax sharing agreement we are restricted from taking any action that prevents the Distribution and related transactions from being tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or engage in other transactions, including use of our common stock to make acquisitions and equity capital market transactions, that might increase the value of our business. See Note 8 to the Combined and Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 