Risk Factors—A negative audit or other actions by the U.S. government could adversely affect our operating performance.” At any given time, many of our contracts are under review by the DCAA and other government agencies. We cannot predict the outcome of such ongoing audits and what, if any, impact such audits may have on our future operating performance. Over the last few years, U.S. Government contractors, including our Company, have seen a trend of increased oversight by the DCAA and other U.S. Government agencies. If any of our internal control systems are determined to be non-compliant or inadequate, payments may be suspended under our contracts or we may be subjected to increased government oversight that could delay or adversely affect our ability to invoice and receive timely payment on our contracts, perform contracts or compete for contracts with the U.S. Government. These adverse outcomes could also occur if the DCAA cannot complete timely periodic reviews of our control systems, which could then render the status of these systems as “not reviewed.” Sales and Marketing We provide our service solutions to a wide array of customers which include multiple departments and agencies within the U.S. government, select international customers and commercial customers. We also provide our services to other prime contractors who have contracts with the U.S. government and other international customers where our capabilities help to deliver comprehensive solutions. We position our business development and marketing professionals to cover key accounts such as the DoS and the DoD, as well as other international and commercial market segments which hold the most promise for aggressive growth and profitability. We participate in national and international tradeshows, particularly as they apply to aviation services, logistics, contingency support, defense, diplomacy and development markets. We are also an active member in several organizations related to services contracting, such as the Professional Services Council. As a global service solutions provider, we have unique experience and capability in providing value-added and full spectrum services to government agencies and selected partners worldwide. Our business development and marketing professionals maintain close relationships with all existing customers while continuing to aggressively pursue adjacent markets to maximize growth opportunities. These activities support our objective to be the leading global government services provider in support of U.S. national security and foreign policy objectives. Intellectual Property We hold an exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, worldwide, royalty-free and fully paid license to use the “Dyn International” and “DynCorp International” names in connection with aviation services, security services, technical services and marine services. We also own various licenses for names associated with Phoenix and Casals. Additionally, we own various registered domain names, patents, trademarks and copyrights. Because most of our business involves providing services to government entities, our operations generally are not substantially dependent upon obtaining and/or maintaining copyright, patents, or trademark protections, although our operations make use of such protections and benefit from them. Environmental Matters Our operations include the use, generation and disposal of petroleum products and other hazardous materials. We are subject to various U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, 10 Table of Contents including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites and the maintenance of a safe and healthy workplace for our employees, contractors and visitors. We have written procedures in place and believe we have been and are in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and we have no liabilities under environmental requirements that would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have not incurred, nor do we expect to incur, material costs relating to environmental compliance. Employees As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 29,000 personnel located in approximately 35 countries in which we have operations, of which approximately 5,900 are employees of our affiliates. Employees represented by labor unions totaled approximately 2,900. We believe the working relations with our employees and our unions are in good standing. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks described below should be carefully considered, together with all of the other information contained in this Form 10-K including Part II—Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We rely on sales to U.S. government entities. A loss of contracts, a failure to obtain new contracts or a reduction of sales or award fees under existing contracts with the U.S. government could adversely affect our operating performance and our ability to generate cash flow to fund our operations. We derive substantially all of our revenue from contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. government and its agencies, primarily the DoD and the DoS. The remainder of our revenue is derived from commercial contracts and contracts with foreign governments. We expect that U.S. government contracts, particularly with the DoD and the DoS, will continue to be our primary source of revenue for the foreseeable future. The continuation and renewal of our existing government contracts and new government contracts are, among other things, contingent upon the availability of adequate funding for various U.S. government agencies, including the DoD and the DoS. Changes in U.S. government spending could directly affect our operating performance and lead to an unexpected loss of revenue. The loss or significant reduction in government funding of a large program in which we participate could also result in a material decrease to our future projections of sales, earnings and cash flows. U.S. government contracts are also conditioned upon the continuing approval by Congress of the amount of necessary spending. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a September 30 fiscal year basis, even though contract periods of performance may extend over many years. Consequently, at the beginning of a major program, the contract is usually partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as appropriations are made by Congress for future fiscal years. Among the factors that could impact U.S. government spending and reduce our U.S. Government contracting business include: • policy and/or spending changes implemented by the Obama administration; • continued budget reductions in military spending and the CR imposed by Congress; • a continual decline in, or reapportioning of, spending by the U.S. government, in general, or by the DoD or the DoS, in particular; • changes, delays or cancellations of U.S. government programs, requirements or policies; • the adoption of new laws or regulations that affect companies that provide services to the U.S. government; • U.S. government shutdowns or other delays in the government appropriations process; • curtailment of the U.S. government’s outsourcing of services to private contractors including the expansion of insourcing; changes in the political climate, including with regard to the funding or operation of the services we provide; and • general economic conditions, including the continual slowdown in the economy or unstable economic conditions in the United States or in the countries in which we operate. These or other factors could cause U.S. government agencies to reduce their purchases under our contracts, to exercise their right to terminate our contracts in whole or in part, to issue temporary stop-work orders or to decline to exercise options to renew our contracts. The loss or significant curtailment of our material government contracts, or our failure to renew existing contracts or enter into new contracts, could adversely affect our operating performance and lead to an unexpected loss of revenue. 11 Table of Contents Our U.S. government contracts may be terminated by the U.S. government at any time prior to their completion and contain other unfavorable provisions, which could lead to an unexpected loss of revenue and a reduction in backlog. Under the terms of our contracts, the U.S. government may unilaterally: • terminate or modify existing contracts; • reduce the value of existing contracts through partial termination; • delay or withhold the payment of our invoices by government payment offices; • audit our contract-related costs and fees; and • suspend us from receiving new contracts, pending the resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations. The U.S. government can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and adversely affect our operating performance and lead to an unexpected loss of revenue. The nature of our business sometimes requires us to begin new work or extend work under an existing contract at the request of our customer before a formal contract or contract modification has been executed. In such situations, we have a long history of successfully obtaining a formal contract or contract modification from our customer; however, work performed in such situations involves some risk that we may be unsuccessful in reaching final agreement with our customer. In the event we are unsuccessful in reaching an agreement with our customer, we may be required to submit a request for equitable adjustment or a formal claim. This process can take substantial time and may ultimately be unsuccessful in allowing us to bill and collect any associated fees earned on work performed in such situations, including base fees or award fees, which could result in lower revenue and could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our U.S. government contracts typically have an initial term of one year with multiple option periods, exercisable at the discretion of the government at previously negotiated prices. The government is not obligated to exercise any option under a contract. Furthermore, the government is typically required to compete all programs and, therefore, may not automatically renew a contract. In addition, at the time of completion of any of our government contracts, the contract is frequently required to be re-competed if the government still requires the services covered by the contract. If the U.S. government terminates and/or materially modifies any of our contracts or if option periods are not exercised, our failure to replace revenue generated from such contracts would result in lower revenue and would likely adversely affect our earnings, which could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our U.S. government contracts are subject to competitive bidding, both upon initial issuance and re-competition. If we are unable to successfully compete in the bidding process or if we fail to win re-competitions, it could adversely affect our operating performance and lead to an unexpected loss of revenue. Substantially all of our U.S. government contracts are awarded through a competitive bidding process upon initial award and renewal, and we expect that this will continue to be the case. There is often significant competition and pricing pressure as a result of this process. The competitive bidding process presents a number of risks, including the following: • we may expend substantial funds and time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may ultimately be awarded to one of our competitors; • we may be unable to accurately estimate the resources and costs that will be required to perform any contract we are awarded, which could result in substantial cost overruns; and • we may encounter expense and delay if our competitors protest or challenge awards of contracts, and any such protest or challenge could result in a requirement to resubmit bids on modified specifications or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. Additionally, the protest of contracts awarded to us may result in the delay of program performance and the generation of revenue while the protest is pending. The government contracts for which we compete typically have multiple option periods, and if we fail to win a contract or a task order, we generally will be unable to compete again for that contract for several years. If we fail to win new contracts or to receive renewal contracts upon re-competition, it may result in additional costs and expenses and possible loss of revenue, and we will not have an opportunity to compete for these contract opportunities again until such contracts expire. Because of the nature of our business, it is not unusual for us to lose contracts to competitors or to gain contracts once held by competitors during re-compete periods. Additionally, some contracts simply end as projects are completed or funding is terminated. We have included our most significant contracts by reportable segment in our key contract table under the heading “Business.” Contract end dates are included within the tables to better inform interested parties, security analysts and institutional investors in reviewing the potential impact on our most significant contracts for this risk. 12 Table of Contents Economic conditions could impact our business. Our business may be adversely affected by factors in the U.S. and other countries that are beyond our control, such as disruptions in the financial markets or downturns in the economic activity in specific countries or regions, or in the various industries in which we operate. These factors could have an adverse impact in the availability of capital and cost of capital, interest rates, tax rates, or regulations in certain jurisdictions. If for any reason we lose access to our currently available lines of credit, or if we are required to raise additional capital, we may be unable to do so in the current credit and stock market environment, or we may be able to do so only on unfavorable terms. Adverse changes to financial conditions could jeopardize certain counterparty obligations, including those of our insurers and financial institutions. In particular, if the U.S. Government, due to budgetary considerations, fails to sustain the troops in Afghanistan, reduces the DoD Operations and Maintenance budget or reduces funding for DoS initiatives in which we participate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Appropriations can also be affected by legislation that addresses larger budgetary issues of the U.S. Government. Examples include the Budget Control Act of 2011 (“BCA”) and its sequestration provisions which will, unless amended, significantly reduce appropriations below currently forecasted levels for most federal agencies, including the DoD, and legislation to raise the debt ceiling for the U.S. Government. Furthermore, although we believe that our current sources of liquidity will enable us to continue to perform under our existing contracts and further grow our business, we cannot ensure that will be the case. A credit crisis could adversely affect our ability to obtain additional liquidity or refinance existing indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional discussion regarding liquidity. Our operations involve considerable risks and hazards. An accident or incident involving our employees or third parties could harm our reputation, affect our ability to compete for business, and if not adequately insured or indemnified, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to liabilities that arise from the services we provide. Such liabilities may relate to an accident or incident involving our employees or third parties, particularly where we are deployed on-site at active military installations or in locations experiencing political or civil unrest, or they may relate to an accident or incident involving aircraft or other equipment we have serviced or used in the course of our business. Any of these types of accidents or incidents could involve significant potential claims of injured employees and other third parties and claims relating to loss of or damage to government or third-party property. We maintain insurance policies that mitigate risk and potential liabilities related to our operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover those claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. Substantial claims in excess of our related insurance coverage could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenue. Furthermore, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, may result in negative publicity which could adversely affect our reputation among our customers, including our government customers, and the public, which could result in the loss of existing and future contracts or make it more difficult to compete effectively for future contracts. This could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenue. Political destabilization or insurgency in the regions in which we operate may have a material adverse effect on our operating performance. Certain regions in which we operate are highly unstable. Insurgent activities in the areas in which we operate may cause further destabilization in these regions. There can be no assurance that the regions in which we operate will continue to be stable enough to allow us to operate profitably or at all. Insurgents in Iraq and Afghanistan have targeted installations where we have personnel, and these insurgents have contributed to instability in these countries. This could impair our ability to attract and deploy personnel to perform services in either or both locations. In addition, we may be required to increase compensation to our personnel as an incentive to deploy them to these regions. Historically we have been able to recover this added cost under our contracts, but there is no guarantee that future increases, if required, will be able to be transferred to our customers through our contracts. To the extent that we are unable to transfer such increased compensation costs to our customers, our operating margins would be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our operating performance. In addition, increased insurgent activities or destabilization, including civil unrest or a civil war in Iraq or Afghanistan, may lead to a determination by the U.S. government to halt or substantially reduce our operations in a particular location, country or region and to perform the services using military personnel. Furthermore, in extreme circumstances, the U.S. government may decide to terminate all or substantially reduce U.S. government activities, including our operations under U.S. 13 Table of Contents government contracts in a particular location, country or region and to withdraw all or a substantial number of military personnel. Congressional pressure to reduce, if not eliminate, the number of U.S. troops in Iraq or Afghanistan may also lead to U.S. government procurement actions that reduce or terminate the services and support we provide in that theater of conflict. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional costs and loss of revenue. We are exposed to risks associated with operating internationally. A large portion of our business is conducted internationally. Consequently, we are subject to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including the following: • export controls regulations that could erode profit margins or restrict exports; • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act; • the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws, treaties and technical standards and changes in those regulations; • contract award and funding delays; • potential restrictions on transfers of funds; • foreign currency fluctuations; • foreign adjustments associated with uncertain tax benefits; • import and export duties and value added taxes; • transportation delays and interruptions; • uncertainties arising from foreign local business practices and cultural considerations; • requirements by foreign governments that we locally invest a minimum level as part of our contracts with them, which may not yield any return; and • potential military conflicts, civil strife and political risks. We cannot ensure our current adopted measures will reduce the potential impact of losses resulting from the risks of our foreign business. Our IDIQ contracts are not firm orders for services, and we may never receive revenue from these contracts, which could adversely affect our operating performance. Many of our government contracts are IDIQ contracts, which are often awarded to multiple contractors. The award of an IDIQ contract does not represent a firm order for services. Generally, under an IDIQ contract, the government is not obligated to order a minimum of services or supplies from its contractor, irrespective of the total estimated contract value. Furthermore, under an IDIQ contract, the customer develops requirements for task orders that are competitively bid against all of the contract awardees, usually under a best-value approach. However, many contracts also permit the government customer to direct work to a specific contractor. We may not win new task orders under these contracts for various reasons, such as failing to rapidly deploy personnel or high prices, which would have an adverse effect on our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and loss of revenue. There can be no assurance that our existing IDIQ contracts will result in actual revenue during any particular period or at all. Our cost of performing under time-and-materials and fixed-price contracts may exceed our revenue, which would result in a recorded loss on the contracts. Our government contract services have three distinct pricing structures: cost-reimbursement, time-and-materials and fixed-price. With cost-reimbursement contracts, so long as actual costs incurred are within the contract funding and allowable under the terms of the contract, we are entitled to reimbursement of the costs plus a stipulated fixed-fee and, in some cases, an incentive-based award fee. We assume additional financial risk on time-and-materials and fixed-price contracts, because of the stipulated prices or negotiated hourly/daily rates. As such, if we do not accurately estimate ultimate costs and control costs during performance of the work, we could lose money on a particular contract or have lower than anticipated margins. Also, we assume the risk of damage or loss to government property, and we are responsible for third-party claims under fixed-price contracts. The failure to meet contractually defined performance standards may result in a loss of a particular contract or lower-than-anticipated margins. This could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional costs and possible loss of revenue. 14 Table of Contents A negative audit or other actions by the U.S. government could adversely affect our operating performance. At any given time, many of our contracts are under review by the DCAA, the DCMA and other government agencies. These agencies review our contract performance, cost structure, and/or compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Such agency audits may include contracts under which we have performed services in Iraq and Afghanistan under especially demanding circumstances. The government agencies also review the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies, including our Accounting, Purchasing, Property, Estimating, Earned Value Management and Material Management System. Given the continued oversight by the U.S. government, we could be subjected to additional regulatory requirements which could require additional audits at various points within our contracting process. An adverse finding under an audit could result in a recommendation of disallowed costs under a U.S. contract, termination of a U.S. government contract, forfeiture of profits or suspension of payments which could negatively impact our liquidity position and affect our ability to invoice and receive timely payment on our contracts, perform contracts or compete for contracts with the U.S. government. These adverse outcomes could also occur if the DCAA cannot complete timely periodic reviews of our control systems, which could then render the status of these systems as “not current” and result in an adverse audit. See Note 9 to the Delta Tucker Holdings, Inc. consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are subject to investigation by government agencies, which could result in our inability to receive government contracts and could adversely affect our future operating performance. As a U.S. government contractor operating domestically and internationally, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to U.S. government contracting, as well as domestic and international laws. From time to time, we are investigated by government agencies with respect to our compliance with these laws and regulations. If we are found to be in violation of the law, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including contract termination, the assessment of penalties and suspension or prohibition from doing business with U.S. government agencies. For example, many of the contracts we perform in the U.S. are subject to the Service Contract Act, which requires hourly employees to be paid certain specified wages and benefits. If the U.S. Department of Labor determines that we violated the Service Contract Act or its implemented regulations, we could be suspended from being awarded new government contracts or renewals of existing contracts for a period of time, which could adversely affect our future operating performance. We are subject to a greater risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities than companies with solely commercial customers. In addition, if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. Furthermore, our reputation could suffer serious harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. If we were suspended or prohibited from contracting with the U.S. government, or any significant U.S. government agency, if our reputation or relationship with U.S. government agencies was impaired or if the U.S. government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, it could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenue. U.S. government contractors like us that provide support services in theaters of conflict such as Iraq and Afghanistan have come under increased oversight by the agency of inspectors general, government auditors and congressional committees. Investigations pursued by any or all of these groups may result in adverse publicity for us and consequent reputational harm, regardless of the underlying merit of the allegations being investigated. As a matter of general policy, we have cooperated and expect to continue to cooperate with government inquiries of this nature. New government withholding regulations could adversely affect our operating performance. In February 2012, the DoD issued the final DFARS rule which allows withholding of a percentage of payments when a contractor’s business system has one or more significant deficiencies. The DFARS rule applies to Cost Accounting Standards (“CAS”) covered contracts that have the DFARS clause in the contract terms and conditions. The final rule represents a significant change in the contracting environment for companies performing work for the DoD. Contracting officers may withhold 5% of contract payments for one or more significant deficiencies in any single contractor business system or up 10% of contract payments for significant deficiencies in multiple contractor business systems. A significant deficiency is defined as a “shortcoming in the system that materially affects the ability of officials of the DoD to rely upon information produced by the system that is needed for management purposes.” The final rule is applicable to new DoD contracts awarded after February 2012. The expiration of our collective bargaining agreements could result in increased operating costs or work disruptions, which could potentially affect our operating performance. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 29,000 personnel, of which approximately 5,900 are employees of our affiliates. Employees represented by labor unions totaled approximately 2,900. As of December 31, 2012, we had 15 Table of Contents approximately 21 collective bargaining agreements with these unions. The length of these agreements varies, with the longest expiring in March 2014. There can be no assurance that we will not experience labor disruptions associated with the expiration or renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements or otherwise. We could experience a significant disruption of operations and increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members, which could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenue. Proceedings against us in domestic and foreign courts could result in legal costs and adverse monetary judgments, adversely affecting our operating performance and causing harm to our reputation. We are involved in various domestic and foreign claims and lawsuits from time to time. For example, we are a defendant in two consolidated lawsuits seeking unspecified damages brought by citizens and certain provinces of Ecuador. The basis for the actions was pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia; however, on March 18, 2013 the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. The basis for the actions, arises from our performance of a DoS contract for the eradication of narcotic plant crops in Colombia. The lawsuits allege personal injury, property damage and wrongful death as a consequence of the spraying of narcotic crops along the Colombian border adjacent to Ecuador. In the event that a court decides against us, in these lawsuits, and we are unable to obtain indemnification from the U.S. Government, or contributions from the other defendants, we may incur substantial costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results. An adverse ruling in these cases could also adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our ability to win future government contracts. Other litigation in which we are involved includes wrongful termination and other adverse employment actions, breach of contract, personal injury and property damage actions filed by third parties. Actions involving third-party liability claims generally are covered by insurance; however, in the event our insurance coverage is inadequate to cover such claims, we will be forced to bear the costs arising from a judgment. We do not have insurance coverage for breach of contract actions, and we bear all costs associated with such litigation and claims. See Note 9 to the Delta Tucker Holdings, Inc. consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are subject to certain U.S. laws and regulations, which are the subject of rigorous enforcement by the U.S. government; our noncompliance with such laws and regulations could adversely affect our future operating performance. We may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act, which could include claims for treble damages. Government contract violations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties or sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, and/or suspension of payment, any of which could make us lose our status as an eligible government contractor. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation. Any interruption or termination of our government contractor status could significantly reduce our future revenue and profits. To the extent that we export products, technical data and services outside the United States, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including but not limited to, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Department of the Treasury. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in civil and/or criminal sanctions, including the imposition of fines upon us as well as the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts. We do business in certain parts of the world that have experienced, or may be susceptible to, governmental corruption. Our corporate policy requires strict compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act and with local laws prohibiting payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. Improper actions by our employees or agents could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, as well as disgorgement, and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. Competition in our industry could limit our ability to attract and retain customers or employees, which could result in a loss of revenue and/or a reduction in margins, which could adversely affect our operating performance. We compete with various entities across geographic and business lines. Competitors of our operating segment are typically various solution providers that compete in any one of the service areas provided by those business units. Additionally, competitors of our operating segments are typically large defense service contractors that offer services associated with maintenance, training and other activities. Competitors of our GLS operating segment are typically contractors that provide services in Iraq and Afghanistan or companies that provide language interpretation and translation services both domestically and internationally. We compete based on a number of factors, including our broad range of services, geographic reach, mobility and response time. Foreign competitors may obtain an advantage over us in competing for U.S. government contracts and attracting employees. We are required by U.S. laws and regulations to remit to the U.S. government statutory payroll withholding amounts for U.S. nationals working on U.S. government contracts while employed by our majority-owned foreign subsidiaries, since foreign competitors may not be similarly obligated by their governments. 16 Table of Contents Some of our competitors may have greater resources or are otherwise better positioned to compete for contract opportunities. For example, original equipment manufacturers that also provide aftermarket support services have a distinct advantage in obtaining service contracts for aircraft they have manufactured, as they frequently have better access to replacement and service parts, as well as an existing technical understanding of the platform they have manufactured. In addition, we are at a disadvantage when bidding for contracts up for re-competition for which we are not the incumbent provider, because incumbent providers are frequently able to capitalize on customer relationships, technical knowledge and pricing experience gained from their prior service. In addition to the competition we face in bidding for contracts and task orders, we must also compete to attract the skilled and experienced personnel integral to our continued operations. We hire from a limited pool of potential employees as military and law enforcement experience, specialized technical skill sets and security clearances are prerequisites for many positions. Our failure to compete effectively for employees, or excessive attrition among our skilled personnel, could reduce our ability to satisfy our customers’ needs and increase the costs and time required to perform our contractual obligations. This could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenue. Loss of our skilled personnel, including members of senior management, may have an adverse effect on our operations and/or our operating performance. Our continued success depends in large part on our ability to recruit and retain the skilled personnel necessary to serve our customers effectively, including personnel with extensive military and law enforcement training and backgrounds. The proper execution of our contract objectives depends upon the availability of quality resources, especially qualified personnel. Given the nature of our business, we have substantial need for personnel who are willing to work overseas, frequently in locations experiencing political or civil unrest, for extended periods of time and often on short notice. We may not be able to meet the need for qualified personnel as such need arises. In addition, we must comply with provisions in U.S. government contracts that require employment of persons with specified work experience and security clearances. An inability to maintain employees with the required security clearances could have a material adverse effect on our ability to win new business and satisfy our existing contractual obligations, could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenue. The loss of services of any of the members of our senior management could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement can be found. There may be a limited number of personnel with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and we may be unable to locate and employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms. If our subcontractors or joint venture partners fail to perform their contractual obligations, then our performance as the prime contractor and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. Many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services we must provide to our customers. These subcontractors generally perform niche or specialty services for which they have more direct experience, such as construction, catering services or specialized technical services. These subcontractors have local knowledge of the region in which we will be performing along with the ability to communicate with local nationals and assist in making arrangements for commencement of performance. Often, we enter into subcontract arrangements in order to meet government requirements to award certain categories of services to small businesses. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations as the prime contractor. Such subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability and adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenue. We often enter into joint ventures so that we can jointly bid and perform on a particular project. The success of these and other joint ventures depends, in large part, on the satisfactory performance of the contractual obligations by our joint venture partners. If our partners do not meet their obligations, the joint ventures may be unable to adequately perform and deliver their contracted services. Under these circumstances, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services. These additional obligations could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses for us with respect to the joint venture, which could also affect our reputation in the industries we serve. Environmental laws and regulations may subject us to significant costs and liabilities that could adversely affect our operating performance. We are subject to numerous environmental, legal and regulatory requirements related to our operations worldwide. In the U.S., these laws and regulations include those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the maintenance of a safe workplace, primarily associated with our aviation services activities, including painting aircraft and handling substances that may qualify as hazardous waste, such as used batteries and petroleum products. In addition to U.S. federal laws and regulations, states and other countries where we do business have numerous environmental, legal and regulatory requirements by which we must abide. We could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, as a result of 17 Table of Contents violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. This could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenue. Acquisition transactions require substantial management resources and may disrupt our business and divert our management from other responsibilities. Acquisitions are accompanied by other risks, including: • the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies; • the inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful incorporation of acquired personnel into our programs; • we may not realize anticipated synergies or financial growth; • we may assume material liabilities that were not identified during due diligence, including potential regulatory penalties resulting from the acquisition target’s previous activities; • difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, with respect to accounting matters and otherwise; • the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies; • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management and operational structure; and • acquisitions may require us to invest significant amounts of cash resulting in dilution of stockholder value. Any inability to successfully integrate the operations and personnel associated with an acquired business and/or service line may harm our business and results of operations. If we fail to manage acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions successfully, our financial results, business, and future prospects could be harmed. In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets, and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, and equity investments. We seek to identify acquisition or investment opportunities that will expand or complement our existing services, or customer base, at attractive valuations. We often compete with others for the same opportunities. To be successful, we must conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies, negotiate transaction terms, complete and close complex transactions, and manage post-closing matters (e.g., integrate acquired companies and employees, realize anticipated operating synergies, and improve margins) efficiently and effectively. Acquisition, divestiture, joint venture, and investment transactions often require substantial management resources and could have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. Additionally, unidentified pre-closing liabilities could affect our future financial results. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles could have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations. We prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. A disruption, infiltration or failure of network, application systems or third-party hosted services in the event of a major earthquake, hurricane, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, software or hardware malfunctions, cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, loss of intellectual property, delays in our ability to provide service to our customers, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security and loss of critical data and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders, which could result in reduced revenue. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including physical and cyber security threats, and other disruptions. As a defense contractor, we face both physical and cyber security threats to our sensitive systems and information. Although we utilize a variety of technical and administrative controls to mitigate and detect threats, there can be no assurance that these controls will be sufficient to prevent a threat from materializing. Threats to our physical security, were they to manifest, could result in degradation or disruption of business operations. These effects could be attributed to, although not exclusively, loss of staff, reduction in staff productivity, and/or loss or damage to facilities. 18 Table of Contents Cyber security threats are constantly evolving, and our industry is frequently targeted by cyber security threats. We utilize a variety of mechanisms and controls to adapt to potential threats; however, the variety and constant change of these threats leaves the impact unpredictable. Were an incident to occur, it could lead to loss of confidentiality, integrity, and/or availability of information or systems, harm to personnel or infrastructure, and/or damage to our reputation. Such an incident could result in material adverse effect on our business operations and strategies, current or future financial position, and/or cash flows. Goodwill represents a significant asset on our balance sheet and may become impaired. Goodwill is a significant asset on our balance sheet, with an aggregate balance of $604.1 million as of December 31, 2012. We assess goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually in October and when an event occurs or circumstances change that would suggest a triggering event. If a triggering event is identified, a step one assessment is performed to identify any possible goodwill impairment in the period in which the event is identified. The annual impairment test requires us to determine the fair value of our reporting units in comparison to their carrying values. A decline in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in a goodwill impairment, and a related non-cash impairment charge against earnings, if estimated fair value for the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including its goodwill. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we determined that the carrying values of the goodwill associated with the Security reporting unit within the Security segment and the Training and Mentoring (“TM”) reporting unit within the TIS segment exceeded the fair values due to a decline in the projected future cash flows resulting in a non-cash impairment charge of $13.7 million and $30.9 million, respectively. Additionally, we determined that the carrying value of certain intangibles within the TIS segment exceeded the fair value due to a change in the business model during the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2012. As such, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $6.1 million. As the defense industry is currently in a volatile state and faces many uncertainties in the upcoming year, we could see a further decline in the estimated fair values of one or more of our reporting units which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Critical Accounting Policies within “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion. Restatement of our financial statements could adversely affect our business. Restatement of our financial statements could have adverse consequences on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, including the triggering of an event of default under our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes. Restatements could cause our credit rating to be downgraded, which could result in an increase in our borrowing costs and make it more difficult to borrow funds on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, restatements could result in key executives departing and SEC enforcement action. We may not be able to continue to deploy or sell our helicopter assets. We have approximately $8.2 million in helicopter assets comprised of seven UH-1HP “Huey” helicopters that are not deployed on existing programs. Due to the past military history of these helicopters and the associated restricted certification status with the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), the helicopters are limited to public use applications (police, fire or movement of our personnel and supplies on programs). We had 13 Huey helicopters as of December 31, 2010 and deployed six of them, with a carrying value of $8.1 million, on the LOGCAP IV program in January 2011. We plan to sell the remaining seven Huey helicopters or utilize them on existing programs. As of December 31, 2012, these helicopters are classified as inventory within our financial statements as we work to finalize the certification status with the FAA. We have no guarantee that we will be able to successfully sell these assets or if we are unable to sell them or deploy them on other programs. The inability to sell or deploy the remaining helicopters could lead to a material impairment charge in the future. We use estimates when accounting for contracts. Changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. When agreeing to contractual terms, we make assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over a period of time. These assumptions and projections assess the cost, productivity and availability of labor, future levels of business base, complexity of the work to be performed, cost and availability of materials, impact of potential delays in performance and timing of product deliveries. Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is subject to many variables. Incentives, awards or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. Suppliers’ assertions are also assessed and considered in estimating costs and profit rates. 19 Table of Contents Because of the significance of the judgment and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon the profitability of one or more of the affected contracts and our performance. See Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments in Part II, Item 7. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Furthermore, changes in applicable domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. Deferred tax assets are required to be measured at the statutory tax rate currently in effect, therefore a change in the U.S. corporate tax rate would result in a remeasurement of our net deferred tax asset through the income tax provision. The final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Additionally, changes in our tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial reporting income and taxable income, the results of audits and the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and significantly affect our income tax expense, profitability and cash flow. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2012, we are highly leveraged with our total indebtedness of approximately $782.3 million. We had $111.7 million available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility, and the terms of the senior secured credit facilities permit us to increase the amount available under our term loan and/or revolving credit facilities by up to $275 million if we are able to obtain loan commitments from banks and satisfy certain other conditions, including our having capacity to incur such indebtedness under the indenture governing our notes. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes, including for our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, business development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. Our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase above the stated LIBOR floor levels in our senior secured credit facilities because the entire amount of the indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities bears interest at a variable rate. At December 31, 2012, we had approximately $327.3 million aggregate principal amount of variable rate indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities. A 100 basis point increase over the LIBOR floor levels would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $3.3 million. 20 Table of Contents Despite our high indebtedness level, we and our subsidiaries still may be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing our debt obligations contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. In addition to the $111.7 million which is available to us for borrowing under our revolving credit facility, the terms of our senior secured credit facilities enable us to increase the amount available under our term loan and/or revolving credit facilities by up to an aggregate of $275 million if we are able to obtain loan commitments from banks and satisfy certain other conditions, including our having capacity to incur such indebtedness under the indenture governing our notes. Additionally, we can take on more debt as long as we meet the covenant levels as stated per the indenture and the credit facility. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ existing debt levels, the related risks that we face would increase. In addition, the agreements governing our debt obligations do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness under those agreements. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our debt agreements contain, and the agreements governing any future indebtedness we incur may contain, various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; • create liens; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. In addition, the covenants in our senior secured credit facilities require us to maintain a leverage ratio below the maximum total leverage ratio and interest coverage above a minimum interest coverage ratio, and limit our capital expenditures. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions under our indenture and, in the case of our revolving credit facility, permit the lenders to cease making loans to us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Such actions by those lenders could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our senior secured credit facilities. If the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, the proceeds from the sale or foreclosure upon such assets will first be used to repay debt under our senior secured credit facilities, and we may not have sufficient assets to repay our unsecured indebtedness thereafter, including our notes. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, including the notes, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the notes. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the notes. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments and the indenture governing the notes may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. 21 Table of Contents Repayment of our debt, including the notes, is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own substantially all of our assets and conduct substantially all of our operations. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness, including the notes, is dependent, to a significant extent, on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are guarantors of the notes, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the notes or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable DynCorp International to make payments in respect of its indebtedness, including the notes. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from DynCorp International’s subsidiaries. While the indenture governing the notes limits the ability of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. In the event that DynCorp International does not receive distributions from its subsidiaries, DynCorp International may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on its indebtedness, including the notes. We are controlled by Cerberus, who will be able to make important decisions affecting our business. All of our common stock is indirectly owned by funds and/or managed accounts that are affiliates of Cerberus. As a result, Cerberus is entitled to elect all of our directors, to appoint new management and to approve actions requiring the approval of the holders of our capital stock, including adopting amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approving mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The interests of Cerberus and its affiliates may differ from those of our other investors. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, Cerberus and its affiliates, as equity holders, may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks. Additionally, our debt agreements permits us to pay advisory fees, dividends or make other restricted payments under certain circumstances, and Cerberus may have an interest in our doing so. We may compete with, or enter into transactions with, entities in which our controlling stockholder holds a substantial interest. Cerberus is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly and indirectly with us. In particular, IAP Worldwide Services, Inc. (“IAP”), an entity in which Cerberus holds a controlling equity interest, may compete with us for certain contracts and other opportunities. Further, Steven F. Gaffney, the Chairman of our Board of Directors and our Chief Executive Officer, also serves as the Chairman of the Board of IAP. Corporate opportunities may arise in the area of potential competitive business activities that may be attractive to us as well as to Cerberus or IAP or their respective affiliates, including through potential acquisitions of competing businesses. Competition may intensify if an affiliate or subsidiary of Cerberus, including IAP, were to enter into or possibly acquire a business similar to ours. In the event that such a transaction happens, Cerberus is under no obligation to communicate or offer such corporate opportunity to us, even if such opportunity might reasonably have been expected to be of interest to us or our subsidiaries. We may make future investments, which would include co-investment or joint venture arrangements with our affiliates. We may also enter into business combinations and/or collaborate with and invest in other firms or entities, including Cerberus or IAP. You should consider that the interests of Cerberus may differ from yours in material respects. A decline or reprioritization of funding in the U.S. defense budget or delays in the budget process could adversely affect our operating performance and our ability to generate cash flow to fund our operations. Our government contracts and sales are highly correlated and dependent upon the U.S. defense budget which is subject to the congressional budget authorization and appropriations process. Defense budgets are a function of several factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in U.S. procurement policies, budget considerations, current and future economic conditions, presidential administration priorities, changing national security and defense requirements, geo-political developments and actual fiscal year congressional appropriations for defense budgets. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a September 30 fiscal year basis, even though contract periods of performance may extend over many years. Consequently, at the beginning of a major program, the contract is usually partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as appropriations are made by Congress for future fiscal years. In August 2011, Congress enacted the Budget Control Act of 2011 (“the Act”). The Act specified an immediate $917 billion of cuts over ten years, including $487 billion from defense spending. The Joint Select Committee, (“Super Committee”), established for deficit reduction purposes, failed in producing measures to reduce the deficit by at least $1.5 trillion, resulting in “sequestration of appropriations” being set into motion to be equally split between security and non-security programs. Our funding for programs is dependent upon the annual budget and appropriation decisions, as well as other geo-political and macroeconomic conditions, which are beyond our control. 22 Table of Contents On March 21, 2013, Congress passed a modified CR which includes a number of the negotiated fiscal year 2013 spending bills, including defense. The CR for the fiscal year 2013 defense appropriations bill will fund O&M accounts at nearly the budgeted request. Over the longer-term, recent statements by Congress and the Administration have generated some optimism that there is a renewed focus on addressing the underlying structural budget issues. Final negotiations related to the budget are expected by mid year 2013. If the final budget does not conclude sequestration, the defense industry will remain unstable. The Administration’s proposed DoD fiscal year 2014 budget or plan, which was scheduled for release in February 2013, has been delayed due to the ongoing debate between the Administration and Congress. The declining DoD budgets could reduce funding for some of our revenue arrangements and could have a negative impact on our sales. These or other factors could result in a significant decline in, or redirection of, current and future budgets and could adversely affect our operating performance, including the possible loss of revenue and reduction in our operating cash flow. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 