D. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on Form 20-F. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the price of our shares could decline. Risks related to our business and financial condition We may not be able to introduce new 3D printers, high-performance systems and consumables acceptable to customers or to improve the technology, software or consumables used in our current systems in response to changing technology and end-user needs. We derive most of our revenues from the sale of additive manufacturing systems and related consumables. The markets in which we operate are subject to rapid and substantial innovation and technological change, mainly driven by technological advances and end-user requirements and preferences, as well as the emergence of new standards and practices. Our ability to compete in these markets depends, in large part, on our success in enhancing our existing products and developing new additive manufacturing systems and new consumables that will address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of prospective end-users, and respond to technological advances and industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis or otherwise gain market acceptance. Even if we successfully enhance our existing systems or create new systems, it is likely that new systems and technologies that we develop will eventually supplant our existing systems or that our competitors will create systems that will replace our systems. As a result, any of our products may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by our or others’ technological advances. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate. The operating results and financial condition of our company may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year and are likely to continue to vary due to a number of factors, many of which will not be within our control. If our operating results do not meet the guidance that we provide to the market place or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our ordinary shares will likely decline. Fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition may be due to a number of factors, including those listed below and those identified throughout this “Risk factors” section: •the degree of market acceptance of our products and services; •the mix of products and services that we sell during any period; •long sales cycles; •unforeseen liabilities or difficulties in integrating our acquisitions; •changes in the amount that that we spend to develop, acquire or license new products, consumables, technologies or businesses; •changes in the amounts that we spend to promote our products and services; •changes in the cost of satisfying our warranty obligations and servicing our installed base of systems; •delays between our expenditures to develop and market new or enhanced systems and consumables and the generation of sales from those products; 6 •development of new competitive products and services by others; •difficulty in predicting sales patterns and reorder rates that may result from multi-tier distribution strategy associated with new product categories such as entry level desktop 3D printers; •litigation or threats of litigation, including intellectual property claims by third parties; •changes in accounting rules and tax laws; •the geographic distribution of our sales; •our responses to price competition; •general economic and industry conditions that affect end-user demand and end-user levels of product design and manufacturing; •changes in interest rates that affect returns on our cash balances and short-term investments; •changes in dollar-shekel and dollar-Euro exchange rates that affect the value of our net assets, revenues and expenditures from and/or relating to our activities carried out in those currencies; •failure of a development partner to continue supporting certain product development efforts it is funding; and •the level of research and development activities by our company. Due to all of the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this annual report, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indicator of our future performance. If demand for our products and services does not continue to grow as expected, our revenues may stagnate or decline. The commercial marketplace for additive manufacturing, which was once dominated by conventional methods that do not involve 3D printing technology, has been undergoing a shift towards 3D printing. This is true with respect to prototype development, and to some extent, with respect to direct digital manufacturing, or DDM, as an alternative 7 to traditional manufacturing. If the commercial marketplace does not continue to transform towards the broader acceptance of 3D printing and DDM as alternatives for prototype development and traditional manufacturing, or if it adopts 3D printing based on technologies other than the technologies that we use, we may not be able to increase or sustain current or future levels of sales of our products and related materials and services, and our results of operations may be adversely affected as a result. To the extent that other companies are successful in developing or marketing consumables for use in our Idea, Design and Production Series systems, our revenues and profits would likely be adversely affected. We sell a substantial portion of the consumables used in our Idea, Design and Production Series systems. We attempt to protect against replication of our proprietary consumables through patents and trade secrets and provide that warranties on those systems may be invalid if customers use non-genuine consumables that cause damage to the printer. Other companies have developed and sold, and may continue to develop and sell, consumables that are used with our systems, which may reduce our consumables sales and impair our overall revenues and profitability. If our product mix shifts too far into lower margin products or our revenues mix shifts significantly towards our AM services business, our profitability could be reduced. Sales of certain of our existing products have higher margins than others. For instance, our high-end systems and related consumables yield a greater gross margin than our entry-level systems. As we continue to ship entry-level systems including desktop 3D printers, our sales of those systems have grown. Furthermore, some of those sales may displace sales of our other systems. If sales of our entry-level desktop 3D printers have the effect of reducing sales of our higher margin products, or if for any other reason, our product mix shifts too far into lower margin products, and we are not able to sufficiently reduce the engineering, production and other costs associated with those products or substantially increase the sales of those products, our profitability could be reduced. A similar negative impact on our gross margins could result if we experience a substantial shift towards revenues generated by our AM parts service business, which we expect to significantly broaden as a result of our recent acquisitions of Solid Concepts and Harvest Technologies, and which are characterized by lower margins relative to our products. We have experienced rapid and significant growth in our operations and intend to continue to grow, and if we cannot adequately adapt our infrastructure and properly integrate the internal or external sources of our growth in order to generate the intended benefits from it, our results of operations will suffer. We have experienced rapid and significant growth in our operations and intend to continue to grow, both organically and from acquisitions, such as the MakerBot transaction, the Solid Concepts acquisition, the Harvest Technologies acquisition and the GrabCAD acquisition. The adaptation of our infrastructure to our growth will require, among other things, continued development of our financial and management controls and management information systems, including our ongoing implementation of a unified enterprise resource planning system, management of our sales channel, increased capital expenditures, the ability to attract and retain qualified management personnel and the training of new personnel. We cannot be sure that our infrastructure, systems, procedures, business processes and managerial controls will be adequate to support the rapid and significant growth in our operations. Any delays in, or problems associated with, implementing, or transitioning to, new or enhanced systems, procedures, or controls to accommodate and support the requirements of our business and operations and to effectively and efficiently integrate acquired operations may adversely affect our ability to meet customer requirements, manage our product inventory, and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Additional unforeseen difficulties and expenditures that may result from the integration of a new business or technology include: 8 •difficulty transitioning customers and other business relationships to our company; •problems unifying management following a transaction; •the loss of key employees from our existing or acquired businesses; •diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the technology and personnel of acquired businesses or new product or service lines; and •difficulties in coordinating geographically disparate organizations and corporate cultures and integrating management personnel with different business backgrounds. These potential negative effects could prevent us from realizing the benefits of an acquisition transaction or other growth opportunity. In that event, our competitive position, revenues, revenue growth, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected, which could, in turn, adversely affect our share price and shareholder value. Declines in the prices of our products and services may adversely affect our financial results. Our business is subject to price competition. Such price competition may adversely affect our ability to maintain profitability, especially during periods of decreased demand. If our business is not able to offset price reductions resulting from these pressures by improved operating efficiencies, reduced expenditures and increased sales, then those price reductions would adversely affect our operating results. The markets in which we participate are competitive. Our failure to compete successfully could cause our revenues and the demand for our products to decline. We compete for end-users with a wide variety of producers of systems that create models, prototypes, other 3D objects and end-use parts as well as producers of materials and services for these systems, including both additive and subtractive manufacturing methodologies, such as metal extrusion, computer-controlled machining and manual modeling techniques. Our principal competition currently consists of other manufacturers of systems for prototype development and customized manufacturing processes, including 3D Systems Corporation, EOS GmbH and EnvisionTEC GmbH, and, with respect to our entry-level desktop 3D printers, a multitude of companies such as 3D Systems Corporation, Delta Micro Factory, Affinia, Ultimaker, Printrbot, Leapfrog, Solidoodle and others. For our recently-broadened AM parts and services business, our chief competitors consist of 3D Systems Corporation, Materialise and many other smaller service providers. In late 2014 HP announced its intention to offer 3D printers targeting similar end-users to ours. If these printers become commercially available they may compete directly with some of our product lines. We may face additional competition in the future from other new entrants into the marketplace, including companies that may have significantly greater resources than we have that may become new market entrants or may enter through acquisition or strategic or marketing partnerships with current competitors. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and more extensive name recognition than we have and may also have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources than we have. Current and future competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in end-user demands and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Our current and potential competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future products obsolete, unmarketable or less competitive (whether from a price perspective or otherwise). We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or enhance our current competitive position or continue to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition. As part of our growth strategy, we have sought, and will continue to seek, to acquire or to make investments in other businesses, patents, technologies, products or services. Our failure to do so successfully (including, if applicable, to finance such acquisitions or investments on favorable terms and to avoid adverse financial consequences) may adversely affect our financial results. As part of our growth strategy, we expect to continue to regularly evaluate acquisitions or investments to expand our suite of products and services. Even if we are able to identify a suitable acquisition or investment, we may not be able to consummate any such transaction if we cannot reach an agreement on favorable terms or if we lack sufficient resources to finance the transaction on our own and cannot obtain financing at a reasonable cost or if regulatory authorities prevent such transaction from being consummated. If we proceed with a particular acquisition, we may have to use cash, issue new equity securities with dilutive effects on existing shareholders, incur indebtedness, assume contingent liabilities or amortize assets or expenses in a manner that might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Acquisitions will also require us to record certain acquisition-related costs and other items as current period expenses, which would have the effect of reducing our reported earnings in the period in which an acquisition is consummated. We will also be required to record any post-closing goodwill or other long-lived asset impairment charges in the period in which they occur, which could result in a significant charge to our earnings in that period. We could also face unknown liabilities or write-offs. If we are not successful in completing the integration of our constituent companies from our recent acquisitions, the benefits of these later transactions may not be fully realized and the market price of our ordinary shares may be negatively affected. 9 Since the consummation of the Objet-Stratasys merger in December 2012, we have acquired MakerBot, Solid Concepts, Harvest Technologies, GrabCAD and other companies. While we believe that integration activities have progressed well to date, the ongoing difficulties of coordinating our operations include: • coordinating geographically separate organizations; • coordinating sales, distribution and marketing functions, including integration and management of our constituent companies’ sales channels; • consolidating the financial reporting systems and ERP systems of our constituent companies; • management of a substantially larger organization, with an increased number of employees over large geographic distances; and • addressing inconsistencies among the companies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with suppliers, distributors, customers and employees. As a result of these and other factors, we may not successfully complete the integration of our acquired entities. Furthermore, we may not realize all of the benefits and synergies of the acquired entities in the timeframe anticipated. It is also possible that such continuing integration and coordination arrangements could lead to the loss of members of our senior executive team, diversion of the attention of management, or the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our ongoing business, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. The occurrence of such negative results could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Our operations, particularly in integrating the operations of our constituent companies, could suffer if we are unable to attract and retain key management or other key employees. Our success depends upon the continued service and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. Our senior executive team is critical to the management of our business and operations, as well as to the development of our strategy. The loss of the services of any members of our senior executive team could delay or prevent the successful implementation of our growth strategy, or our commercialization of new applications for our systems or other products, or could otherwise adversely affect our ability to manage our company effectively and carry out our business plan. Members of our senior management team may resign at any time. High demand exists for senior management and other key personnel (including scientific, technical and sales personnel) in the additive manufacturing, or AM, industry, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain such personnel. We experience intense competition for qualified personnel. While we intend to continue to provide competitive compensation packages to attract and retain key personnel, some of our competitors for these employees have greater resources and more experience, making it difficult for us to compete successfully for key personnel. If we cannot attract and retain sufficiently qualified technical employees for our research and development and manufacturing operations, we may be unable to achieve the synergies expected from mergers and acquisitions that we may effect from time to time, or to develop and commercialize new products or new applications for existing products. Furthermore, possible shortages of key personnel, including engineers, in the regions surrounding our Minnesota, New York, California, Texas, New Hampshire or Israeli facilities could require us to pay more to hire and retain key personnel, thereby increasing our costs. Defects in new products or in enhancements to our existing products could give rise to product returns or product liability, warranty or other claims that could result in material expenses, diversion of management time and attention, and damage to our reputation. Our systems may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as enhancements are released that, despite testing, are not discovered until after a product has been used. This could result in delayed market acceptance of those products, claims from distributors, end-users or others, increased end-user service and support costs and warranty claims, damage to our reputation and business, or significant costs to correct the defect or error. We may 10 from time to time become subject to warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant expenses as we need to compensate affected end-users for costs incurred related to product quality issues. This risk may be heightened when we sell products into certain markets, such as healthcare-related applications. This risk of product liability claims may also be greater due to the use of certain hazardous chemicals used in the manufacture of certain of our products. Those hazardous chemicals fall within three different categories (with several of the chemicals falling within multiple categories): irritants, harmful chemicals and chemicals dangerous for the environment. In addition, we may be subject to claims that our 3D printers have been, or may be, used to create parts that are not in compliance with legal requirements or that intellectual property posted by third parties on our Thingiverse and GrabCAD websites infringes the intellectual property rights of others. Any claim brought against us, regardless of its merit, could result in material expense, diversion of management time and attention, and damage to our reputation, and could cause us to fail to retain existing end-users or to attract new end-users. Although we maintain product liability insurance, such insurance is subject to significant deductibles and there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against all such claims, or we may elect to self-insure with respect to certain matters. Costs or payments made in connection with warranty and product liability claims and product recalls or other claims could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our AM services business, offering parts used as prototypes, benchmarks and end-use parts in general, and, in the case of end-use parts, our sales to customers in the aerospace, medical and automotive industries, in particular, makes us more susceptible to product and other liability claims, which characterize operations in those industries. These activities and our accompanying exposure to claims will increase significantly as a result of our recent acquisitions of Solid Concepts and Harvest Technologies. Any such claims that are not adequately covered by insurance or for which insurance is not available may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of our recent acquisitions of Solid Concepts and Harvest Technologies, and together with RedEye, our preexisting digital manufacturing service business, we expect to significantly broaden and increase our production and offering of AM parts, which are used by our customers as prototypes, benchmarks and end-use parts, as part of our newly branded Stratasys Direct Manufacturing, or SDM, service. In particular, we expect to provide these additive manufacturing services to customers in the aerospace, medical and automotive industries. The sale of end use parts in general, and to customers in the foregoing industries in particular, exposes us to possible claims for property damage and personal injury or death, which may result from the use of these end-use parts. We may be potentially liable, in significant amounts, if an aircraft, automotive or medical part, component, or accessory or any other aviation, automotive or medical product that we have sold, produced or repaired fails, or if an aircraft or automobile for which our subsidiaries have provided services or in which their parts are installed crashes and the cause can be linked to those parts or cannot be determined. Our SDM service carries liability insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate for its risk exposure and commensurate with industry norms. While we intend to monitor our insurance coverage as our additive manufacturing services business continues to grow, claims may arise in the future, and that insurance coverage may not be adequate or available to protect our consolidated company in all circumstances. Additionally, we might not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage for our AM services business in the future at an acceptable cost. Any liability claim against our AM services business that is not covered by adequate insurance could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. If our relationships with suppliers for our products and services, especially with single source suppliers of components of our products, were to terminate or our manufacturing arrangements were to be disrupted, our business could be interrupted. We purchase components and sub-assemblies for our systems, raw materials that are used in our consumables, and AM syatems, component parts and raw materials for our Stratasys Direct Manufacturing services business, from third-party suppliers, some of whom may compete with us. While there are several potential suppliers of most of these component parts, sub-assemblies and raw materials that we use, we currently choose to use only one or a limited number of suppliers for several of these components and materials. Furthermore, the suppliers of AM systems and materials used in our SDM parts service may refuse to sell us additional AM systems or component parts and materials for AM 11 systems that our SDM service uses. Our reliance on a single or limited number of vendors involves a number of risks, including: •potential shortages of some key components; •product performance shortfalls, if traceable to particular product components, since the supplier of the faulty component cannot readily be replaced; •discontinuation of a product on which we rely; •potential insolvency of these vendors; and •reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capabilities, quality and costs. In addition, we require any new supplier to become “qualified” pursuant to our internal procedures. The qualification process involves evaluations of varying durations, which may cause production delays if we were required to qualify a new supplier unexpectedly. We generally assemble our systems and parts based on our internal forecasts and the availability of raw materials, assemblies, components and finished goods that are supplied to us by third parties, which are subject to various lead times. If certain suppliers were to decide to discontinue production of an assembly, component or raw material that we use, the unanticipated change in the availability of supplies, or unanticipated supply limitations, could cause delays in, or loss of, sales, increased production or related costs and consequently reduced margins, and damage to our reputation. If we were unable to find a suitable supplier for a particular component, material or compound, we could be required to modify our existing products or the end-parts that we offer to accommodate substitute components, material or compounds. In particular, we rely on a sole supplier, Ricoh Printing Systems America, Inc., or Ricoh, for the printer heads for our PolyJet 3D printers. Under the terms of our agreement with Ricoh, we purchase printer heads and associated electronic components, and receive a non-transferable, non-exclusive right to assemble, use and sell these purchased products under Ricoh’s patent rights and trade secrets. Due to the risk of a discontinuation of the supply of Ricoh printer heads and other key components of our products, we maintain excess inventory of those printer heads and other components. However, if our forecasts exceed actual orders, we may hold large inventories of slow-moving or unusable parts or raw materials, which could result in inventory write offs or write downs and have an adverse effect on our cash flow, profitability and results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Manufacturing and Suppliers—Inventory and Suppliers—Ricoh Agreement” for further discussion of this agreement. If goodwill or other intangible assets that we have recorded become impaired, we could have to take significant charges against earnings. As of December 31, 2014, the book value of all of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which was primarily attributable to the Stratasys-Objet merger, the MakerBot transaction and the Solid Concepts acquisition, was approximately $1.9 billion. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets has been impaired. During the year ended December 31, 2014 we recorded an impairment charge of $102.5 million related to our MakerBot reporting unit. Please see Note 1 to our audited financial statements included in Item 18 of this annual report for further information. Amortizing intangible assets will be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator. Such impairment may result from one of a number of possible causes, including invalidation of acquired patents, trademarks or other intellectual property, or the impairment of other intangible assets due to litigation, obsolescence, competitive factors, lower than expected revenue and operating results or other reasons. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders’ equity in future periods. We will continue to monitor other intangible assets in an effort to determine whether events and circumstances 12 warrant further impairment charges. Please see Note 7 to our audited financial statements included in Item 18 of this annual report for further information. Discontinuation of operations at our manufacturing sites could prevent us from timely filling customer orders and could lead to unforeseen costs for us. We assemble and test the systems that we sell, and produce consumables for our systems, at single facilities in various locations that are specifically dedicated to separate categories of systems and consumables. Because of our reliance on all of these production facilities, a disruption at any of those facilities could materially damage our ability to supply 3D printers, other systems or consumable materials to the marketplace in a timely manner. Depending on the cause of the disruption, we could also incur significant costs to remedy the disruption and resume product shipments. Such disruptions may be caused by, among other factors, earthquakes, fire, flood and other natural disasters. Accordingly, any such disruption could result in a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and earnings, and could also potentially damage our reputation. A loss of, or reduction in revenues from, a significant number of our resellers and our independent sales agents would impair our ability to sell our products and services and could reduce our revenues and adversely impact our operating results. We rely heavily on our network of resellers and independent sales agents to sell and (in the case of resellers) to service our products for end-users in their respective geographic regions. These resellers and sales agents may not be as effective in selling our products or servicing our end-users as we are. Further, if a significant number of these resellers and sales agents were to terminate their relationship with us or otherwise fail or refuse to sell our products, we may not be able to find replacements that are as qualified or as successful in a timely manner, if at all. If these resellers and independent sales agents do not perform as anticipated or if we are unable to find qualified and successful replacements, our sales will suffer, which would have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Additionally, a default by one or more resellers that have a significant receivables balance could have an adverse financial impact on our financial results. Our business model is predicated in part on building an end-user base that will generate a recurring stream of revenues through the sale of our consumables. If that recurring stream of revenues does not develop as expected, or if our business model changes as the industry evolves, our operating results may be adversely affected. Our business model is dependent in part on our ability to maintain and increase sales of our proprietary consumables as they generate recurring revenues. Existing and future end-users of our systems may not purchase our consumables at the same rate at which end-users currently purchase those consumables. In addition, our entry-level systems generally use a lower volume of consumables relative to our higher end systems. If our current and future end-users purchase a lower volume of our consumables, or if our entry level systems represent an increasing percentage of our future installed base mix uses less consumables than our current installed base, our recurring revenue stream relative to our total revenues would be reduced, and our operating results would be adversely affected. Global economic, political and social conditions have adversely impacted sales of our constituent companies, and may once again affect us in the future. The uncertain direction and relative strength of the global economy, difficulties in the financial services sector and credit markets, continuing geopolitical uncertainties and other macroeconomic factors all affect spending behavior of potential end-users of our products and services. The prospects for economic growth in some of the regions in which we sell our products remain uncertain, and may cause end-users to further delay or reduce technology purchases. In particular, a portion of our sales are made to customers in countries in Europe, which have been and may continue to be affected by significant economic difficulties. These and other macroeconomic factors had an adverse impact on the sales of the products and services of our constituent companies following the global financial downturn in late 2008, leading to reduced revenues from sales and longer sales cycles. While Objet and Stratasys, Inc. saw an improvement in revenues from sales of their systems and consumables in 2010, 2011 and 2012, and our combined company has continued that positive trend beginning after the completion of the Stratasys-Objet merger on December 1, 2012 through the present time, there can be no assurance that such improvement is sustainable, particularly if global economic conditions suffer another setback or if European economies experience further disruptions. 13 We also face risks that may arise from financial difficulties experienced by our end-users, suppliers and distributors, which may be exacerbated by continued uncertainty in the global economy, including: •reduced end-user demand for products and reduced manufacturing activity levels; •distributors and end-users may be unable to obtain credit financing to finance purchases of our products; •suppliers may be unable to obtain credit financing to finance purchases of sub-assemblies used to build components of products or purchases of raw materials to produce consumables; •end-users or distributors may face financial difficulties or may become insolvent, which could lead to our inability to obtain payment for our products; and •key suppliers of raw materials, finished products or components used in our products and consumables may face financial difficulties or may become insolvent, which could lead to disruption in the supply of systems, consumables or spare parts to our end-users. Our existing and planned international operations currently expose us and will continue to expose us to additional market and operational risks, and failure to manage these risks may adversely affect our business and operating results. We expect to derive a substantial percentage of our sales from international markets. We derived 46% of our sales in 2014 from countries outside of North America. Accordingly, we face significant operational risks from doing business internationally, including: •fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; •potentially longer sales and payment cycles; •potentially greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; •potentially adverse tax consequences; •reduced protection of intellectual property rights in certain countries, particularly in Asia and South America; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •laws and business practices favoring local competition; •costs and difficulties of customizing products for foreign countries; •compliance with a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations; •tariffs, trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets; and •being subject to the laws, regulations and the court systems of many jurisdictions. Our failure to manage the market and operational risks associated with our international operations effectively could limit the future growth of our business and adversely affect our operating results. Covenants in our credit agreement may restrict our business in many ways. 14 The credit agreement and related agreements that we and our wholly-owned subsidiary (the borrower) entered into in November 2013 with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and the other lenders party thereto, contain various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: •incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; •make any investments, except certain investments as specified therein; •engage in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business conducted by us and our subsidiaries or any business substantially related or incidental thereto; •create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any indebtedness except certain indebtedness as specified therein. •issue redeemable stock and preferred equity; •pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; •prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; •make loans, investments and capital expenditures; •enter into agreements that restrict distributions from our subsidiaries; •sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; •enter into certain transactions with affiliates; •consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person, or dispose of all or substantially all of our IP rights or other assets to or in favor of any person; •make any disposition except certain dispositions permitted under the credit agreement; •declare or make, directly or indirectly, any restricted payment, or incur any obligation (contingent or otherwise) to do so, except as defined therein; and •enter into certain contractual obligations. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default or event of default. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could accelerate the repayment of borrowings. If that were to occur, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the amounts owed under the credit agreement or be able to obtain financing from other sources on favorable terms, if at all. For more information, please see Item 5.B “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital resources and capital expenditures—Revolving credit facility” and note 9 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 18 of this annual report. Significant disruptions of our information technology systems or breaches of our data security could adversely affect our business. A significant invasion, interruption, destruction or breakdown of our information technology systems and/or infrastructure by persons with authorized or unauthorized access could negatively impact our business and operations. We could also experience business interruption, information theft and/or reputational damage from cyber attacks, which may compromise our systems and lead to data leakage either internally or at our third party providers. Our systems have been, and are expected to continue to be, the target of malware and other cyber attacks. Although we have invested in measures to reduce these risks, we cannot assure you that these measures will be successful in preventing compromise and/or disruption of our information technology systems and related data. 15 Under applicable employment laws, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We generally enter into non-competition agreements with our employees. These agreements prohibit our employees from competing directly with us or working for our competitors or clients for a limited period after they cease working for us. We may be unable to enforce these agreements under the laws of the jurisdictions in which our employees work and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from benefiting from the expertise that our former employees or consultants developed while working for us. For example, Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer that have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or the protection of its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that such interests will be harmed, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees or consultants and our ability to remain competitive may be diminished. In addition in California, where many employees of our SDM parts service are located, non-competition agreements with employees are generally unenforceable after termination of employment. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other applicable anti-corruption legislation could result in fines, criminal penalties and an adverse effect on our business. We operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws. We are subject, however, to the risk that our affiliated entities or our and our affiliates’ respective officers, directors, employees and agents (including distributors of our products) may take action determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, as well as trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and the U.S. Department of Commerce. Any violation by any of these persons could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, or curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. We own a number of our manufacturing and office facilities, which may limit our ability to move those operations. If we were to move some or all of those operations, we could incur unforeseen charges. We own buildings in Eden Prairie, Minnesota, which we use to conduct our FDM manufacturing and assembly operations, as well as our manufacturing facility in Kiryat Gat, Israel. Ownership of these buildings and facilities may adversely affect our ability to move some or all of those operations to other locations that may be more favorable. If we were to move any of those operations to other locations, we may have difficulty selling or leasing the property that we vacate. This could result in an impairment charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in one or more periods. If we do not generate sufficient future taxable income, we may be required to recognize deferred tax asset valuation allowances. The value of our deferred tax assets depends, in part, on our ability to use them to offset taxable income in future years. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the U.S. and certain other jurisdictions, or if there are significant changes in tax laws or the tax rates or the period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to record valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. Such allowances would result in an increase in our effective tax rate and have a negative impact on our operating results. If our estimated future taxable income is increased, the valuation allowances for deferred tax assets may be reduced. These changes may also contribute to the volatility of our consolidated financial results. Default in payment by one or more resellers or customers from which we have large account receivable balances could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, our accounts receivable balances have been concentrated with certain resellers or customers. Default by one or more of these resellers or customers could result in a significant charge against our current reported earnings. We have reviewed our policies that govern credit and collections, and will continue to monitor them in light 16 of current payment status and economic conditions. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts to identify potential credit risks will be successful. Our inability to timely identify resellers and customers that are credit risks could result in defaults at a time when such resellers or customers have high accounts receivable balances with us. Any such default would result in a significant charge against our earnings and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations use chemicals and produce waste materials. We are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permitting requirements in multiple jurisdictions governing, among other things, the generation, use, storage, registration, handling and disposal of chemicals and waste materials, the presence of specified substances in electrical products, the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water, the cleanup of contaminated sites, including any contamination that results from spills due to our failure to properly dispose of chemicals and other waste materials and the health and safety of our employees. Under these laws, regulations and requirements, we could also be subject to liability for improper disposal of chemicals and waste materials, including those resulting from the use of our systems and accompanying materials by end-users. These or future laws and regulations could potentially require the expenditure of significant amounts for compliance and/or remediation. If our operations fail to comply with such laws or regulations, we may be subject to fines and other civil, administrative or criminal sanctions, including the revocation of permits and licenses necessary to continue our business activities. In addition, we may be required to pay damages or civil judgments in respect of third-party claims, including those relating to personal injury (including exposure to hazardous substances that we generate, use, store, handle, transport, manufacture or dispose of), property damage or contribution claims. Some environmental laws allow for strict, joint and several liabilities for remediation costs, regardless of fault. We may be identified as a potentially responsible party under such laws. Such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental laws due to the import and export of our products, which could subject us to compliance costs and/or potential liability in the event of non-compliance. The export of our products internationally from our production facilities subjects us to environmental laws and regulations concerning the import and export of chemicals and hazardous substances such as the United States Toxic Substances Control Act, or TSCA, and the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical Substances, or REACH. These laws and regulations require the testing and registration of some chemicals that we ship along with, or that form a part of, our systems and other products. If we fail to comply with these or similar laws and regulations, we may be required to make significant expenditures to reformulate the chemicals that we use in our products and materials or incur costs to register such chemicals to gain and/or regain compliance. Additionally, we could be subject to significant fines or other civil and criminal penalties should we not achieve such compliance. We are currently subject to a number of lawsuits. These and any future lawsuits to which we become subject may have a material adverse impact on our capitalization, business and results of operations. We are currently party to one significant action by a former employee who seeks the issuance of options exercisable for our ordinary shares. The former employee has demanded, based on an alleged undertaking we had made prior to the Stratasys-Objet merger, that we issue him an option that would allow him to maintain an equity interest of 1.45% in our company and reimburse salary reductions he had suffered. This plaintiff has further demanded compensation on account of alleged wrongful termination. While the initial court ruling on this matter dismissed the case and awarded us legal expenses, the plaintiff has appealed the case, which appeal is currently ongoing and is being litigated in the Israeli national labor court. We have furthermore been sued by four current or former minority shareholders and former directors of our company who demand that we amend the capitalization table of our company such that certain share issuances prior to the Stratasys-Objet merger to certain of our shareholders named as defendants would be cancelled, with a consequent issuance of additional shares to the plaintiffs to account for the subsequent dilution to which they have been subject. The lawsuits, which were brought in an Israeli district court in March 2013, also name as defendants certain of our directors, officers and shareholders who previously held those positions prior to the Stratasys-Objet merger. 17 We are also subject to three additional lawsuits, styled as class actions of our shareholders, which were initiated in the United States District Courts for the District of Minnesota, the Southern District of New York, and the Eastern District of New York on February 5, 9, and 20, 2015, respectively, and which name the Company and certain of our officers as defendants. The lawsuits allege violations of the Exchange Act in connection with allegedly false and misleading statements concerning our business and prospects. The plaintiffs seek damages and an award of reasonable costs and expenses, including attorneys’ fees. These lawsuits are in their initial stages, and no substantive proceedings have occurred to date. We can provide no assurance as to the outcome of these or any future matters or actions, and any such matters or actions may result in judgments against us for significant damages and/or the issuance of options to acquire shares of our capital stock, the exercise of which would result in dilution to our shareholders. Resolution of these matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in litigation and other proceedings. Moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements. Regardless of the outcome, litigation has resulted in the past, and may result in the future, in significant legal expenses and require significant attention and resources of management. As a result, current and any future litigation could result in losses, damages and expenses that have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution, and other key functions. If our information systems fail to adequately perform these functions, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely on our management information systems: to, among other things, effectively manage our accounting and financial functions, including maintaining our internal controls; to manage our manufacturing and supply chain processes; and to maintain our research and development data. The failure of our management information systems to perform properly could disrupt our business and product development, which may result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess or obsolete inventory, and product shortages, causing our business and operating results to suffer. Although we take steps to secure our management information systems, including our computer systems, intranet and Internet sites, email and other telecommunications and data networks, the security measures we have implemented may not be effective and our systems may be vulnerable to theft, loss, damage and interruption from a number of potential sources and events, including unauthorized access or security breaches, natural or man-made disasters, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, power loss, or other disruptive events. Our reputation, brand, and financial condition could be adversely affected if, as a result of a significant cyber event or otherwise, our operations are disrupted or shut down; our confidential, proprietary information is stolen or disclosed; we incur costs or are required to pay fines in connection with stolen customer, employee, or other confidential information; we must dedicate significant resources to system repairs or increase cyber security protection; or we otherwise incur significant litigation or other costs. Compliance with disclosure rules regarding “conflict minerals” may require us to incur expenses or modify our products or operations and may also adversely affect the demand for some of our products and our operating results. As required under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, in August 2012 the SEC promulgated final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold), and certain of their derivatives, known as “conflict minerals,” which are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer’s efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. As required by these new rules, in 2013, we commenced due diligence efforts to determine our use of conflict minerals, and we made our first conflict mineral filing with the SEC on June 2, 2014. The rules require us to make subsequent disclosures no later than May 31 of each following year. We expect that we will incur additional costs and expenses, which may be significant, in order to comply with these rules. Since our supply chain is complex, ultimately we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins for any conflict minerals and metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may adversely affect our reputation with our customers, shareholders, and other stakeholders. In such event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of our products are certified as conflict mineral free. If we are not able to meet such requirements, customers may choose not to purchase our products, which could adversely affect our sales and the value of portions of our inventory. Further, there may be only a limited number of suppliers 18 offering conflict free minerals and, as a result, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain metals, if necessary, from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Any one or a combination of these various factors could harm our business, reduce market demand for our products, and adversely affect our profit margins, net sales, and overall financial results. Risks related to our intellectual property As our patents expire, additional competitors using our technology could enter the market, which could offer competitive printers and consumables, require us to reduce our prices for our products and result in lost sales. Competitors’ introduction of lower quality products using our technology could also negatively affect the reputation and image of our products in the marketplace. Some of our patents have expired and others will expire in coming years. Upon expiration of those patents, our competitors have introduced, and are likely to continue to introduce, products using the technology previously protected by the expired patents, which products may have lower prices than those of our products. To compete, we may need to reduce our prices for those products, which would adversely affect our revenues, margins and profitability. Additionally, the expiration of our patents could reduce barriers to entry into AM systems, which could result in the reduction of our sales and earnings potential. If competitors using technology previously protected by our expired patents were to introduce products of inferior quality, our potential customers may view our products negatively, which would have an adverse effect on our image and reputation and on our ability to compete with systems using other AM technologies. If we are unable to obtain patent protection for our products or otherwise protect our intellectual property rights, our business could suffer. We rely on a combination of patent and trademark laws in the United States and other countries, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our employees, end-users and others to maintain our competitive position. In particular, our success depends, in part, on our ability, and the ability of our licensors, to obtain patent protection for our and their products, technologies and inventions, maintain the confidentiality of our and their trade secrets and know-how, operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others and prevent others from infringing upon our and their proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies, inventions, processes or improvements. We cannot assure you that any of our existing or future patents or other intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or will otherwise provide us with meaningful protection. Our pending patent applications may not be granted, and we may not be able to obtain foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents. The laws of certain countries, such as China, do not provide the same level of patent protection as in the United States, so even if we assert our patents or obtain additional patents in China or elsewhere outside of the United States, effective enforcement of such patents may not be available. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer additive manufacturing systems, consumables or other products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents, and we may not be able to detect the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology or take appropriate steps to prevent such use. If we attempt enforcement of our intellectual property rights, we may be (as we have been in the past) subject or party to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation, regardless of merit, can be costly and disruptive to our business operations by diverting attention and energies of management and key technical personnel, and by increasing our costs of doing business. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our operating results. We may be subject to claims that we are infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of others. Our products and technology, including the technology that we license from others, may infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of third parties. Patent applications in the United States and most 19 other countries are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and the publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months or more. As a result, the nature of claims contained in unpublished patent filings around the world is unknown to us, and we cannot be certain that we were the first to conceive inventions covered by our patents or patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications covering such inventions. Furthermore, it is not possible to know in which countries patent holders may choose to extend their filings under the Patent Cooperation Treaty or other mechanisms. In addition, we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from individuals, vendors and other companies, including those that have acquired patents in the fields of 3D printing or consumable production for the sole purpose of asserting claims against us. In addition to patent infringement claims, we may be subject to other intellectual property claims, such as claims that we are infringing trademarks or misappropriating trade secrets. We may also be subject to claims relating to the content on our websites, including third-party content posted on our Thingiverse.com or GrabCAD.com websites. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending and resolving such claims, and may prohibit or otherwise impair our ability to commercialize new or existing products. Resolution of such claims may, among other things, require us to redesign infringing technology, enter into costly settlement or license agreements on terms that are unfavorable to us, or require us to indemnify our distributors and end-users. Any infringement by us or our licensors of the intellectual property rights of third parties may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or know-how, such proprietary information may be used by others to compete against us, in particular in developing consumables that could be used with our printing systems in place of our proprietary consumables. We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our technology, trade secrets, know-how and other unregistered proprietary rights. While we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements intended to protect such rights, such agreements can be difficult and costly to enforce or may not provide adequate remedies if violated, and we may not have entered into such agreements with all relevant parties. Such agreements may be breached and confidential information may be willfully or unintentionally disclosed, or our competitors or other parties may learn of the information in some other way. The disclosure to, or independent development by, a competitor of any of our trade secrets, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent could materially reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage that we may have over such competitor. This concern could manifest itself in particular with respect to our proprietary consumables that are used with our systems. Portions of our proprietary consumables may not be afforded patent protection. Chemical companies or other producers of raw materials used in our consumables may be able to develop consumables that are compatible to a large extent with our systems, whether independently or in contravention of our trade secret rights and related proprietary and contractual rights. If such consumables are made available to owners of our systems, and are purchased in place of our proprietary consumables, our revenues and profitability would be reduced and we could be forced to reduce prices for our proprietary consumables. Risks related to operations in Israel Our Israeli headquarters and manufacturing and other significant operations may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. One of our dual corporate headquarters, as well as all of our PolyJet-related system manufacturing and research and development facilities, one of our two PolyJet consumables manufacturing facilities, and some of our suppliers, are located in central and southern Israel. In addition, many of our key employees, officers and directors are residents of Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its neighboring countries. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners could adversely affect our operations and results of operations. During the winter of 2008-2009, in November 2012 and once again in the summer of 2014, Israel has been engaged in armed conflict with Hamas, a militia group and political party that controls the Gaza Strip, and during the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party. These conflicts involved missile strikes against civilian targets in various parts of Israel, including areas where some of our manufacturing 20 facilities are located, and negatively affected business conditions in Israel. Any armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability in the region, including those related to the recent unrest in Syria, could adversely affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Parties with whom we do business have sometimes declined to travel to Israel during periods of heightened unrest or tension, forcing us to make alternative arrangements when necessary in order to meet our business partners face to face. In addition, parties with whom we have agreements involving performance in Israel may claim that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions in such agreements due to the political or security situation in Israel. Furthermore, many of our male employees in Israel, including members of our senior management, are obligated to perform one month, and in some cases longer periods, of annual military reserve duty until they reach the age of 45 (or older, for citizens who hold certain positions in the Israeli armed forces reserves), and, in the event of a military conflict (such as the last conflict with Hamas), may be called to active duty. In response to increases in terrorist activity from time to time and as a result of the last conflict with Hamas, there have been periods of significant call-ups of military reservists, and some of our Israeli employees have been called up in connection with armed conflicts. It is possible that there will be similar large-scale military reserve duty call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of Israeli employees or of one or more of our key Israeli employees. Such disruption could materially adversely affect our business and operations. Our commercial insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of an event associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government is currently committed to covering the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained, or if maintained, will be sufficient to compensate us fully for damages incurred. Any losses or damages incurred by our Israeli operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions generally and could harm our results of operations. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law, which may differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders of U.S. companies. We are organized under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of the holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our amended and restated articles of association and Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S.-based corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on matters such as amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and acquisitions and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. There is limited case law available to assist us in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholders’ actions. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on holders of our ordinary shares that are not typically imposed on shareholders of U.S. corporations. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or otherwise impede a merger with, or an acquisition of, our company, which could prevent a change of control, even when the terms of such a transaction are favorable to us and our shareholders. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to such types of transactions. For example, a merger may not be consummated unless at least 50 days have passed from the date on which a merger proposal is filed by each merging company with the Israel Registrar of Companies and at least 30 days have passed from the date on which the shareholders of both merging companies have approved the merger. In addition, a majority of each class of securities of the target company must approve a merger. Moreover, a tender offer for all of a company’s issued and outstanding shares can only be completed if the acquirer receives positive responses from the holders of at least 95% of the issued share capital. Completion of the tender offer also requires approval of a majority of the offerees that do not have a 21 personal interest in the tender offer, unless, following consummation of the tender offer, the acquirer would hold at least 98% of the company’s outstanding shares. Furthermore, the shareholders, including those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer, may, at any time within six months following the completion of the tender offer, petition an Israeli court to alter the consideration for the acquisition, unless the acquirer stipulated in its tender offer that a shareholder that accepts the offer may not seek such appraisal rights. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of a number of conditions, including a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are subject to certain restrictions. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when such time expires, the tax becomes payable even if no disposition of the shares has occurred. These and other similar provisions could delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of our company or our merger with another company, even if such an acquisition or merger would be beneficial to us or to our shareholders. Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the New Israeli Shekel, the Euro, the Yen and other non-U.S. currencies may negatively affect the earnings of our operations. We report our financial results and most of our revenues are recorded in U.S. dollars. However, substantially all of the manufacturing, research and development expenses of our Israeli operations, as well as a portion of the cost of revenues, selling and marketing, and general and administrative expenses of our Israeli operations, are incurred in New Israeli Shekels. As a result, we are exposed to exchange rate risks that may adversely affect our financial results. If the New Israeli Shekel appreciates against the U.S. dollar or if the value of the New Israeli Shekel declines against the U.S. dollar at a time when the rate of inflation in the cost of Israeli goods and services exceeds the rate of decline in the relative value of the New Israeli Shekel, then the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel would increase and our results of operations would be adversely affected Our Israeli operations also could be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively hedge against currency fluctuations in the future. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation (if any) of the New Israeli Shekel against the U.S. dollar. The Israeli rate of inflation (deflation) amounted to (0.2%), 1.8%, and 1.6% for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The appreciation (devaluation) of the New Israeli Shekel in relation to the U.S. dollar amounted to (12. 0%), 6.5% and 2.1% for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We also have substantial revenues and expenses that are denominated in non-US currencies other than the New Israeli Shekel), particularly the Euro. Therefore, our operating results and cash flows are also subject to fluctuations due to changes in the relative values of the U.S. dollar and those foreign currencies. These fluctuations could negatively affect our operating results and could cause our revenues and net income or loss to vary from quarter to quarter. Furthermore, to the extent that our revenues increase in regions such as Asia Pacific, where our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, a strengthening of the dollar against other currencies could make our products less competitive in those foreign markets and collection of receivables more difficult. From time to time we engage in currency hedging activities. These measures, however, may not adequately protect us from material adverse effects due to the impact of inflation in Israel or from fluctuations in the relative values of the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies in which we transact business, and may result in a financial loss. For further information, please see “Item 11. Quantitative And Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in this annual report. Calculating our income tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty. We currently receive Israeli government tax benefits in respect of our Israeli operations. If we do not meet several conditions for receipt of those benefits, or if the Israeli government otherwise decides to eliminate those benefits, they may be terminated or reduced, which would impact our income tax rate and increase our costs. 22 The computation of income taxes is complex because it is based on the laws of numerous taxing jurisdictions and requires significant judgment on the application of complicated rules governing accounting for tax provisions under GAAP. Income taxes for interim quarters is based on a forecast of our global tax rate for the year, which includes forward-looking financial projections. Such financial projections are based on numerous assumptions, including the expectations of profit and loss by jurisdiction. It is difficult to accurately forecast various items that make up the projections, and such items may be treated as discrete accounting. Examples of items that could cause variability in our income tax rate include our mix of income by jurisdiction, tax deductions for share option expense, the application of transfer pricing rules, and tax audits. Future events, such as changes in our business and the tax law in the jurisdictions where we do business, could also affect our rate. One important assumption that goes into calculation of our tax rate is the tax benefit that we receive in respect of some of our operations in Israel, referred to as “Approved Enterprise” and “Beneficiary Enterprises,” under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 5719-1959, or the Investment Law. Based on an evaluation of the relevant factors under the Investment Law, including the level of foreign (that is, non-Israeli) investment in our company, we have estimated that our effective tax rate to be paid with respect to all Israeli operations under these benefit programs is 7% to 10%, based on the current balance of activity between our Rehovot, Israel and Kiryat Gat, Israel facilities and the available level of benefits under the law. If we do not meet the requirements for maintaining these benefits, they may be reduced or cancelled and the relevant operations would be subject to Israeli corporate tax at the standard rate, which is currently set at 26.5%. In addition to being subject to the standard corporate tax rate, we could be required to refund any tax benefits that we have already received, plus interest and penalties thereon. Even if we continue to meet the relevant requirements, the tax benefits that our current “Approved Enterprise” and “Beneficiary Enterprise” receive may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. If these tax benefits were reduced or eliminated, the amount of taxes that we pay would likely increase, as all of our operations would consequently be subject to corporate tax at the standard rate, which may cause our global tax rate to be materially different than our estimates and could adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, via acquisitions, our increased activities may not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs, and that could also adversely affect our global tax rate and our results of operations. The Israeli government may furthermore independently determine to reduce, phase out or eliminate entirely the benefit programs under the Investment Law, regardless of whether we then qualify for benefits under those programs at the time, which would also adversely affect our global tax rate and our results of operations. Certain Israeli government grants that we received for certain of our research and development activities in Israel may restrict our ability to transfer manufacturing operations or technology outside of Israel, and failure to satisfy the conditions of those grants with respect to such transfers may require us to obtain a pre-approval from the relevant authorities and pay penalties. Our Israeli-based research and development efforts were and are financed in part, through grants that we received from Israel’s Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Economy, or OCS. Through 2006, Objet received approximately $1.5 million, which it repaid in its entirety (including interest thereon) by the end of 2007. . . . In 2014 we received funding of approximately $430 Thousands under the Generic R&D program to support certain research and development projects in Israel. We must comply with the requirements of the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984, and related regulations, or the Research Law, with respect to those current and past grants. When a company develops know-how, technology or products using OCS grants, the terms of these grants and the Research Law restrict the transfer of such know-how, and the transfer of manufacturing or manufacturing rights of such products, technologies or know-how outside of Israel, without the prior approval of the OCS. Therefore, if aspects of our technologies are deemed to have been developed with OCS funding, the discretionary approval of an OCS committee would be required for any transfer to third parties outside of Israel of know-how or manufacturing or manufacturing rights related to those aspects of such technologies. We may not receive those approvals. Furthermore, the OCS may impose certain conditions on any arrangement under which it permits us to transfer technology or development out of Israel. The transfer of OCS-supported technology or know-how outside of Israel may involve the payment of significant amounts, depending upon the value of the transferred technology or know-how, the amount of OCS support, the time 23 of completion of the OCS-supported research project and other factors. Furthermore, the consideration available to our shareholders in a transaction involving the transfer outside of Israel of technology or know-how developed with OCS funding (such as a merger or similar transaction) may be reduced by any amounts that we are required to pay to the OCS. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us and our officers and directors in Israel or the United States, or to serve process on our officers and directors. We are organized in Israel. Most of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States, and a majority of our assets are located outside of the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of our executive officers and directors in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to effect service of process on these persons in the United States or to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Risks related to an investment in our ordinary shares If certain of our shareholders sell a substantial number of our ordinary shares, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. Former MakerBot stockholders and certain MakerBot employees, former Solid Concepts stockholders and option holders, and certain Solid Concepts employees, and certain Harvest Technologies employees and former stockholders, may resell the ordinary shares that we issued or may issue to them pursuant to the MakerBot transaction, Solid Concepts acquisition or Harvest Technologies acquisition, as applicable, under our Form F-3 registration statement that we filed, which covers the resale of the foregoing groups of shares. Under the terms of the MakerBot and Solid Concepts merger agreements, and the Harvest Technologies stock purchase agreement, we issued at the closing of the transactions on August 15, 2013, July 14, 2014 and August 1, 2014, respectively, 3,921,660 ordinary shares, 978,601 ordinary shares and 175,456 ordinary shares (after withholding certain shares for taxes, where applicable), which may be sold or may have already been sold, in whole or part, to the public following the closings. Those shares together constitute approximately 10% of our issued and outstanding shares, in the aggregate, as of the closing date of the Harvest Technologies acquisition (following the issuance of the shares in the Harvest Technologies acquisition). We may also issue up to an additional 650 thousands ordinary shares, approximately 1,000,000 ordinary shares and approximately 111,000 (based on our share price as of the closing) ordinary shares to the selling shareholders and/or employees in respect of periods through early 2015 , mid-2017 and early 2018 pursuant to the terms of the MakerBot merger agreement, Solid Concepts merger agreement and Harvest Technologies stock purchase agreement, respectively, which may be subsequently resold without restriction (assuming that the related registration statement that we have filed remains in effect). Sales of a significant number of the foregoing shares in a short period of time could have the effect of depressing the market price of our ordinary shares. The market price of our ordinary shares may be subject to fluctuation, regardless of our operating results and financial condition. As a result, our shareholders could incur substantial losses. The market price of our ordinary shares since the Stratasys-Objet merger has been subject to substantial fluctuation. During 2014 and the early part of 2015 (through February 14, 2015), our ordinary shares have traded with closing prices that have ranged from $57.36 to $136.46. It is likely that the price of our ordinary shares will continue to be subject to substantial fluctuation regardless of our operating results or financial condition due to a number of factors, including: •whether we achieve the perceived benefits of the mergers or acquisitions that we consummate as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts; •whether the effects on our business and prospects of the mergers or acquisitions that we consummate are consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts; •variations in our and our competitors’ results of operations and financial condition; 24 •market acceptance of our products; •the mix of products that we sell, and related services that we provide, during any period; •changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; •development of new competitive systems and services by others; •our announcements of technological innovations or new products; •delays between our expenditures to develop and market new or enhanced systems and consumables and the generation of sales from those products; •developments concerning intellectual property rights; •changes in the amount that we spend to develop, acquire or license new products, technologies or businesses; •changes in our expenditures to promote our products and services; •changes in the cost of satisfying our warranty obligations and servicing our installed base of systems; •success or failure of research and development projects of the combined company or its competitors; •the general tendency towards volatility in the market prices of shares of technology companies; and •general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance. These factors and any corresponding price fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and result in substantial losses being incurred by our shareholders. Market prices for securities of technology companies historically have been very volatile. The market for these securities has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of any one company. In the past, following periods of market volatility, public company shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation. Such securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert the resources and attention of our management from our business. Raising additional capital by issuing securities may cause dilution to our shareholders. We may need or desire to raise substantial capital in the future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among others: •the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies and other strategic relationships; •our degree of success in capturing a larger portion of additive manufacturing demand; •the costs of establishing or acquiring sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for our products; •the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and enforcing our issued patents and defending intellectual property-related claims; and •the costs of financing unanticipated working capital requirements and responding to competitive pressures. If we raise funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, it will reduce the percentage ownership of our then-existing shareholders, and the holders of such new securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those possessed by our then-existing shareholders. 25 We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, if our share price does not appreciate, our shareholders may not recognize a return, and could potentially suffer a loss, on their investment in our ordinary shares. We intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our ordinary shares will be investors’ sole source of a return on their investment for the foreseeable future. Even if we decide to pay dividends on our ordinary shares, we may be restricted from doing so or payment of such dividends may have adverse consequences for our company. Under the Companies Law, dividends may only be paid out of our profits and other surplus funds (as defined in the Companies Law) as of the end of the most recent year or as accrued over a period of the most recent two years, whichever amount is greater, provided that there is no reasonable concern that payment of a dividend will prevent us from satisfying our existing and foreseeable obligations as they become due. In the event that we do not meet the profit and surplus funds criteria, we can seek the approval of an Israeli court in order to distribute a dividend. The court may approve our request if it is convinced that there is no reasonable concern that the payment of a dividend will prevent us from satisfying our existing and foreseeable obligations as they become due. Due to the acquisition method of accounting utilized for the Stratasys-Objet merger and the MakerBot transaction under GAAP, pursuant to which we were deemed to have acquired Objet’s assets, we will incur significant annual amounts of depreciation and amortization expense in respect of those assets (see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements appearing in this annual report for more information on the method of accounting for the Stratasys-Objet merger and the MakerBot transaction). These significant annual expenses under GAAP might reduce or eliminate our profits and surplus funds as determined under the Companies Law, and, hence, may restrict our ability to pay dividends (absent court approval). We are furthermore restricted from distributing dividends under the terms of our credit agreement and related agreements that we entered into in November 2013 with Bank of America and the other lenders party thereto. See “Risks related to our business and financial condition—Covenants in our credit agreement may restrict our business in many ways” for more information. In general, the payment of dividends may also be subject to Israeli withholding taxes. In addition, because we receive certain benefits under the Israeli law relating to “Approved Enterprise” and “Beneficiary Enterprise”, our payment of dividends (out of tax-exempt income) may subject us to certain Israeli taxes to which we would not otherwise be subject. See “Risks related to our operations in Israel—The government tax benefits that we currently receive require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs.” We are a foreign private issuer under the rules and regulations of the SEC and are therefore exempt from a number of rules under the Exchange Act and are permitted to file less information with the SEC than a domestic U.S. reporting company, which will reduce the level and amount of disclosure that you receive. As a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act, we are exempt from certain rules under the Exchange Act, including the proxy rules, which impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements for proxy solicitations. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as domestic U.S. companies with securities registered under the Exchange Act; and are not required to comply with Regulation FD, which imposes certain restrictions on the selective disclosure of material information. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules under the Exchange Act with respect to their purchases and sales of our ordinary shares. Accordingly, you receive less information about our company and trading in our shares by our affiliates than you would receive about a domestic U.S. company, and are afforded less protection under the U.S. federal securities laws than you would be afforded in holding securities of a domestic U.S. company. As a foreign private issuer, we are also permitted, and have begun, to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of those otherwise required under the Listing Rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market for domestic U.S. issuers. We have informed NASDAQ that we follow home country practice in Israel with regard to, among other things, composition of our board of directors (whereby a majority of the members of our board of 26 directors need not be “independent directors,” as is generally required for domestic U.S. issuers), director nomination procedure and approval of compensation of officers. In addition, we have opted to follow home country law instead of the Listing Rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market that require that a listed company obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or greater interest in the company, and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. Following our home country governance practices as opposed to the requirements that would otherwise apply to a United States company listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market may provide our shareholders with less protection than they would have as shareholders of a domestic U.S. company. Our status as a foreign private issuer is subject to an annual review and test, and will be tested again as of June 30, 2015 (the last business day of our second fiscal quarter of 2015). If we lose our status as a foreign private issuer, we will no longer be exempt from such rules. Among other things, beginning on January 1, 2016, we would be required to file periodic reports and financial statements as if we were a company incorporated in the U.S., which, among other things, could result in increased compliance and reporting costs to us. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as they apply to a foreign private issuer, or if our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our share price may suffer. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, which requires a company that is subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of its and its subsidiaries’ internal controls over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures, and our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal controls over financial reporting, in each case on an annual basis. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to issue an opinion on the effectiveness on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404. We have prepared for compliance with Section 404 by strengthening, assessing and testing our system of internal controls to provide the basis for our management’s report. The continuous process of strengthening our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is complicated and time-consuming. As our business continues to grow internationally, our internal controls will become more complex and will require significantly more resources and attention to ensure that they remain effective overall. Over the course of testing our internal controls, our management may identify material weaknesses, which may not be remedied in a timely manner on an ongoing basis. If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm identifies material weaknesses in our internal controls, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our share price may suffer. If we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year, after applying certain look-through rules, 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the value of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may be characterized as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Passive income for this purpose generally includes, among other things, certain dividends, interest, royalties, rents and gains from commodities and securities transactions and from the sale or exchange of property that gives rise to passive income. If we are a PFIC, gain realized by a U.S. shareholder on the sale of our ordinary shares may be taxed as ordinary income (rather than as capital gain income), and an interest charge added to the tax. Rules similar to those applicable to the taxation of gains realized on the disposition of our stock would apply to distributions exceeding certain thresholds. Although we do not believe that we were a PFIC in 2014, we cannot assure you that the IRS will agree with that conclusion or that we will not become a PFIC in 2015 or in a subsequent year. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually, and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of our future income and the future value of our assets. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of 27 investing in our ordinary shares. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and related tax consequences, please see Item 10.E, “Additional Information—Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Tax Consequences if We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company”. 