D. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this annual report, before making an investment in our common shares. Any of the risk factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition or operating results, which may reduce our ability to pay dividends or make distributions and lower the trading price of our common shares. You may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business The demand for our services depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and natural gas industry, which is significantly affected by, among other things, volatile oil and natural gas prices and may be materially and adversely affected by a decline in the offshore oil and gas industry. The offshore contract drilling industry is cyclical and volatile. The demand for our services depends on the level of activity in oil and natural gas exploration, development and production in offshore areas worldwide. The availability of quality drilling prospects, exploration success, relative production costs, the stage of reservoir development and political and regulatory environments affect clients’ drilling programs. Oil and natural gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in these prices also significantly affect this level of activity and demand for drilling units. Oil and natural gas prices are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including the following: • worldwide production and demand for oil and natural gas and any geographical dislocations in supply and demand; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas, and the relative cost of onshore production or importation of natural gas; • expectations regarding future production and prices of oil and natural gas; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • the ability of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to set and maintain production levels and affect pricing; • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; • international and U.S. government regulations and policies regarding exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves; 9 Table of Contents • local and international political and economic conditions; • domestic and foreign tax policies; • the development and exploitation of alternative energy sources; and • the worldwide social and political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities, insurrection or other crises in the Middle East, Africa, South America or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the United States, or elsewhere. Declines in oil and gas prices for an extended period of time, or market expectations of potential decreases in these prices, could negatively affect our business in the offshore drilling sector. Sustained periods of low oil prices typically result in reduced exploration and drilling. These changes in commodity prices can have a dramatic effect on rig demand, and periods of low demand can cause excess rig supply and intensify the competition in the industry which often results in drilling units, particularly older and lower technical specification drilling units, being idle for long periods of time. For example, several major exploration and production companies have announced slower year over year growth in 2014 capital expenditure budgets, or even declines in some cases. Additionally, several older, lower-specification deepwater and mid-water drillships and semisubmersibles have recently completed contracts prior to engaging new ones. These developments appear to have exerted some pricing pressure on our market, which may at times be adversely affected by industry conditions beyond our control. We cannot predict the future level of demand for our services or future conditions in the oil and gas industry. Any decrease in exploration, development or production expenditures by oil and gas companies could reduce our revenues and materially harm our business and results of operations. In addition to oil and natural gas prices, the offshore drilling industry is influenced by additional factors, including: • the availability of competing offshore drilling vessels and the level of newbuilding activity for drilling vessels; • the level of costs for associated offshore oilfield and construction services; • the discovery of new oil and gas reserves and their relative production costs; • the relative cost of non-conventional energy sources; and • regulatory restrictions on offshore drilling. Any of these factors could reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have a limited asset base and currently rely on three client accounts. The loss of any client or significant downtime on any drillship attributable to unplanned maintenance, repairs or other factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of our relatively small fleet of drillships, we anticipate revenues will depend on contracts with a limited number of clients. We currently have eight drillships, five of which are operating under client contract. Three of our operating drillships, the Pacific Bora, the Pacific Santa Ana and the Pacific Khamsin are working for subsidiaries of Chevron Corporation (“Chevron”). In addition, one of our drillships under construction, the Pacific Sharav, is also under contract with a subsidiary of Chevron. The Pacific Scirocco is operating with a subsidiary of Total S.A. (“Total”) and the Pacific Mistral is operating with a subsidiary of Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (“Petrobras”). Our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected if any one of these clients was to interrupt or curtail its activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Nigeria or Brazil, fail to pay for the services that have been performed, terminate its contract with us, fail to extend or renew its existing contract with us or refuse to award new contracts to us and we are unable to enter into contracts with new clients on comparable terms. The loss of Chevron, Total or Petrobras as a client could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our limited number of drillships makes 10 Table of Contents us more susceptible to incremental loss in the event of downtime on any one operating unit. If any one of our drillships becomes inactive for a substantial period of time and is not otherwise earning contractual revenues, it could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Delays in the construction of new drillships or the modifications of existing drillships could adversely affect our business. These risks are concentrated because all of our drillships currently on order and under construction are being built by Samsung Heavy Industries (“SHI”) in South Korea. As of February 19, 2014, we had a total of three ultra-deepwater newbuild drillships under construction (the Pacific Sharav, the Pacific Meltem and the Pacific Zonda). We may enter into agreements to commence newbuild projects in the future as part of our growth strategy. Such construction projects are subject to risks of delay inherent in any large construction project, including costs or delays resulting from the following: • shipyard availability; • unexpected delays in delivery times for, or shortages of, key equipment, parts and materials; • shortages of skilled labor and other shipyard personnel necessary to perform the work; • shortages or unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel; • unforeseen design and engineering problems, including those relating to the commissioning of newly designed equipment; • unanticipated actual or purported change orders; • work stoppages and labor disputes; • latent damages or deterioration to hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; • delays in, or inability to obtain, access to financing; • failure or delay of third-party service providers and labor disputes; • disputes with shipyards and suppliers; • our requests for changes to the original rig specifications; • delays and unexpected costs of incorporating parts and materials needed for the completion of projects; • financial or other difficulties at shipyards and suppliers; • adverse weather conditions or storm damage; • inability to obtain required permits or approvals; and • defective construction and the resultant need for remedial work. These factors may contribute to cost variances and delays in the delivery of our newbuild units. Our risks are concentrated because all of our drillships currently on order and under construction are being built by SHI in South Korea. We have entered into a drilling contract for the Pacific Sharav and we intend to enter into drilling contracts for the Pacific Meltem and the Pacific Zonda prior to their delivery if market conditions permit. With respect to the contracts we have or may enter into with respect to these drillships prior to delivery, any delays in the delivery of our drillships would result in a loss of revenue and may subject us to penalties due to delays in contract commencement and may result in termination or shortening of the term of the drilling contract for the rig by the client pursuant to applicable late delivery clauses. We will not receive any material increase in revenue or 11 Table of Contents cash flow from new or modified drillships until they are placed in service and clients enter into binding arrangements for the use of such drillships. In the event of termination of one of these contracts, we may not be able to secure a replacement contract on as favorable terms, or at all. If we experience delays and costs overruns in the construction of our drillships due to any of the factors listed above, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Failure to secure drilling contracts prior to deployment of our remaining newbuild drillships or for our currently operating drillships after the expiration of existing contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have not yet secured drilling contracts for the Pacific Meltem or the Pacific Zonda, which are being built by SHI and are scheduled for delivery in the early part of the third quarter of 2014 and the first quarter of 2015, respectively. The drilling contract for the Pacific Scirocco is scheduled to terminate on January 7, 2015, unless Total chooses to exercise its two-year option on or before April 2014. In addition, the three-year drilling contract for the Pacific Mistral with Petrobras is scheduled to terminate on February 6, 2015. Our ability to obtain drilling contracts for these drillships will depend on market conditions and our clients’ drilling programs. If the ultra-deepwater drilling market is experiencing overcapacity prior to delivery of the Pacific Meltem or the Pacific Zonda or near the expiration of the contracts for our currently operating drillships, we may not be able to secure contracts for these drillships on favorable terms, or at all. Our failure to secure drilling contracts for our uncontracted drillships or currently operating drillships after the expiration of existing contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the failure to secure a drilling contract for the Pacific Meltem prior to its delivery will decrease our borrowing capacity under the Senior Secured Credit Facility Agreement (as defined below) by an estimated amount of approximately $95 million. Our business and the industry in which we operate involve numerous operating hazards which, if they occur, may cause a material adverse effect to our business. Our operations are subject to the usual hazards inherent in the drilling and operation of oil and natural gas wells, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, craterings, fires, explosions, spills and pollution. The occurrence of any of these events could result in the suspension of our drilling or production operations, claims by the operator, severe damage to, or destruction of, the property and equipment involved, injury or death to drilling unit personnel and environmental and natural resources damage. Our operations could be suspended as a result of these hazards whether the fault is ours or that of a third party. In certain circumstances, governmental authorities may suspend drilling operations as a result of these hazards, and our clients may cancel or terminate their contracts. We may also be subject to personal injury and other claims of drilling unit personnel as a result of our drilling operations. Our operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal operating conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services and personnel shortages. In addition, our operations will be subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. Severe weather could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our drilling units could be damaged by high winds, turbulent seas or unstable sea bottom conditions which could potentially cause us to curtail operations for significant periods of time until such damages are repaired. Our current backlog of contract drilling revenue may not be fully realized. As of February 19, 2014, we had a contract backlog on the Pacific Bora, the Pacific Scirocco, the Pacific Mistral, the Pacific Santa Ana, the Pacific Khamsin and the Pacific Sharav of approximately $3.1 billion (including the conditional commitment on the Pacific Bora). We calculate our contract backlog by multiplying the contractual dayrate by the minimum number of days committed under the contracts (excluding options to extend), assuming full utilization, and also include mobilization fees, upgrade reimbursements and other revenue 12 Table of Contents sources, such as the standby rate during upgrades, as stipulated in the contracts. The actual amounts of revenues earned and the actual periods during which revenues are earned may differ from the amounts and periods shown in the tables provided in Item 4, “Business Overview—Contract Backlog” of this annual report due to various factors, including shipyard and maintenance projects, downtime during the shakedown period for new drilling units and other factors. The contractual dayrate used to calculate average estimated contract backlog per day is higher than other rates that may be in effect at certain times under the contract, including the standby rate or waiting on weather rate, the repair rate or the force majeure rate. We may not be able to realize the full amount of our contract backlog due to events beyond our control. In addition, some of our clients may experience liquidity issues, which could worsen if commodity prices declined to lower levels for an extended period of time. Liquidity issues could lead our clients to seek to repudiate, cancel or renegotiate these agreements for various reasons, as described under “—Our drilling contracts may be terminated early in certain circumstances” below. Our inability to realize the full amount of our contract backlog could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may experience unplanned downtime as a result of unscheduled repairs or maintenance, human error, defective or failed equipment or delays waiting for replacement parts. Unscheduled repairs or maintenance, human error, defective or failed equipment or delays waiting for replacement parts on our drillships may cause us to experience unanticipated operational downtime, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we rely on certain third parties to provide supplies and services necessary for our offshore drilling operations, including, but not limited to, drilling equipment, catering and machinery suppliers. Mergers in our industry have reduced the number of available suppliers, resulting in fewer alternatives for sourcing key supplies. Such consolidation, combined with a high volume of drilling units under construction, may result in a shortage of supplies and services potentially inhibiting the ability of suppliers to deliver on time, or at all. These delays may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and result in downtime, and delays in the repair and maintenance of our drillships. We have substantial obligations to fund contracts and other arrangements related to the construction of our newbuild drillships. If we fail to meet these obligations or construction of these newbuild drillships is not completed, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could adversely affect our ability to meet our other obligations. We have significant contractual commitments to SHI related to our drillships currently under construction, the Pacific Sharav, the Pacific Meltem and the Pacific Zonda, totaling approximately $1.1 billion as of February 19, 2014. The SHI contracts for the Pacific Sharav, the Pacific Meltem and the Pacific Zonda provide for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion, payable in installments during the construction process, of which we have made payments of $429.2 million through February 19, 2014. We anticipate making payments of approximately $756.3 million during the remainder of 2014 and approximately $336.4 million in 2015. In addition, we will need to secure additional financing, which is uncommitted at this time, before repaying outstanding borrowings under our private placement of $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 8.25% senior unsecured U.S. dollar denominated bonds due in February 2015 (the “2015 Senior Unsecured Bonds”) and taking delivery of the Pacific Zonda in the first quarter of 2015. In the event that we order additional drillships, we will also need to secure funding for construction of such vessels. The final terms and availability of any additional financing will be determined by, among other factors, current financial market conditions, our creditworthiness and drilling industry conditions. We may be unable to obtain or arrange any additional financing on satisfactory terms. Also, our current and future drillships under construction could be delayed or otherwise not delivered by the shipyard. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents We have entered into a drilling contract for the Pacific Sharav and we intend to enter into drilling contracts for the Pacific Meltem and the Pacific Zonda prior to their delivery, if market conditions permit. If any of these newbuild drillships are delayed, cancelled or not delivered as expected for any reason upon completion of construction, we will not be able to deliver the drillship to our client under the drilling contract entered into for such drillship and for which we provide a performance guarantee. In such event, we will need to find a replacement unit that is acceptable to our client. If we are unable to deliver an acceptable replacement, we will lose any anticipated income from the employment of such unit and may be held liable for the client’s potential damages, including, but not limited to, any increase in rates between our current drilling contract with the client and any substitute drilling contract such client may obtain. If we were to lose all or a portion of our investment, including any anticipated revenue from the operation of a drillship, or become liable to a client for such damages, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The contract drilling industry is highly competitive. Compared to companies with greater resources, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. The offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants, none of which has a dominant market share. Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. The proposed pricing is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a contract, although rig availability and the quality and technical capability of service and equipment are also important factors. Other key factors include a contractor’s reputation for service, safety record, environmental record, technical and engineering support and long-term relationships with national and international oil and natural gas companies. Our competitors in the offshore contract drilling industry generally have larger, more diverse fleets, longer operating histories with established safety and environmental records over a measurable period of time, long-term relationships with clients and appreciably greater financial and other resources and assets than we do. Similarly, some of these competitors are significantly better capitalized than we are, which may make them preferable to us to the extent the client is concerned about our ability to cover potentially significant liabilities. As a result, our competitors have competitive advantages that may adversely affect our efforts to contract our drillships on favorable terms, if at all, and correspondingly negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, we are at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors that are better capitalized because they are in a better position to withstand the effects of a downturn in our industry. An oversupply of rigs competing with our rigs could depress the demand and contract prices for ultra-deepwater rigs and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. There are numerous rigs currently under contract for construction in the industry worldwide. We estimate there are approximately 66 ultra-deepwater rigs scheduled for delivery between January 1, 2014 and the end of 2016, 32 of which are not yet contracted to clients. The entry into service of these new units will increase supply and could curtail a strengthening, or trigger a reduction, in dayrates as rigs are absorbed into the active fleet. Any increase in construction of drilling units could negatively impact utilization and dayrates. Lower utilization and dayrates could require us to enter into lower dayrate contracts or to idle one or more of our drillships, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or result in the recognition of impairment charges on our drillships. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and business prospects. As of February 19, 2014, we and our subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, had approximately $2.4 billion of debt, comprised of (i) $750.0 million under our 5.375% Senior Secured Notes due 2020 (the “2020 Senior Secured Notes”), (ii) $742.9 million under our senior secured institutional term loan (the “Senior Secured Term Loan B”), (iii) $140.0 million under our SSCF (as defined below), (iv) $500.0 million from our private placement of $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.25% senior secured U.S. dollar denominated notes due in 2017 (the “2017 Senior Secured Notes”) and (v) $300.0 million under our 8.25% Senior Unsecured Bonds due 2015 (each described in further detail in Item 5, “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Description of Indebtedness” 14 Table of Contents and Note 4 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report). Our level of indebtedness, and the terms of the agreements that govern such indebtedness, may have important consequences on our business such as: • requiring us and our subsidiaries to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the debt, which would reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments, which may limit our ability to execute our business strategy; • heightening our vulnerability to downturns in business or the general economy and restricting us from exploiting business opportunities or making acquisitions; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt; • limiting our ability to return cash to our shareholders; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • higher interest expense if interest rates increase for the portion of our indebtedness that has not been hedged. Each of these factors may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and business prospects. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. If we incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we now face would intensify and could exacerbate the risks associated with our current leverage. Our ability to service our debt depends upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which is affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our cash flows from operations are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as postponing or reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-bribery laws. The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), the Nigerian Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offenses Act of 2000, Brazil’s Anti Corruption Law of 2014 and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making, offering or authorizing improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We operate in several countries where strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Violations of or any non-compliance with current and future anti-bribery laws (either due to our acts or our inadvertence or acts of our agents) may result in criminal and civil sanctions and could subject us to other liabilities in the U.S. and elsewhere. Even allegations of such violations could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or using other methods that U.S. and foreign laws and regulations and our own policies prohibit us from using. In order to effectively compete in some foreign jurisdictions, we utilize local agents and/or establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners. For example, in Nigeria, we have established the Pacific International Drilling West Africa Limited (“PIDWAL”) joint venture, which is 90% owned by us and 10% 15 Table of Contents owned by Derotech Offshore Services Limited (“Derotech”), a privately-held Nigerian registered limited liability company. PIDWAL is party to the contracts with subsidiaries of Chevron for the Pacific Bora and the Pacific Khamsin and the contract with a subsidiary of Total for the Pacific Scirocco. Derotech is also performing marketing services for PIDWAL. In addition, we entered into an agreement with a marketing agent in Brazil and have agreements with agents in both Nigeria and Brazil, pursuant to which the agents, among other activities, process visas, customs clearance of routine shipments of equipment, materials and supplies and process temporary importation permits, extensions and renewals. One of our logistics and supply-chain agents in Nigeria is an affiliate of Derotech. All of these activities involve interaction by our agents with non-U.S. government officials. Even though some of our agents and partners may not themselves be subject to the FCPA or other non-U.S. anti-bribery laws to which we may be subject, if our agents or partners make improper payments to non-U.S. government officials in connection with engagements or partnerships with us, we could be investigated and potentially found liable for violation of such anti-bribery laws and could incur civil and criminal penalties and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our drilling contracts may be terminated early in certain circumstances. Our contracts with clients may be terminated at the option of the client upon payment of an early termination fee, which is typically a significant percentage of the dayrate or the standby rate under the drilling contract for a specified period of time. Such payments may not, however, fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Our contracts also provide for termination by the client without the payment of any termination fee, under various circumstances, typically including, but not limited to, our non-performance, as a result of downtime or impaired performance caused by equipment or operational issues, or sustained periods of downtime due to force majeure events. Many of these events are beyond our control. During periods of depressed market conditions, we are subject to an increased risk of our clients seeking to terminate their contracts, including through claims of non-performance. Our clients’ ability to perform their obligations under their drilling contracts with us may also be negatively impacted by continuing global economic uncertainty. If our clients terminate some of our contracts, and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, or if payments due under our contracts are suspended for an extended period of time or if a number of our contracts are renegotiated, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our contract drilling operations may be adversely affected by various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate relating to the equipment and operation of drilling units, oil and natural gas exploration and development and import and export activities. Governments in some foreign countries have been increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration for oil and natural gas and other aspects of the oil and natural gas industries in their countries, including local content requirements for participating in tenders for certain drilling contracts. Many governments favor or effectively require that drilling contracts be awarded to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may result in inefficiencies or put us at a disadvantage when we bid for contracts against local competitors. In addition, the shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import and export activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Moreover, many countries control the import and export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related import and export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments also may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities, and we are also subject to the U.S. anti-boycott law. 16 Table of Contents The laws and regulations concerning import and export activity, recordkeeping and reporting, import and export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our operations. A global economic downturn may increase some foreign governments’ efforts to enact, enforce, amend or interpret laws and regulations as a method to increase revenue. Shipments can be delayed and denied import or export for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside our control and some of which may result from failure to comply with existing legal and regulatory regimes. Shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled operational downtime. Any failure to comply with these applicable legal and regulatory obligations also could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges. We may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available in the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. Our business is subject to numerous governmental laws and regulations, including environmental requirements that may impose significant costs and liabilities on us. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign or international laws and regulations that may require us to obtain and maintain specific permits or other governmental approvals to control the discharge of oil and other contaminants into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Countries where we operate have environmental laws and regulations governing our discharge of oil and other contaminants and imposing stringent standards on our activities that are protective of the environment. Any operations and activities that we conduct in the United States and its territorial waters also will be subject to numerous environmental laws, including the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA”), the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (“OCSLA”), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (“MARPOL”), as each has been amended from time to time, and analogous state laws. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and treaties may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations and the issuance of injunctions that may limit or prohibit some or all of our operations. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years and may in certain circumstances impose strict liability, rendering us liable for environmental and natural resource damages caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. The application of these laws and regulations, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations that curtail exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and natural gas could materially limit future contract drilling opportunities or materially increase our costs, including our capital expenditures. The imposition of stringent restrictions or prohibitions on offshore drilling by a governing body may have a material adverse effect on our business. Catastrophic events in past years resulting in the release of oil or other contaminants offshore have heightened environmental and regulatory concerns about the oil and natural gas industry, which concerns may have a direct adverse impact on the demand for our services. For example, in response to the April 2010 fire and explosion aboard the Deep Water Horizon drilling rig and resulting oil spill from the Macondo well operated by a third party in ultra-deep water of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the federal government, acting through the U.S. Department of the Interior (“DOI”) and its implementing agencies that have since evolved into the present day Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (“BOEM”) and Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (“BSEE”), have issued various rules, Notices to Lessees and Operators (“NTLs”) and temporary drilling moratoria that impose or result in added environmental and safety measures upon oil and natural gas exploration, development and production operators in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, some of whom are our clients. These regulatory initiatives may serve to effectively slow down the pace of drilling and production operations in the 17 Table of Contents U.S. Gulf of Mexico due to adjustments in operating procedures and certification requirements as well as increased lead times to obtain exploration and production plan reviews. We could become subject to fines, penalties or orders requiring us to modify or suspend our operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico if we fail to comply with these requirements. For example, BSEE has extended its regulatory enforcement reach to include contractors as well as offshore lease operators. Consequently, the BSEE may elect to hold contractors, including drilling contractors, liable for alleged violations of law arising in the BSEE’s jurisdictional area. Any one or more of these uncertainties could result in increased future operating costs, including insurance costs, which we may not be able to pass through to our clients. The U.S. Gulf of Mexico represents a significant portion of the industry’s existing deepwater drillship demand. The regulations and other regulatory initiatives effected by DOI, BOEM and BSEE have created significant uncertainty regarding the requirements to perform offshore drilling activity in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and possible implications for regions outside of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. If the regulations, operating procedures and possibility of increased legal liability are viewed by our current or future clients as a significant impairment to expected profitability on drilling projects in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, deepwater drillships and other floating rigs could depart the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, which would likely affect the global supply and demand balance for such drillships and rigs, resulting in lower dayrates and/or utilization and a more competitive and challenging business environment in the international sector. Our business could be affected adversely by union disputes and strikes or work stoppages by our employees. In addition, our labor costs and the operating restrictions under which we operate could increase as a result of collective bargaining negotiations and changes in labor laws and regulations. Some of our employees working in Nigeria and Brazil are represented by unions, and some of our contracted labor work under collective bargaining agreements. Many of these represented individuals are working under agreements that are subject to annual salary negotiations. We cannot guarantee the results of any such collective bargaining negotiations or whether any such negotiations will result in a work stoppage. In addition, employees may strike for reasons unrelated to our union arrangements. Any future work stoppage could, depending on the affected operations and the length of the work stoppage, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, we could enter markets other than Brazil or Nigeria, which also contain unions and could result in higher costs. These negotiations could result in higher personnel expenses, other increased costs or increased operational restrictions. Although our U.S. employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the marine services industry has been targeted by maritime labor unions in an effort to organize U.S. Gulf of Mexico employees. In addition, legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress that could encourage additional unionization efforts in the United States, as well as increase the chances that such efforts succeed. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers or the unionization of our U.S. Gulf of Mexico employees could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. Additional unionization efforts, if successful, or new collective bargaining agreements could materially increase our labor costs. Shortages of equipment, spare parts and ancillary services could have a negative impact on our operations. Our operations rely on the timely supply of equipment and spare parts to maintain and repair our fleet. We also rely on the supply of ancillary services, including, among others, supply boats, helicopter services, catering services and engineering and technical services. Shortages in materials, delays in the delivery of necessary spare parts, equipment or other materials, or the unavailability of ancillary services could negatively impact our operations and result in increases in rig downtime and delays in the repair and maintenance of our fleet. 18 Table of Contents Our global operations may be adversely affected by political and economic circumstances in the countries in which we operate. A significant portion of our business is conducted in Nigeria, which exposes us to risks of war, local economic instabilities, corruption, political disruption and civil disturbance in that region. A primary component of our business strategy is to operate in global oil and natural gas producing areas. We are subject to a number of risks inherent in any business that operates globally, including: • political, social and economic instability, war, piracy and acts of terrorism; • potential seizure, expropriation or nationalization of assets; • damage to our equipment or violence directed at our employees, including kidnappings; • increased operating costs; • complications associated with supplying, repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; • repudiation, modification or renegotiation of contracts; • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk and named windstorm coverage in certain areas; • import-export quotas; • confiscatory taxation; • work stoppages; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • wage and price controls; • imposition of trade barriers; • imposition or changes in interpretation and enforcement of local content laws, such as those we must currently comply with in Nigeria and Brazil; • restrictions on currency or capital repatriations; • solicitation by government officials for improper payments or other forms of corruption; • currency fluctuations and devaluations; and • other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control. These risks may be higher in developing countries such as Nigeria, where the Pacific Bora, the Pacific Scirocco and the Pacific Khamsin currently operate. Countries in West Africa have experienced political and economic instability in the past and such instability may continue in the future. Additionally, during the period from 2000 to 2014, more Foreign Corrupt Practice Act violations were prosecuted in Nigeria than in any other jurisdiction worldwide. Furthermore, there are significant sectarian tensions in Nigeria among the numerous different ethnic and tribal groups, which have resulted in sporadic violence. Disruptions may occur in the future, and losses caused by these disruptions may not be covered by insurance. 19 Table of Contents Our 2020 Senior Secured Notes, our Senior Secured Term Loan B, our Revolving Credit Facility, our 2015 Senior Unsecured Bonds, our 2017 Senior Secured Notes and the Senior Secured Credit Facility Agreement impose significant operating and financial restrictions on certain of our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions. Our 2020 Senior Secured Notes, our Senior Secured Term Loan B and our senior secured revolving credit facility with an aggregate principal amount of up to $500.0 million, which permits loans to be extended up to a maximum sublimit of $200.0 million and permits letters of credit to be issued up to a maximum sublimit of $300.0 million (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), contain several restrictions on our activities. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things: • make certain types of loans and investments; • make dividends or other payments, redeem or repurchase stock, prepay, redeem or repurchase other debt or make other restricted payments; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • create or incur liens; • sell assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; • engage in transactions with affiliates; and • enter into new lines of business. The Revolving Credit Facility also contains financial covenants that impose significant restrictions on us, including requirements to maintain certain liquidity levels and financial ratios. Our 2015 Senior Unsecured Bonds contain provisions that limit, with certain exceptions, the ability of the Company and our subsidiaries to (i) merge or demerge, (ii) dispose of assets, (iii) incur financial indebtedness and (iv) pay dividends or make distributions. The bonds also require compliance with financial covenants. The 2015 Senior Unsecured Bonds contain events of default that are usual and customary for a financing of this type, size and purpose. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, borrowings under the 2015 Senior Unsecured Bonds are subject to acceleration. The 2017 Senior Secured Notes contain provisions that limit, with certain exceptions, the ability of Pacific Drilling S.A., Pacific Drilling VII Limited as the Issuer and Pacific Drilling S.A.’s other restricted subsidiaries to (i) pay dividends or make distributions, purchase or redeem Pacific Drilling S.A.’s capital stock or subordinated indebtedness of the Issuer or any guarantor or make other restricted payments, (ii) incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock, (iii) create or incur liens, (iv) create unrestricted subsidiaries, (v) enter into transactions with affiliates, (vi) enter into new lines of business, (vii) transfer or sell the Pacific Khamsin and other related assets and (viii) merge or demerge. The Senior Secured Credit Facility Agreement, as amended and restated (the “SSCF”), contains certain restrictions on our activities (as guarantor thereunder), including our ability to pay dividends or make distributions and transact with affiliates. The SSCF also contains several restrictions on the activities of our subsidiaries, Pacific Sharav S.à r.l. and Pacific Drilling VII Limited (each of which is a borrower under the SSCF), including, among other things, restrictions on their ability to: • make certain types of loans and investments; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • create or incur liens; • make dividends or distributions; • sell assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; 20 Table of Contents • engage in transactions with affiliates; and • enter into new lines of business. The SSCF also contains a number of financial covenants that impose significant restrictions on us, including requirements that we maintain certain liquidity levels and financial ratios. The restrictions and covenants contained in our debt agreements may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in our best interest and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that could subject us to additional restrictive covenants, which could affect our financial and operational flexibility. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including meeting financial ratios and tests, may be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants and restrictions could result in a default under the agreements governing our debt, as described in “—An event of default may be triggered by the occurrence of events in connection with our other indebtedness.” The occurrence of an event of default under any of our debt agreements could cause the relevant debt holders to accelerate our indebtedness. In the event of any debt acceleration, we may not be able to repay our outstanding indebtedness, which could lead such debt holders to initiate bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings. An event of default may be triggered by the occurrence of events in connection with our other indebtedness. Our indebtedness consists of a number of different obligations, each governed by a separate agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness, an event of default may be triggered by the occurrence of some or all of the following events in connection with our other indebtedness: (i) failure to make payments when due or upon maturity, (ii) acceleration of other indebtedness and (iii) events of default due to breaches of covenants or otherwise under the agreements governing other indebtedness. An event of default under any of our debt agreements could permit some of the lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them due and payable. In addition, debt under other debt agreements that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness, and we may not be able to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, such financing might not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable. If we were unable to repay amounts borrowed, the holders of the debt could initiate a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding. See Item 5, “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Description of Indebtedness” and Note 4 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report for a description of the restrictions and covenants applicable to our 2020 Senior Secured Notes, the Senior Secured Term Loan B, the Revolving Credit Facility, the 2015 Senior Unsecured Bonds, the 2017 Senior Secured Notes and the SSCF. Operating and maintenance costs will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. We do not expect operating and maintenance costs to fluctuate in direct proportion to changes in operating revenues. The principal components of our operating costs are, among other things, direct and indirect costs of labor and benefits, maintenance and spare parts and insurance. Operating revenues may fluctuate as a function of changes in dayrates. However, costs for operating a drillship are generally fixed or only semi-variable regardless of the dayrate being earned. In addition, should one of our drillships incur idle time between contracts, we would typically maintain the crew to prepare the drillship for its next contract and would not reduce costs to correspond with the decrease in revenue. During times of moderate activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate, as the crew may be required to prepare the drillship for stacking, after which time the crew will be reduced to a level necessary to maintain the drillship in working condition with the extra crew members assigned to active drillships or dismissed. In addition, as drillships are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity a drillship is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. 21 Table of Contents An inability to retain a sufficient number of skilled workers on commercially reasonable terms could negatively affect our operations. We require skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services to, and support for, our drillships. In periods of increasing activity and when the number of operating units in our areas of operation increases, either because of new construction, re-activation of idle units or the mobilization of units into the region, shortages of qualified personnel could arise, creating upward pressure on wages, higher turnover and difficulty in staffing. A shortage of qualified personnel, the inability to obtain and retain qualified personnel or a reduction in the experience level of our personnel as a result of increased turnover could negatively affect the quality and timeliness of our work and lead to higher downtime and more operating incidents, which in turn could decrease revenues and increase costs. If increased competition for labor were to intensify in the future, we may experience increases in costs or limits on operations. In addition, our ability to expand operations depends in part upon our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. An inability to obtain visas and work permits for our employees on a timely basis could negatively affect our operations and have an adverse effect on our business. Our ability to operate worldwide depends on our ability to obtain the necessary visas and work permits for our personnel to travel in and out of, and to work in, the jurisdictions in which we operate. Governmental actions in some of the jurisdictions in which we operate may make it difficult for us to move our personnel in and out of these jurisdictions by delaying or withholding the approval of these permits. If we are not able to obtain visas and work permits for the employees we need for operating our drillships on a timely basis, we might not be able to perform our obligations under our drilling contracts, which could allow our clients to cancel the contracts. If our clients cancel some of our contracts, and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain our competitiveness and to comply with laws and the applicable regulations and standards of governmental authorities and organizations, which would negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in offshore drilling technology, client requirements for new or upgraded equipment and competition within our industry may require us to make significant capital expenditures in order to maintain our competitiveness. Our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we have, which may enable them to make technological improvements to existing equipment or replace equipment that becomes obsolete. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations, may require us to make additional unforeseen capital expenditures. For example, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to satisfy requirements of the U.S. Coast Guard and the American Bureau of Shipping. As a result, we may be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues, in order to make such alterations or to add such equipment. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate our older vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. If we are unable to fund these capital expenditures with cash flow from operations, we may either incur additional borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our ability to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time, by changes in laws and regulations (or interpretation thereof) and by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity securities, existing shareholders may experience dilution. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures would limit our ability to continue to operate some of our vessels and could have a material adverse effect on our business and on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 22 Table of Contents Worldwide economic and financial problems may materially reduce our revenue, profitability and cash flows. Worldwide economic and financial problems may reduce the availability of liquidity and credit to fund business operations worldwide and could adversely affect our clients, suppliers and lenders. The global recession caused a reduction in worldwide demand for energy. Demand for our services depends on activity in the oil and natural gas industry and capital expenditure levels, each of which is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas demand. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas demand would further depress the current levels of exploration, development and production activity. Perceptions of lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and natural gas companies over the long-term can similarly reduce or delay major expenditures. Lower levels of activity may result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Technology disputes involving us, our suppliers or sub-suppliers could negatively impact our operations or increase our costs. Drilling units and drilling rig operations use patented or otherwise proprietary technology and, consequently, involve a potential risk of infringement of third party rights. In the event that we or one of our suppliers or sub-suppliers becomes involved in a dispute over infringement of intellectual property rights relating to equipment owned or used by us, we may lose access to repair services or replacement parts, or we could be required to cease use of some equipment. We could also be required to pay royalties for the use of such equipment. Any technology disputes involving us or our suppliers or sub-suppliers could adversely affect our financial results and operations. We have been sued for patent infringement which, if adversely determined, could result in us being forced to pay significant royalties to Transocean or to make indemnity payments to our clients. On April 16, 2013, Transocean filed a complaint against us alleging infringement of their dual activity patents. We are currently in the claim construction and discovery phase of our lawsuit with Transocean. The patents in question are also the subject of pending actions in the United States against Maersk Drilling (“Maersk”) and Stena Drilling. Transocean sued Maersk for infringing Transocean’s U.S. patents involving dual activity on drilling assemblies. In April 2011, a jury determined that Maersk had not established that the asserted patent claims were invalid, that Maersk had infringed those claims, and awarded Transocean $15 million for Maersk’s infringement. On June 30, 2011, the judge presiding over the case entered a Final Judgment disregarding the jury award and entering judgment in Maersk’s favor, determining as a matter of law that the asserted patent claims were invalid for obviousness and lack of enablement and that Maersk had not infringed. On July 27, 2011, the judge issued an Amended Final Judgment, again holding that Maersk did not infringe the asserted claims and that the asserted claims were invalid. Transocean appealed this judgment and, in November 2012, prevailed on appeal. In January 2013, Maersk filed a petition for panel rehearing and rehearing en banc before the court of appeals, which was denied. Subsequently, in July 2013, Maersk filed a petition for certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court, which remains pending. The Stena Drilling case has not yet gone to trial. If our lawsuit with Transocean is adversely determined, we could be forced to pay significant royalties to Transocean or make indemnity payments to our clients. Dual gradient drilling techniques may not result in the currently expected benefits and, as a result, demand may not develop for these capabilities. Several of our drillships have, or upon completion will have, dual gradient drilling capabilities subject to certain modifications to be made to the drillships. The Pacific Santa Ana is currently capable of dual gradient drilling. Dual gradient drilling is a technology that allows two different pressure gradients to be maintained in the well (one in the drilling riser and one in the well below the mudline) by a process of replacing mud from the drilling riser with a seawater-density fluid. Although dual gradient drilling technology was technically proven ten years ago, the Pacific Santa Ana is the first rig to deploy this technology for commercial application. Dual gradient drilling may not result in expected savings in cost and time per well, higher flow rates and greater access to “undrillable” reserves and, as a result, demand may not develop for these capabilities. 23 Table of Contents The dual gradient drilling concept being deployed by the Pacific Santa Ana is disclosed in patents assigned to Chevron, for which we have been granted a license as of February 1, 2014. Despite having been granted a license, a court could interpret that we are only permitted to use our license for dual gradient drilling operations in our drilling units if our drilling contracts with Chevron for the Pacific Santa Ana or the Pacific Sharav (or any subsequent dual gradient capable rig) remain in effect. In the event that the ongoing commercial application of dual gradient drilling does not result in expected benefits to our clients, demand does not develop for these capabilities or our license with Chevron is found to be invalid, this technology may not result in the currently expected benefits. There may be limits on our ability to mobilize drillships between geographic areas, and the time and costs of such mobilizations may be material to our business. The offshore contract drilling market is generally a global market as drilling units may be mobilized from one area to another. However, the ability to mobilize drilling units can be impacted by several factors including, but not limited to, governmental regulation and customs practices, the significant costs to move a drilling unit, weather, political instability, civil unrest, military actions and the technical capability of the drilling units to operate in various environments. Additionally, while a drillship is being mobilized from one geographic market to another, we may not be paid by the client for the time that the drillship is out of service. Also, we may mobilize a drillship to another geographic market without a client contract, which will result in costs not reimbursable by future clients. We are a holding company and are dependent upon cash flow from subsidiaries to meet our obligations. If our operating subsidiaries experience sufficiently adverse changes in their financial position or results of operations, or we otherwise become unable to pay our debts as they become due and obtain further credit, we may become subject to Luxembourg insolvency proceedings. As we currently conduct our operations through, and most of our assets are owned by, our subsidiaries, our operating income and cash flow are generated by our subsidiaries. As a result, cash we obtain from our subsidiaries is the principal source of funds necessary to meet our obligations. Contractual provisions or laws, as well as our subsidiaries’ financial condition, operating requirements and debt requirements, may limit our ability to obtain cash from subsidiaries that we require to pay our expenses or meet our current or future debt service obligations. Applicable tax laws may also subject such payments to us by subsidiaries to further taxation. If our operating subsidiaries experience sufficiently adverse changes in their financial position or results of operations, or we otherwise become unable to pay our debts as they become due and obtain further credit, we may enter a state of cessation of payments (cessation de paiements) and lose our commercial creditworthiness (ébranlement de credit), which could result in the commencement of insolvency proceedings in Luxembourg. Such proceedings would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows and could have a significant negative impact on the market price of our common shares. The loss of some of our key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business. Our future operational performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of our management as well as marketing, sales and operations personnel. The loss of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and operations personnel. We may experience intense competition for personnel, and we may not be able to retain key employees or be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. Our insurance may not be adequate in the event of a catastrophic loss. Damage to the environment could result from our operations, particularly through oil spillage or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to property, environmental, natural resource and other damage claims by oil and natural gas companies, other businesses operating offshore and in coastal areas, environmental 24 Table of Contents conservation groups, governmental entities and other third parties. Insurance policies and contractual rights to indemnity may not adequately cover losses, and we may not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. Moreover, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. As a result of the number of catastrophic events in the offshore drilling industry in recent years, such as hurricanes in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig incident, insurance underwriters have increased insurance premiums and increased restrictions on coverage. In particular, hurricane losses in recent years have impacted named windstorm insurance coverage, rates and availability for U.S Gulf of Mexico area exposures. Losses caused by the occurrence of a significant event against which we are not fully insured, or caused by a number of lesser events against which we are insured but are subject to substantial deductibles, aggregate limits and/or self-insured amounts, could materially increase our costs and impair our profitability and financial condition. Our policy limits for property, casualty, liability and business interruption insurance, including coverage for severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, may not be adequate should a catastrophic event occur related to our property, plant or equipment, or our insurers may not have adequate financial resources to sufficiently or fully pay related claims or damages. When any of our coverage expires, adequate replacement coverage may not be available, offered at reasonable prices or offered by insurers with sufficient financial resources. We have a relatively limited operating history, which makes it more difficult to accurately forecast our future results and may make it difficult for investors to evaluate our business and our future prospects, both of which will increase the risk of your investment in our common shares. We began to recognize operating revenue when the Pacific Bora commenced drilling operations on August 26, 2011. The Pacific Scirocco, the Pacific Mistral, the Pacific Santa Ana and the Pacific Khamsin commenced drilling operations and began generating operating revenues on December 31, 2011, February 6, 2012, May 4, 2012 and December 17, 2013, respectively. Following shipyard construction, commissioning and testing, the Pacific Sharav, the Pacific Meltem and the Pacific Zonda are expected to be delivered to us at the shipyard in the early part of the second quarter 2014, in the early part of the third quarter of 2014 and the first quarter of 2015, respectively. Upon delivery, the Pacific Sharav is expected to enter service in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in the third quarter of 2014 under a five-year contract with a subsidiary of Chevron. Because of our relatively limited operating history, we lack extensive historical financial and operational data, making it more difficult for an investor to evaluate our business, forecast our future revenues and other operating results and assess the merits and risks of an investment in our common shares. This lack of information will increase the risk of your investment in our common shares. Moreover, investors should consider and evaluate our prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies with a limited operating history. These risks and difficulties include challenges in accurate financial planning as a result of limited historical data and the uncertainties resulting from having had a relatively limited time period in which to implement and evaluate our business strategies as compared to older companies with longer operating histories. If we are not able to successfully meet these challenges, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our clients may be unable or unwilling to indemnify us. Consistent with standard industry practice, our clients generally assume, and indemnify us against, well control and subsurface risks under our dayrate contracts. These risks are associated with the loss of control of a well, such as blowout or cratering, the cost to regain control or redrill the well and associated pollution. However, our indemnification may not cover all damages, claims or losses to us or third parties, and the client may not have sufficient resources to cover their indemnification obligations or the client may contest their obligation to indemnify us. Also, in the interest of maintaining good relations with our key clients, we may 25 Table of Contents choose not to assert certain indemnification claims. In addition, from time to time, we may be unable to negotiate contracts containing indemnity provisions that obligate our clients to indemnify us for such damages and risks. Our financial condition may be adversely affected if we fail to successfully integrate acquired assets, joint venture partners or businesses we acquire, or are unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms. We believe that acquisition or joint venture opportunities may arise from time to time, and any such acquisition or joint venture could be significant. At any given time, discussions with one or more potential sellers or partners may be at different stages. However, any such discussions may not result in the consummation of a transaction, and we may not be able to identify or complete any transactions. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of such a transaction would have on the trading price of our common shares. Any future acquisitions or joint ventures could present a number of risks, including: • the risk of using management time and resources to pursue acquisitions that are not successfully completed; • the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations; • the risk of failing to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and timely; and • the risk of diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities. If we are unsuccessful in integrating any acquisitions or joint ventures in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our potential purchase of existing vessels carries risks associated with the quality of those vessels. In the future, we may acquire existing vessels as a way of renewing and expanding our fleet. Unlike newbuilds, existing vessels typically do not carry warranties with respect to their condition. While we would inspect any existing vessel prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of its condition as we would possess if the vessel had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be more substantial than for vessels that we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our profits and reduce our liquidity. We may suffer losses as a result of foreign currency fluctuations. A significant portion of the contract revenues of our foreign operations will be paid in U.S. Dollars; however, some payments are made in foreign currencies. As a result, we are exposed to currency fluctuations and exchange rate risks as a result of our foreign operations. To minimize the financial impact of these risks when we are paid in foreign currency, we attempt to match the currency of operating costs with the currency of contract revenue. If we are unable to substantially match the timing and amounts of these payments, any increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the value of applicable foreign currencies could adversely affect our operating results when translated into U.S. Dollars. We are exposed to the credit risks of our clients, and nonpayment by our clients could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our clients. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our clients and certain other third parties could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If any of our clients or other parties default on their obligations to 26 Table of Contents us, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Furthermore, some of our clients and other parties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Terrorist attacks, piracy, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of our business. Terrorist attacks, piracy and other current or future international conflicts may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, ability to raise capital and future growth. Continuing hostilities in the Middle East may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States, or elsewhere, which may contribute to further economic instability and disruption of oil production and distribution, which could result in reduced demand for our services. In addition, oil facilities, shipyards, vessels, pipelines and oil and natural gas fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks and our vessels could be targets of pirates or hijackers. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport oil and natural gas to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war, piracy or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the production of oil could entitle our clients to terminate our drilling contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Common Shares The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Luxembourg law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under other jurisdictions, including the United States, and shareholder rights under Luxembourg law may not be as clearly established as shareholder rights under the laws of other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association, as amended from time to time (our “Articles”), and by the laws governing companies incorporated in Luxembourg. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors (our “Board of Directors”) under Luxembourg law may not be as clearly established as shareholder rights under the laws of other jurisdictions. We anticipate that all of our shareholder meetings will take place in Luxembourg. In addition, the rights of shareholders as they relate to, for example, the exercise of shareholder rights are governed by Luxembourg law and our Articles and differ from the rights of shareholders under other jurisdictions, including the United States. The holders of our common shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the Board of Directors than if we were incorporated in the United States. Because we are incorporated under the laws of Luxembourg, shareholders may face difficulty protecting their interests, and their ability to protect their rights through other international courts, including courts in the United States, may be limited. We are incorporated under the laws of Luxembourg, and the majority of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within certain jurisdictions, including the United States, in a way that will permit a court in such country to have jurisdiction over us, or to enforce judgments against us obtained in the U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal and state securities laws. Please read Item 10, “Enforceability of Civil Liabilities.” We are controlled by a single shareholder, which could result in potential conflicts of interest with our public shareholders. An entity controlled by the Quantum Pacific Group was the beneficial owner of approximately 69.1% of our outstanding common shares as of February 19, 2014 and is in a position to control actions that require the 27 Table of Contents consent of our shareholders, including the election of directors, amendment of our Articles and any merger or sale of substantially all of our assets. In addition, three of our eight Board of Directors members are also employees of affiliates of the Quantum Pacific Group, including Mr. Ron Moskovitz, the Chairman of our Board of Directors. There are no restrictions on the ability of the Quantum Pacific Group to compete with us. In addition, potential conflicts of interest exist or could arise in the future for our directors who are also officers of Quantum Pacific (UK) LLP with respect to a number of areas relating to the past and ongoing relationships of the Quantum Pacific Group and us. Although the affected directors may abstain from voting on matters in which our interests and those of the Quantum Pacific Group are in conflict, the presence of potential or actual conflicts could affect the process or outcome of the deliberations of our Board of Directors and may have an adverse effect on our public shareholders. Our controlling shareholder, Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited, has pledged a significant portion of its shares in our company to secure a loan facility. A default under this loan facility could result in another person acquiring a significant voting interest in the Company and could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Our controlling shareholder, Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited, has pledged a significant portion of its shares in the Company to secure a loan facility. This loan facility requires Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited to pledge cash collateral if the market value of the pledged shares falls below a certain threshold. As of February 19, 2014, Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited has agreed to pledge approximately 39.5% of our outstanding common shares to secure the loan facility. Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited may from time to time in the future obtain additional loans that are secured by a pledge of additional equity interests in the Company. A number of factors could cause our share price to decline, including those risks described in this section, “Risk Factors,” and a decline in the market value of our common shares could trigger margin calls for these loan facilities. Failure or delay by Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited to promptly meet any margin call or other events of default under these financing arrangements could result in the sale or other disposition of some or all of the pledged shares, which could result in one or more persons other than Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited acquiring the pledged shares and thereby acquiring a significant voting interest in the Company. Furthermore, due to Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited’s significant interest in the Company, the disposition of a portion or all of its pledged shares by the lender under the loan facility or a subsequent holder of the pledged shares may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our shares. See Item 3, “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Common Shares—Sales of our common shares in the public market could lower our share price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute our investor’s ownership interest in us.” Our inability to pay dividends or make distributions as and when and in the amount forecasted could have a material negative impact on our share price. The payment of dividends or distributions to shareholders is at the discretion of our Board of Directors, and subject to shareholder approval as well as other requirements of Luxembourg law. Any dividend payment or distribution is dependent upon our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, general market conditions and numerous other factors. Under the terms of our 2015 Senior Unsecured Bonds, we are restricted from paying dividends or making distributions exceeding 50% of our consolidated net income for the preceding fiscal year. Under the terms of the 2017 Senior Secured Notes, the 2020 Senior Secured Notes and the Senior Secured Term Loan B, subject to certain exceptions, we are limited in our ability to pay dividends or make distributions, purchase or redeem our capital stock or make other restricted payments exceeding 50% of our consolidated net income since October 1, 2012. The terms of the Revolving Credit Facility permit us to pay dividends or make distributions so long as we are not in default thereunder and we are in pro forma compliance with our maximum leverage and minimum liquidity tests after giving effect to such dividend payment. The terms of the SSCF allow 28 Table of Contents for the payment of dividends or distributions to our shareholders under certain conditions more fully set forth therein, whereby we may distribute up to 50% of our net income per year for the year 2013 and thereafter. See Item 5, “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Description of Indebtedness” and Note 4 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report for a more detailed description of the terms of our debt financings. If we are unable to pay dividends or make distributions to our common shareholders as and when and in the amount forecasted, the share price of our common shares may be materially adversely affected. Sales of our common shares in the public market could lower our share price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute our investor’s ownership interest in us. We may sell additional common shares in subsequent public offerings. We may also issue additional common shares or convertible securities. As of February 19, 2014, we had 217.1 million issued and outstanding common shares. As of February 19, 2014, Quantum Pacific Group owned 150.0 million shares, or approximately 69.1% of our total outstanding common shares. On November 16, 2011, we entered into a registration rights agreement with Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited which requires us to effect the registration of its common shares in certain circumstances. In April 2011, we issued 60.0 million common shares in a private offering to international and U.S. investors (the “2011 Private Placement”). Subsequent to the 2011 Private Placement, our common shares were traded on the Norwegian OTC List. In November 2011, we completed an initial public offering of 6.0 million common shares. In December 2011, the underwriters purchased an additional 0.9 million common shares pursuant to the full exercise of an over-allotment option. The shares sold in our initial public offering and pursuant to the underwriters’ over-allotment option are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”). As of February 19, 2014, approximately 57.5 million common shares had migrated from the Norwegian OTC List to the NYSE and are now freely trading in the U.S. public market. In March 2012, we filed a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on Form S-8 providing for the registration of 7.2 million common shares issued or reserved for issuance under our stock incentive plan. Subject to the satisfaction of vesting conditions, common shares registered under this registration statement on Form S-8 are available for resale immediately in the public market without restriction. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common shares or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common shares will have on the market price of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares (including any common shares registered pursuant to the registration rights agreement with Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited, any shares transferred by shareholders on the Norwegian OTC to the NYSE, any common shares registered on Form S-8, any shares issued in connection with an acquisition or any other sales of common shares in the public market), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common shares. We are a “foreign private issuer” and “controlled company” under the NYSE rules, and as such, we are entitled to exemption from certain NYSE corporate governance standards, and investors may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. We are a “foreign private issuer” under the securities laws of the United States and the rules of the NYSE. Under the NYSE rules, a “foreign private issuer” is subject to less stringent corporate governance requirements than a domestic issuer. Subject to certain exceptions, the rules of the NYSE permit a “foreign private issuer” to 29 Table of Contents follow its home country practice in lieu of the listing requirements of the NYSE. In addition, Quantum Pacific Group controls a majority of our outstanding common shares. As a result, we are considered a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another company or group is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the nominating committee be composed entirely of independent directors and have a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (3) the requirement that the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors and have a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (4) the requirement of an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees. As permitted by these exemptions, as well as by our bylaws and the laws of Luxembourg, we currently have a board of directors with a majority of non-independent directors, an audit committee comprised solely of four independent directors and a compensation committee with one or more non-independent directors serving as committee members. As a result, non-independent directors, may, among other things, fix the compensation of our management, make common share and option awards and resolve governance issues regarding our company. Accordingly, in the future, investors may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. As a “foreign private issuer,” we are exempt from a number of rules under the U.S. securities laws and are permitted to file less information with the SEC than U.S. public companies. This may limit the information available to holders of our common shares. As a “foreign private issuer,” we are not subject to all of the disclosure requirements applicable to companies organized within the United States. For example, we are exempt from certain rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), that regulate disclosure obligations and procedural requirements related to the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations applicable to a security registered under the Exchange Act. In addition, our officers and directors are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and related rules with respect to their purchases and sales of our securities. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. public companies. Accordingly, there may be less information concerning our company publicly available than there is for U.S. public companies. Tax Risks Changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns could adversely affect our financial results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, treaties and regulations, both in the United States and internationally. Tax laws, treaties and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we operate or are resident. Our income tax expense is based upon the interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations, or in the interpretation thereof, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. If any country successfully challenges our income tax filings based on our structure, or if we otherwise lose a material tax dispute, our effective tax rate on worldwide earnings could increase substantially and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to Luxembourg withholding tax. If we are not successful in our efforts to make distributions, if any, through a withholding tax free reduction of share capital or share premium (the absence of withholding on such distributions is subject to certain 30 Table of Contents requirements), then any dividends paid by us will generally be subject to a Luxembourg withholding tax at a rate of 15% (17.65% if the dividend tax is not withheld from the shareholder) (subject to the reductions/exceptions discussed under Item 10 “Taxation—Material Luxembourg Tax Considerations for Holders of Common Shares—Exemption from Luxembourg Withholding Tax”). The withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the Luxembourg tax authorities. Under current Luxembourg tax law, a reduction of share capital or share premium is not subject to Luxembourg withholding tax provided that certain conditions are met, including, for example, the condition that we do not have distributable reserves or profits. However, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve such a reduction in share capital or share premium, that we will be able to meet the other legal requirements for a reduction in share capital or share premium, or that Luxembourg tax withholding rules will not be changed in the future. In addition, over the long term, the amount of share capital and share premium available for us to use for capital reductions will be limited. If we are unable to make a distribution through a withholding tax free reduction in share capital or share premium, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to Luxembourg withholding taxes. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets for any taxable year produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than certain rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business, but does not include income derived from the performance of services. U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC, and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their interests in the PFIC. We believe that we are not a PFIC for the current taxable year and will not be a PFIC during any future taxable year. Based on our operations described herein, all or a substantial portion of our income from offshore contract drilling services should be treated as services income and not as passive income, and thus all or a substantial portion of the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income should not constitute passive assets, for purposes of determining whether we are a PFIC. However, this involves a facts and circumstances analysis and it is possible that the IRS would not agree with this conclusion. See Item 10, “Taxation—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations for Holders of Common Shares— U.S. Holders—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” 