ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks associated with an investment in our publicly traded securities and all of the other information in our 2013 Annual Report. Our business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Risks Relating to Our Business We depend significantly on our Chief Executive Officer. We are dependent on the principal members of our management staff, and in particular Xinrong Zhuo, our Chief Executive Officer. While we have entered into a three-year employment agreement with Mr. Zhuo, there are circumstances under the agreement in which Mr. Zhuo may elect to terminate his employment. Even if Mr. Zhuo were to terminate employment in breach of his agreement, we would have little or no practical recourse against Mr. Zhuo under PRC law. Mr. Zhuo may not continue to be employed by us for as long as we require his services. In addition, we rely on members of our senior management team with industry experience for important aspects of our operations, and we believe that losing the services of these executive officers could be detrimental to our operations, and our operations because they would be difficult to replace. We do not have key-man life insurance for any of our executive officers or other employees. We will need additional financing in order to execute our business plan, which may not be available to us. We will need to obtain additional capital in order to execute its business plan to expand our operations by enlarging the fishing vessel fleet, expanding fishing ground worldwide and extend its business to fishmeal processing. Such additional capital may be raised by issuing securities through various financing transactions or arrangements, including joint ventures of projects, debt financing, equity financing or other means. Additional financing may not be available when needed on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The inability to obtain additional capital may reduce our ability to continue to conduct our business operations as currently contemplated. Regulation of the fishing industry may have an adverse impact on our business. For years, the international community has been aware of and concerned with the worldwide problem of depletion of natural fish stocks. In the past, these concerns have resulted in the imposition of quotas that subject individual countries to strict limitations on the amount of fish they are allowed to catch. Environmental groups have been lobbying to have additional limitations on fishing imposed and have even made suggestions that would limit the activities of fish farms. If international organizations or national governments were to impose additional limitations on fishing, this could have a negative impact on our results of operations. The growth of our business depends on its ability to secure fishing licenses directly or through third parties. Fishing is a highly regulated industry. Our operations require licenses, permits and in some cases renewals of licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. For example, commercial fishing operations are subject to government license requirements that permit them to make their catch. Our ability to obtain, sustain or renew such licenses and permits on acceptable terms is subject to changes in regulations and policies and to the discretion of the applicable governments, among other factors. Our inability to obtain, or a loss or denial of extensions, to any of these licenses or permits could hamper our ability to produce revenues from fishing operations. We are dependent on affiliates and third parties for its operations. A large portion of our transportation operations are conducted by three of our related parties, Haifeng Dafu Enterprise Company Limited, Hai Yi Shipping Limited and Hong Fa Shipping Limited. If for any reason these three companies became unable or unwilling to continue to provide services to us, this would likely lead to a temporary interruption in transportation at least until we found another entity that could provide these services. Failure to find a suitable replacement, even on a temporary basis, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. A large portion of our operations are conducted from a base owned by our related party PT. Avona Mina Lestari, or Avona. We contract with Avona for the right to use the base. Avona also handles certain agency services, including customs applications and fees for Merchant Supreme. If for any reason Avona became unable or unwilling to continue to provide its services to us, this would likely lead to a temporary interruption in our operations, at least until we found another entity that could provide these services. Failure to find a suitable replacement for Avona, even on a temporary basis, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 12 We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in raw material prices and selling prices of products. The products and raw materials we use may experience price volatility caused by events such as market fluctuations, weather conditions or changes in governmental programs. Raw materials consist primarily of bait, including sardines, anchovies, mackerel and other small fish. The market price of these raw materials may also experience significant upward adjustment, if, for instance, there is a material under-supply or over-demand in the market. These prices changes may ultimately result in increases in the selling prices of products, and may, in turn, adversely affect our sales volume, revenue and operating profit. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth, which may harm our profitability. Our strategy is to expand our business. If we fail to effectively manage this growth, our financial results could be adversely affected. Growth may place a strain on management systems and resources, including business development capabilities, systems and processes and access to financing sources. As we grow, we must continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. In connection with our fishing business, we may not be able to: · meet capital needs; · expand systems effectively or efficiently, or in a timely manner; · allocate human resources optimally; · identify and hire qualified employees or retain valued employees; or · incorporate effectively the components of any business that may be acquired in our effort to achieve growth. If we are unable to manage growth, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected by inefficiency, which could diminish our profitability. Our business requires talented personnel who we may not be able to attract and retain. We depend in large measure on the abilities, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity and good faith of our management and other personnel in conducting the business of the company. We have a small management team, and the loss of a key individual or inability to attract suitably qualified staff could materially adversely impact the fishing business. The key personnel of our fishing business are Mr. Deming Chen, vice general manager, Mr. Dong Wang, general coordinator of the shipping department, Mr. Qing Lin, assistant of the chairman of the board of directors, Mr. Longhao Zhuo, chief supervisor of the sales department, who is mainly responsible for wholesale and fresh sea food retail business. Mr. Lin assists the chairman in dealing with daily operating matters, such as developing business plans and managing and supervising related projects. Our success depends on the ability of our management and employees to interpret and respond to economic, market and environmental conditions in its operating areas correctly. Further, our key personnel may not continue their association or employment, which and replacement personnel with comparable skills may not be available, which may adversely affect our business. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover we may incur or to fully replace a significant loss of assets. Our involvement in the fishing industry may result in liability for pollution, property damage, personal injury or other hazards. Although we believe we have obtained insurance in accordance with PRC industry standards to address such risks, such insurance has limitations on liability and/or deductible amounts that may not be sufficient to cover the full extent of such liabilities or losses. In addition, such risks may not, in all circumstances, be insurable or, in certain circumstances, we may choose not to obtain insurance to protect against specific risks due to the high premiums associated with such insurance or for other reasons. The payment of such uninsured liabilities would reduce the funds available to us. If we suffer a significant event or occurrence that is not fully insured, or if the insurer of such event is not solvent, we could be required to divert funds from capital investment or other uses towards covering any liability or loss for such events. 13 Earthquakes, tsunamis, adverse weather or oceanic conditions or other calamities may disrupt our operations and could adversely affect sales. Our fishing expeditions are based out of the Arafura Sea, Indonesia, and Merchant Supreme has cold storages located in MaWei in the Fujian province on the southeast coast of China. In 2004, an undersea earthquake occurred off the west coast of Sumatra Indonesia. This earthquake triggered a series of devastating tsunamis along the costs of most landmasses boarding the Indian Ocean. More than 225,000 people in 11 countries were killed, and coastal communities were inundated with waves up to 100 feet. Due to the location of our business, it may be at risk of experiencing another tsunami, earthquake or other adverse weather or oceanic conditions. This may result in the breakdown of facilities, such as its cold storage facilities, which could lead to deterioration of products with the potential for spoilage. This could also adversely affect the ability to fulfill sales orders and, accordingly, adversely affect profitability. Adverse weather conditions affecting the fishing grounds where our fishing vessels operate, such as storms, cyclones and typhoons, or cataclysmic events such as tsunamis, may also decrease the volume of fish catches or hamper fishing operations. Our operations may also be adversely affected by major climatic disruptions such as El Nino which in the past has caused significant decreases in seafood catches worldwide. We may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such changes. The growing political and scientific sentiment is that increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are influencing global weather patterns. Fresh products, including seafood products, are vulnerable to adverse weather conditions, including windstorms, floods, drought and temperature extremes, which are quite common but difficult to predict and may be influenced by global climate change. Similarly, changing weather patterns, along with the increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions, could impact the availability of the fish species we catch. Concern over climate change, including global warming, has led to legislative and regulatory initiatives directed at limiting greenhouse gas, or GHG, emissions. For example, proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on GHG emissions may be considered by policy makers in the territories in which we operate. Laws enacted that directly or indirectly affect fishing, distribution, packaging, cost of raw materials, fuel, and water could all adversely impact our business and financial results. A dramatic reduction in fish resources may adversely affect our business. We are in the business of catching and selling marine catch. Due to over-fishing, the stocks of certain species of fish may be dwindling and to counteract such over-fishing, governments may take action that may be detrimental to our ability to conduct operations. If the solution proffered or imposed by the governments controlling the fishing grounds were to limit the types, quantities and species of fish that we are able to catch, our operations and prospects may be adversely affected. Changes in the policies of the PRC government impacting the fishing industry may adversely affect our business. The fishing industry in the PRC is subject to policies implemented by the PRC government. The PRC government may impose restrictions on aspects of our business such as regulations for the management and ownership of vessels. If the raw materials used by us or our products become subject to any form of government control, then depending on the nature and extent of the control and our ability to make corresponding adjustments, we may face a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Separately, our business and operating results also could be adversely affected by changes in policies of the Chinese government such as: changes in laws, regulations or the interpretation thereof; confiscatory taxation; restrictions on currency conversion, imports on sources of supplies; or the expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies for approximately two decades to liberalize the economy and introduce free market aspects, the government may not continue to pursue such policies and such policies may be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting China’s political, economic and social life. We have entered into certain pledge agreements pledging 22 fishing vessels as collateral to secure a loan to Hong Long, a fishing company controlled by spouse of Mr. Xinrong Zhuo. The pledge has no beneficial purpose for us and we could lose our fishing vessels if Hong Long were to default on the loans, which could be detrimental for our operations. In October 2012, we entered into two pledge contracts with China Minsheng Banking Corp., Ltd. pursuant to which we pledged 10 fishing vessels with carrying amounts of approximately $9,500,000, as collateral to secure Hong Long’s $10,300,000 in long-term loans from the financial institution, which are due April 18, 2015. In September 2013, we entered into two additional pledge contracts with China Minsheng Banking Corp., Ltd. pursuant to which we pledged another 12 fishing vessels with carrying amounts of approximately $10,900,000, as collateral to secure Hong Long’s $9,911,300 in short-term loans from the financial institution, which are due June 25, 2014. Consequently, if Hong Long was to default on the loans and we would lose the vessels, it could be detrimental for our operations. 14 Risks Relating to Doing Business in the PRC Certain political and economic considerations relating to PRC could adversely affect us. The PRC is passing from a planned economy to a market economy. The Chinese government has confirmed that economic development will follow a model of market economy under socialism. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the PRC economy is still operating under five-year plans and annual state plans adopted by the government that set down national economic development goals. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms are unprecedented or experimental for the PRC government, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or our business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in the PRC’s economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, which we may not be able to foresee, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the official interpretation thereof), measures which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, and imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. The recent nature and uncertain application of many PRC laws applicable to us create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, such as the legal system used in the United States, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, the PRC began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in the PRC and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could have a negative impact on our, business and prospects. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. The political and economic policies of the PRC government could affect our businesses and results of operations. The economy of the PRC differs from the economies of most developed countries in a number of respects, including the degree of government involvement, control of capital investment, and the overall level of development. Before its adoption of reform and open up policies in 1978, China was primarily a planned economy. In recent years the PRC government has been reforming the PRC economic system and the government structure. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social progress. Economic reform measures, however, may be adjusted, modified or applied inconsistently from industry to industry or across different regions of the country. As a result, we may not continue to benefit from all, or any, of these measures. In addition, it cannot be predicted whether changes in the PRC’s political, economic and social conditions, laws, regulations and policies will have any adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The PRC legal system is evolving and has inherent uncertainties regarding interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws and regulations that could limit the legal protections available to you. Pingtan Fishing, our PRC operating company, is organized under the laws of the PRC. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited weight as precedents. Since 1979, the PRC government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited number and non-binding nature of published cases, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. 15 Our operations and assets in the PRC are subject to significant political and economic uncertainties. Changes in PRC laws and regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The PRC government has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The PRC government may continue to pursue these policies, and it may significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. The consummation of the acquisition by the Pingtan Fishing share purchase agreement and the reorganization plan carried out by Pingtan Fishing may require prior approval from MOFCOM or the CSRC, which may subject us to sanctions or adversely affect our business, results of operations, reputation and prospects. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, jointly issued the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009 by the MOFCOM, or the M&A Regulations. The M&A Regulations, among other things, require that the approval from MOFCOM be obtained for acquisitions of affiliated domestic entities by foreign entities established or controlled by domestic natural persons or enterprises, and also require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for purposes of overseas listing of equity interests in PRC companies and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals, obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures regarding its approval of overseas listings by SPVs. The CSRC approval procedures require the filing of a number of documents with the CSRC. The application of the M&A Regulations remains unclear as of the date of this 10-K submission, with no consensus among leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. Pingtan Fishing’s PRC legal counsel has advised, based on its understanding of current PRC laws, regulations and rules, that the M&A Regulations are not applicable to the consummation of the acquisition by the Pingtan Fishing share purchase agreement and the reorganization plan carried out by Pingtan Fishing because Merchant Supreme’s founder and controlling shareholder, Mr. Xinrong Zhuo, is not a mainland PRC natural person. However, the relevant PRC government authorities, including MOFCOM and the CSRC, may reach a different conclusion. If it is decided that the prior approval from MOFCOM or the CSRC is required, we may face sanctions by MOFCOM, the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. Consequently, it is possible that MOFCOM, the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit such operations, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects. The Circular of Security Review and the Regulations of Security Review provide that any foreign investor should file an application with MOFCOM for the merger and acquisition of domestic enterprises in sensitive sectors or industries. Further, MOFCOM has, for its inner review process, stipulated a range of the business operation items which are required to be reviewed. With reference to such business items, Pingtan Fishing believes that the Regulations of Security Review do not apply to the business operations of Pingtan Fishing. However, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities may have a different view or interpretation in this regard when implementing the Regulations of Security Review. If it is decided that the acquisition by the Pingtan Fishing share purchase agreement may materially affect the state security of the PRC, we may be ordered to restore the shareholding structure to the status before the consummation of the said acquisition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects. If SAFE determines that its foreign exchange regulations concerning “round-trip” investment apply to our shareholding structure, a failure by our shareholders or beneficial owners to comply with these regulations may restrict our ability to distribute profits, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities or subject us to liability under PRC laws, which may materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. SAFE Circular No. 75 provides that those domestic individuals who hold a PRC identity card, passport or other legal identity supporting document, or who have no such legal identity in mainland PRC but are habitually residing in PRC for the sake of economic interest, whether they hold a PRC identity supporting document or not, should register with the local SAFE branch prior to their establishment or control of an offshore SPV. In addition, any PRC citizen, resident, or entity which is a direct or indirect shareholder of an SPV is required to update the previously filed registration with the local branch of SAFE, with respect to that SPV, to reflect any material change. Moreover, a PRC subsidiary of an SPV is required to urge its shareholders who are PRC citizens, residents, or entities to update their registration with the local branch of SAFE. If a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect equity interest in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Failure to comply with the SAFE Circular No. 75 could result in liability under PRC law for violation of the relevant rules relating to transfers of foreign exchange. Our founder and controlling shareholder, Mr. Xinrong Zhuo, obtained his Hong Kong identity card in 2005 and surrendered his PRC identity card subsequently thereto. SAFE Circular No. 75 provides that individuals without PRC identities that habitually reside in mainland China for the sake of economic interest should be considered PRC residents, who are required to register their direct or indirect investments in offshore SPVs with the local branch of SAFE. SAFE Circular No. 75 further provides that individuals who have their permanent domicile in mainland China and have been permanently residing in mainland China after temporary departure should be considered PRC residents, no matter whether they have a PRC identity or not. Although he leaves the PRC from time to time and maintains his Hong Kong identity card, Mr. Xinrong Zhuo has been residing in mainland China for most of the time since the SAFE Circular No. 75 became effective. Accordingly, it is possible that PRC authorities may consider Mr. Zhuo to be PRC resident. As of the date of this10-K submission, Mr. Zhuo has not made registrations or filings according to SAFE Circular No. 75. Due to uncertainty over how SAFE Circular No. 75 will be interpreted and implemented, we cannot predict how SAFE Circular No. 75 will affect our business operations or future strategies following the business combination. If SAFE Circular No. 75 is determined to apply to us or any of our PRC resident shareholders, none of whom to our knowledge has made registrations or filings according to SAFE Circular No. 75, a failure by any such shareholders or beneficial owners to comply with SAFE Circular No. 75 may subject the relevant shareholders or beneficial owners to penalties under PRC foreign exchange administrative regulations, and may subject us to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure and capital inflow from the offshore entity, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, we may not be informed of the identities of our beneficial owners and our Chinese resident beneficial owners, if any, may not comply with SAFE Circular No. 75. The failure or inability of our beneficial owners who are PRC citizens, residents or entities to make or amend any required registrations may subject these PRC residents or our PRC subsidiary to fines and legal sanctions, and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiary and limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to make distributions or pay dividends to us, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to its shareholders may be materially and adversely affected. In December 2009, the PRC State Administration for Taxation issued a notice, known as “Circular 698,” addressing PRC income tax issues in connection with transfers of equity by a non-PRC resident enterprise that directly or indirectly holds an interest in a PRC resident enterprise. Circular 698 requires certain tax filings with, and the submission of comprehensive information to, the applicable tax authorities regarding transfers of equity by a non-PRC resident enterprise that directly or indirectly holds an interest in a PRC resident enterprise. The filings and submissions are designed to assist the taxing authorities in evaluating whether the transfer has a reasonable business purpose. If the transfer does not have a reasonable business purpose, Circular 698 provides that the seller is subject to PRC income tax on the gains received from the transfer of the PRC resident enterprise. Although the tax obligations generally apply to the seller, the PRC resident enterprise that is transferred is also subject to certain requirements to assist the PRC tax authorities in collecting the taxes, potentially including withholding agent obligations. Circular 698 is relatively new with limited implementation guidance, and it is uncertain how it will be interpreted, implemented or enforced. For example, there is no clear guidance regarding what constitutes a “reasonable business purpose” or the assistance obligation applicable to the transferred PRC resident enterprise. We cannot predict how Circular 698 will apply to current or future acquisition strategies and business operations. For example, if our affiliated PRC entities are deemed to have been sold through an offshore holding company, we may face comprehensive filing obligations that could result in significant taxes, potential sanctions or other enforcement action, or other adverse considerations, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to consummate such a transaction or expand our business and market share. 16 We may be classified as a PRC “resident enterprise” under the PRC enterprise income tax law, which could result in unfavorable tax consequences for us and our shareholders and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC, or the EIT Law, dividends, interests, rent, royalties and gains on transfers of property payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investor who is a non-resident enterprise will be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless such non-resident enterprise’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax. Under the arrangement for avoidance of double taxation between mainland China and Hong Kong, the effective withholding tax applicable to a Hong Kong non-resident company is 5% if it directly owns no less than a 25% stake in the Chinese foreign-invested enterprise. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside China with its “de facto management body” within China is considered a “resident enterprise” in China and is subject to the Chinese enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. We may be deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law and be subject to the PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. If the Chinese tax authorities determine that we should be classified as a resident enterprise, foreign securities holders will be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us and subject to income tax upon gains on the sale of securities under the EIT Law. Due to various restrictions under PRC laws on the distribution of dividends by PRC operating companies, we may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders. The Wholly-Foreign Owned Enterprise Law (1986), as amended, The Wholly-Foreign Owned Enterprise Law Implementing Rules (1990), as amended, and the Company Law of the PRC (2006) contain the principal regulations governing dividend distributions by Wholly-Foreign Owned Enterprises, or WFOEs. Under these regulations, WFOEs may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Additionally, they are required to set aside each year 10% of its net profits, if any, based on PRC accounting standards, to fund a statutory surplus reserve until the accumulated amount of such reserve reaches 50% of their respective registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends except in the event of liquidation and cannot be used for working capital purposes. The PRC government also imposes controls on the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of the PRC. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency for the payment of dividends from the profits of our WFOE. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in the PRC incur debt on their own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments. If we or our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the economic value from the operations of our PRC subsidiary through contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. Because our principal assets are located outside of the United States and our directors and officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights based on the United States federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors in the United States or to enforce foreign judgments or bring original actions in the PRC against us or our management. All of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. In addition, our operating subsidiaries are located in the PRC and all of their assets are located outside of the United States. The PRC does not have a treaty with United States providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts. Therefore, it may be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights based on the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws against us in the courts of either the United States or the PRC and, even if civil judgments are obtained in courts of the United States, to enforce such judgments in PRC courts. In addition, since we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands and our corporate affairs are governed by the laws of the Cayman Islands, it may not be possible for investors to originate actions against us or our directors or officers based upon PRC laws, and it may be difficult, if possible at all, to bring actions based upon Cayman Islands laws in the PRC in the event that you believe that your rights as a shareholder have been infringed. Our employment practices may be adversely impacted under the labor contract law of the PRC. The PRC National People’s Congress promulgated the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. Compared to previous labor laws, the Labor Contract Law provides stronger protection for employees and imposes more obligations on employers. According to the Labor Contract Law, employers have the obligation to enter into written labor contracts with employees to specify the key terms of the employment relationship. The law also stipulates, among other things, (i) that all written labor contracts shall contain certain requisite terms; (ii) that the length of trial employment periods must be in proportion to the terms of the relevant labor contracts, which in any event may not be longer than six months; (iii) that in certain circumstances, a labor contract is deemed to be without a fixed term and thus an employee can only be terminated with cause; and (iv) that there are certain restrictions on the circumstances under which employers may terminate labor contracts as well as the economic compensations to employees upon termination of the employee’s employment. 17 In addition, if we decide to significantly change or downsize our workforce, the Labor Contract Law could restrict our ability to terminate employee contracts and adversely affect our ability to make such changes to our work force in a manner that is most favorable to our business or in a timely and cost effective manner, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are subject to severe penalties or incur significant legal fees in connection with labor law disputes or investigations, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Investors will have limited access to corporate records filed with the relevant PRC government authorities by the PRC operating entities. All our PRC subsidiaries are companies registered in Fujian Province. The PRC State Administration for Industry and Commerce and its local counterparts, or collectively SAIC, is the PRC government authority governing the market supervision and administrative enforcement of various business licensing laws. According to the relevant SAIC regulations, certain corporate records of a company should be filed with SAIC, for example, the annual financial report, shareholder changes, amendments of articles of association, registered capital changes, capital verification reports and equity interest pledge registration. In Fujian Province, an individual can gain access to information filed with SAIC only with the authorization of the company for which such information is filed. Alternatively, access to information can be granted by an order of a PRC people’s court, provided that the individual requesting the information is a party to litigation involving the company in question. Due to such restrictions, investors will have limited access to corporate records filed with the SAIC by our PRC affiliates. Currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency exchange may adversely affect our business, including limiting our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies and, if Renminbi were to decline in value, reducing our revenue in U.S. dollar terms. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and our operations in the PRC use their local currency as their functional currencies. Substantially all of our revenue and expenses are in Renminbi. Accordingly, we are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any of these currencies. For example, the value of the Renminbi depends to a large extent on PRC government policies and the PRC’s domestic and international economic and political developments, as well as supply and demand in the local market. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to the U.S. dollar had generally been stable and the Renminbi had appreciated slightly against the U.S. dollar. However, in July 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, Renminbi may fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. As a result of this policy change, Renminbi appreciated more than 20% against the U.S. dollar in the following three years. Since July 2008, however, the Renminbi has traded within a narrow range against the U.S. dollar. As a consequence, the Renminbi has fluctuated significantly since July 2008 against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. On June 19, 2010, the People’s Bank of China, or the PBOC, announced that the PRC government would further reform the Renminbi exchange rate regime and increase the flexibility of the exchange rate. It is difficult to predict how this new policy may impact the Renminbi exchange and the Renminbi may not be stable against the U.S. dollar or any other foreign currency. The statements of our operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in each applicable period. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions results in reduced revenue, operating expenses and net income for our operations. Similarly, to the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions results in increased revenue, operating expenses and net income for our operations. We are exposed, to foreign exchange rate fluctuations in converting the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars in consolidation. If there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the conversion of the foreign subsidiaries’ financial statements into U.S. dollars will lead to a translation gain or loss which is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. In addition, if we have, assets or liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the relevant entity’s functional currency, changes in the functional currency value of these assets and liabilities would create fluctuations that lead to a transaction gain or loss. Although our major operations are conducted overseas, our sales are conducted in the PRC and in RMB, which is our functional currency. The average exchange rate used in translating the results of operations and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 from RMB to U.S. dollars was 6.1412 and 6.3116, respectively, which represented a 2.7% increase from 2012 to 2013 in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. The average exchange rate used in translating the results of operations and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was 6.3116 and 6.4640, respectively, which represented a 2.4% increase from 2011 to 2012 in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge exchange rate risks, although we may do so in the future. The availability and effectiveness of any hedging transaction may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge its exchange rate risks. 18 Although PRC governmental policies were introduced in 1996 to allow the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currency for current account items, conversion of Renminbi into foreign exchange for capital items, such as foreign direct investment, loans or securities, requires the approval of SAFE, which is under the authority of the PBOC. These approvals, however, do not guarantee the availability of foreign currency conversion. We may not be able to obtain all required conversion approvals for our operations and PRC regulatory authorities may impose greater restrictions on the convertibility of Renminbi. Because we expect a significant amount of our revenue to continue to be in the form of Renminbi, our inability to obtain the requisite approvals or any future restrictions on currency exchanges could limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside of the PRC, or to repay foreign currency obligations, including our debt obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Contractual arrangements, including voting proxies, with our affiliated entities for Pingtan Fishing’s fishing business may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct or indirect ownership. Pursuant to our contractual arrangements, if Pingtan Fishing, Merchant Supreme’s PRC operating company, or the shareholders of Pingtan Fishing fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may be forced to (i) incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, including the voting proxies, and (ii) rely on legal remedies available under PRC law, including exercising the call option right over the equity interests in Pingtan Fishing, seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming monetary damages. However, there are various difficulties related to the enforcement of these contractual arrangements. For example, any legal remedies must be sought by Pingtan Guansheng Ocean Fishing Co., Ltd., or Pingtan GuanSheng because Pingtan GuanSheng, Pingtan Fishing’s WFOE, is the direct contract party to the contractual arrangements, and injunctive relief is not likely to be available under PRC law in the circumstances of a breach of these arrangements. Limitations on foreign ownership may prevent us from exercising the call option. In addition, even in the event of a grant of monetary damages by a PRC court, Pingtan GuanSheng may not collect such damages if the opposite party(ies) in a litigation are incapable of payment. Pingtan GuanSheng may exercise the rights underlying the equity pledge agreement to receive payment of the proceeds from disposal of the pledged equity interest in Pingtan Fishing, but in such event the monetary damages will be limited to the amount pledge under the equity pledged agreement. In the event that we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangement, or if suffer significant time delays or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these contractual arrangements our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Due to historical defects in its capital contributions of Pingtan Fishing, we may be subject to administrative liability. The current PRC Companies Law provides that shareholders must make the full amount of capital contribution subscribed to by such shareholder under the articles of association of the company. The form of capital contribution may be currency or non-currency property, such as property, intellectual property rights and land-use rights that can be evaluated in the form of currency and transferred in accordance with the applicable law. Under the PRC Companies Law, the non-currency property to be contributed as capital shall undergo an asset valuation and verification, and shall not be overvalued or undervalued. The property rights of such non-currency property shall be transferred in accordance with legally prescribed procedures. If a company obtains company registration in violation of the PRC Companies Law by making false statement of registered capital, submitting false certificates or by concealing material facts through other fraudulent means, the company shall be ordered to make rectification. In the event false statements regarding registered capital were made, the company shall also be fined no less than five percent but no more than fifteen percent of the amount of registered capital falsely stated. Further, a company submitting false certificates or concealing material facts may be fined no less than RMB50,000 but no more than RMB500,000. Pingtan Fishing was established in February 1998 with registered capital of RMB10,000,000, by three founders, Fujian Pingtan County Fishing Development Co., Fujian Pingtan County Shengfa Pingtan Fishing Co., Ltd. and Fujian Pingtan County Shunda Fishing Co., Ltd., all of whom made in-kind contributions to Pingtan Fishing. However, no information regarding any specific category of in-kind contribution was disclosed in the registration records of Pingtan Fishing in Pingtan County SAIC. Further, no assessment report or materials regarding the title transfer for such in-kind contributions were disclosed in the registration record. In September 2002, Fujian Pingtan County State-owned Asset Operation Co., Ltd., or Pingtan State-owned Co., a PRC state-owned enterprise, injected investment of non-currency property, which was half of its land-use right in an area in Pingtan County, at the price of RMB7,000,000 and obtained 70% equity interest in Pingtan Fishing. However, the transfer procedure for such land-use right has not been conducted and the registered capital of Pingtan Fishing was never changed. The local government authority for company registration has confirmed that since its establishment no information record has been found regarding the violation of the applicable governmental company management laws by Pingtan Fishing. However, due to the lack of certain documents in the registration record of Pingtan Fishing, if the applicable company registration authority determines that Pingtan Fishing has had one or more deficiencies in it historical capital contributions, we may be subject to the fines. 19 Due to the defect in the state-owned equity interest transfer in Pingtan Fishing’s past, it, and we may be subject to a determination of invalidity of such equity interest transfer and may be liable for the applicable administrative liability. According to the Provisional Regulations of Supervision and Administration of State-owned Assets in the Enterprise, promulgated by the State Council on May 27, 2003, and the Provisional Management Measure for the Transfer of the State-owned Equity in an Enterprise, promulgated by State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission and Ministry of Finance on December 31, 2003, or collectively the State-owned Assets Regulations, the State-owned assets supervision and administration authority shall determine the matters of the transfer of its state-owned equity in an enterprise which it has invested. Further, the sale of state-owned equity in a company by a state-owned entity shareholder must be approved by the governmental authority at the same ranking as that of the state-owned entity shareholder, provided that after the transfer the state-owned entity may not hold more than 50% equity interest in such company. On December 10, 2004, Fujian Yihai Investment Co., Ltd and Chen Cheng obtained all the equity interest in Pingtan Fishing by an equity interest transfer from the former shareholders, or the 2004 Equity Transfer, including Pingtan State-owned Co., and the registered capital of Pingtan Fishing increased to RMB25,000,000. A state-owned asset transfer was involved in the equity interest transfer, as Pingtan State-owned Co. is a state-owned company. According to State-owned Assets Regulations, such equity interest transfer should be determined by the Fuzhou municipal state-owned asset supervising authority and approved by the Fuzhou Municipal Government. However, the applicable approval was not obtained at the time of the 2004 Equity Transfer, which was only approved by Pingtan County Government. According to 1999 PRC Contract Law, a contract shall be null and void under any of the following circumstances: (1) a contract is concluded through the use of fraud or coercion by one party to damage the interests of the state; (2) malicious collusion is conducted to damage the interests of the state, a collective or a third party; (3) an illegitimate purpose is concealed, under the guise of legitimate acts; (4) public interests are damaged; or (5) a violation the compulsory provisions of the laws and administrative regulations. Currently, none of the violations described above have been found with regard to the equity transfer contract for the 2004 Equity Transfer. Given that the 2004 Equity Transfer has been confirmed by Pingtan Government, Pingtan Fishing believes that it is unlikely that the transfer will be determined to be invalid. However, the government authority may reach the different conclusion and we may face an order of rectification, which would be time consuming and our business operations may be adversely affected. We may be subject to certain penalties due to Pingtan Fishing lacking various PRC certificates or licenses and our business may be affected by the failure to renew some such certificates or licenses. According to the PRC Fishing Vessels Inspection Regulation promulgated by PRC National Council in June 2003, if a fishing vessel operates without the Inspection Certificate after the applicable inspection process, such vessel may be confiscated by the relevant authority. The owner of a fishing vessel who does not apply for the required operation inspection for such vessel can be ordered to cease operations and apply for inspection within the time limit required by the relevant authority. In the event that a company fails to apply for an annual inspection, as ordered by the relevant authority, the company may be fined between RMB1,000 to RMB10,000 and the Annual Inspection Certificates held by the company may be temporarily suspended. According to to PRC Radio Management Regulations promulgated by the PRC National Council and PRC Centre Military Committee in September 1993, as well as the License of Radio Station Management Regulations promulgated by Ministry of Industry and Information Technology in February 2009, a company who sets up or uses a radio station in a vessel must obtain a Radio Station License. Failing to do so may result in a fine of up to RMB5,000 and the radio station facilities may be confiscated. The PRC is a member of 1973 International Pollution Prevention Convention, amended in 1978. According to the provisions of such convention and relevant PRC laws and regulations, the vessels owned by Pingtan Fishing should have a Sewage Pollution Prevention Certificates. We may be subject to a fine of up to RMB200,000 once its vessels enter into PRC territorial seas due to lacking the certificate and relevant facilities for pollution prevention. According to the PRC Fishery Management Regulation promulgated by PRC Ministry of Agriculture in April 2003, in the event that an enterprise has not obtained a valid inspection certificate or any other applicable certificates, such company may be subject to penalties imposed by applicable governmental authorities. Further, an enterprise carrying out its ocean fishery business without the approval of the Ministry of Agriculture may be subject to penalties imposed by applicable governmental authority pursuant to applicable laws and regulations. The most serious penalty is permanent suspension of its fishing business operation. In addition, under PRC laws and regulations, Pingtan Fishing is required to hold certain certificates or licenses in order to use its vessels to conduct fishing outside PRC territorial seas. Some of the certificates or licenses are subject to renewal on a regular basis. We may not be able to renew such certificates or licenses. Failure to renew such certificates or licenses may cause temporary or even permanent suspension of Pingtan Fishing’s operations, which would have adverse effects on our business and financial condition. In addition, we may face fines pursuant to the above-mentioned laws and regulations. 20 Pingtan Fishing has neither entered into employment contracts with its employees nor bought the required social insurance for its employees and we may be imposed fines by the relevant authority. Compared to previous labor laws, the Labor Contract Law provides stronger protection for employees and imposes more obligations on employers. The Labor Contract Law stipulates, among other things, that (i) that all written labor contracts shall contain certain requisite terms; (ii) that the length of trial employment periods must be in proportion to the terms of the relevant labor contracts, which in any event may not be longer than six months; (iii) that in certain circumstances, a labor contract is deemed to be without a fixed term and thus an employee can only be terminated with cause; and (iv) that there are certain restrictions on the circumstances under which employers may terminate labor contracts as well as the economic compensations to employees upon termination of the employee’s employment. The PRC Social Insurance Law provides that the employers should apply for the social insurance registration to the social insurance authority for their employees within thirty days from the employment date. The employees should have the basic endowment insurance, basic medical insurance, work-related injury insurance, unemployment insurance and applicable maternity insurance for its employees. The premium of work-related injury insurance and maternity insurance should be paid by the employers and the premium of the other three kind of insurance should be paid by the employees and employers jointly. Employers who have not managed the application of social insurance registration in time may be ordered by the social insurance authority to make the rectification and may fined for the twice or triple of the unpaid premium for any delay in such rectification. Employers who have not paid the premium of applicable social insurance for their employees should be ordered to make the payment in time and be charged an overdue fine in the amount of 5/10,000 per day of the unpaid premium from the due date, and, if they have not paid in time as required by such order, may be fined for an amount of twice to triple the unpaid premium. Further, employers have the obligations to withhold the premium of endowment insurance, medical insurance and unemployment insurance and for their employees, and should be charged 5/10,000 per day of the overdue withholding premium by the social insurance authority. Pingtan Fishing has not entered into employment agreements with some of its employees, basically the root-level employees, none of whom has endowment insurance, basic medical insurance, insurance against injury at work, maternity insurance and unemployment insurance. Due to this lack of insurance, we may be subject to overdue payment and fines and in turn our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We are actively endeavoring to enter into the employment contracts with these employees, purchase the social insurance for these employees and taking other remedial action. However, such actions may not be completed on a timely basis, or at all, and may not avoid fines or other penalties. As of December 31, 2013, there had been no fines nor penalties requested by the social insurance authority. Based on our estimate, the social insurance not provided is approximately $246,000, which is immaterial. We may be subject to fines for the violation of Fishing Management Regulations. PRC laws set forth rigorous standards to the amount and qualification of the seamen serving on vessels. The applicable laws include, among other things, the 1983 PRC Navigation Safety Act, Pingtan Fishing Management Regulations which was promulgated by Ministry of Agriculture on April 14, 2003, the PRC Seamen Regulations which was promulgated by State Council on March 28, 2007, Fishing Port Navigation Safety Management Regulations which was promulgated by State Council on May 5, 1989, and PRC Administrative Penalty Regulations for the Supervising of the Water Safety which was promulgated by Ministry of Communications on November 26, 1997. All these laws and regulations, collectively referred to as the Fishing Management Regulations, provide that the vessels should be equipped with qualified seamen, in a number required by the standard criteria to ensure the safety of such vessels and the seamen in Pingtan Fishing’s vessels should be trained by the professional training institution permitted by Ministry of Agriculture and hold a Professional Sailor Certificate and the Professional Training Qualification. Further, the owners of the Pingtan Fishing’s enterprises must apply for a Seafarer’s Passport for the seamen on their vessels and the seamen in the voyage or assisting with marine engine work must have a Certificate of Competence. The owner of the vessel may be ordered to rectify the failure to equip vessels with qualified seamen and are subject to a fine between RMB5000 to RMB10,000 for such violation or for the seamen on such vessels lacking valid Certificates of Competence. Pingtan Fishing has not historically had procedures in place to ensure its vessels are equipped with sufficient qualified crews, who have the Seafarer’s Passport and Certificate of Job Qualification or other certificates required by applicable Fishing Management Regulations, to ensure the safety of such vessels. Accordingly, we may be subject to fines for such violations. 21 Pingtan Fishing has not made past housing fund payments for and on behalf of its employees and we may be required to make such payments and be subject to fines or penalties. Under the Administrative Regulation on Housing Fund, an employer must make a housing fund payment, deposit registration upon its establishment and pay the housing fund for and on behalf of its employees at a percentage between 5% and 12% of the respective employee’s monthly average wage of the preceding year. If an employer fails to make the housing fund payment and deposit registration, the housing fund administration authority may order it to complete the registration within a time limit or be assessed a fine of RMB10,000 to RMB50,000. Where an employer fails to make the housing fund payment for and on behalf of its employees within the time limit or under the requisite percentage, it may be ordered by the housing fund administration authority to deposit the fund, together with late fees of 0.03% of such amount. Due to inconsistent implementation and interpretation by local authorities in the PRC and different levels of acceptance of the social security system by employees, Pingtan Fishing has not made the housing fund payment and deposit registration or paid the housing fund for and on behalf of its employees before January 2014. In the future, we may be required to make housing fund payments for the time before January 2014, the amount of which is approximately $27,000, pay late fees and pay fines for non-compliance. PRC regulation of loans to and direct investments in PRC entities by offshore holding companies may delay or prevent us from financing Pingtan Guansheng. Any funds we transfer to Pingtan Guansheng, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, are subject to approval by or registration with relevant governmental authorities in China. According to the relevant PRC regulations on foreign invested enterprises in China, capital contributions to Pingtan Guansheng are subject to the approval of the MOFCOM or its local branches and registration with other governmental authorities in China. In addition, (a) any foreign loan procured by Pingtan Guansheng is required to be registered with SAFE or its local branches, and (b) Pingtan Guansheng may not procure loans which exceed the difference between its registered capital and its total investment amount as approved by the MOFCOM or its local branches. Any medium or long term loan to be provided by us to Pingtan Guansheng must be approved by the National Development and Reform Commission and the SAFE or its local branches. We may be unable to obtain these government approvals or complete such registration on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to capital contributions or foreign loans by it to its PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such approvals or complete such registration, the ability to fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to fund and expand our business. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated the Circular on Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 142. SAFE Circular 142 provides that any Renminbi capital converted from registered capital in foreign currency of a foreign invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by PRC governmental authority and such Renminbi capital may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless otherwise permitted by the PRC law. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the Renminbi capital converted from registered capital in foreign currency of a foreign invested enterprise. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be changed without SAFE approval, and such Renminbi capital may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been utilized. Any violation of SAFE Circular 142 could result in severe monetary or other penalties. As a result, after the consummation of the business combination, we will be required to apply Renminbi funds converted within the business scope of Pingtan Guansheng. SAFE Circular 142 significantly limits our ability to transfer the net proceeds from us prior or any future offering of additional equity securities to Pingtan Guansheng or invest in or acquire any other companies in the PRC. On November 19, 2010 SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Policy of further Improvement and Adjustment of the Administration of the Direct Investment by Foreign Currency, or SAFE Circular 59, requiring SAFE to closely examine the authenticity of settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings. In particular, it is specifically required that any net proceed settled from offshore offerings shall be applied in the manner described in the offering documents. On November 9, 2011, SAFE promulgated the Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning further Defining and Managing Part of the Foreign Currency Business in Capital Projects, or SAFE Circular 45. SAFE Circular 45 further provides that a foreign-investment enterprise should not use the Renminbi capital converted from registered capital in foreign currency in the equity investment. Due to the fact that the business scope of Pingtan Guansheng does not include equity investment, according to the aforementioned regulations, Pingtan Guansheng may not use Renminbi converted from foreign currency-denominated capital for purposes equity investment, and it must use such capital within its business scope, such as the sales of aquatic products or import and export of various commodities and technologies. Therefore, SAFE Circulars 142, 59 and 45 may significantly limit our ability to convert, transfer and use the net proceeds from our prior or any future offering of equity securities in China, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Risks Relating to Our Securities Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our officers, directors and principal shareholders and their affiliated entities. Our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders and their affiliated entities beneficially own approximately 56.2% of our issued and outstanding shares. These shareholders, if they acted together, would control matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions, and they may not act in the best interests of minority shareholders. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. It is uncertain whether financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, but has not yet been inspected, and as such, investors currently do not have the benefit of PCAOB oversight. Auditors of companies that are registered with the SEC and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the PCAOB and are required by U.S. law to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with U.S. law and professional standards in connection with their audits of public company financial statements filed with the SEC. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, the audit work and practices of its auditor, like other registered audit firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by the PCAOB. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China also makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. As a result, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. You must rely on price appreciation of our shares and not on dividends for return on your investment. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares or preferred shares. We do not, anticipate paying any cash dividends on ordinary shares and plan to retain earnings, if any, for use in the development of the Company or our business. Therefore, you should not expect to receive any future dividend income. Our board of directors has significant discretion as to whether to distribute dividends. Even if dividends are paid, the timing, amount and form of future dividends, if any, will depend on, among other things, future results of operations and cash flow, capital requirements and surplus, the amount of distributions, if any, received from PRC subsidiaries, financial position, contractual restrictions, Cayman and PRC laws, and other factors deemed relevant. Accordingly, the return on your investment will likely depend entirely upon any future price appreciation of our shares. Our shares may not appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you invested. Shareholders may face difficulties in protecting their interests, and their ability to protect their rights through the United States federal courts may be limited because we re incorporated under Cayman Islands law, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China and all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries. All of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for our shareholders to bring an action against us or these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if shareholders are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. 23 If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our business prospects and stock valuation could be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have expended significant resources to comply with our obligations under Section 404 with respect to the year ended December 31, 2013. If we are unable to comply with our obligations under Section 404 in the future or experience delays in future reports of our management and outside auditors on our internal control over financial reporting, or if we fail to respond timely to any changes in the Section 404 requirements, we may be unable to timely file with the SEC our periodic reports and may be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC and the NASDAQ, including delisting from the NASDAQ, securities litigation, events of default under our new credit facilities, debt rating agency downgrades or rating withdrawals and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the valuation of our common stock. Compliance with rules and requirements applicable to public companies will cause us to incur additional costs, and any failure by us to comply with such rules and requirements could negatively affect investor confidence in us and cause the value of our securities to decline. As a relatively new public company, we are incurring significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, many of which are not reflected in our historical financial statements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules adopted by the SEC, has required changes in the corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. Complying with these rules and requirements may be especially difficult and costly for us because it may have difficulty locating sufficient personnel in China with experience and expertise relating to U.S. GAAP and United States public company reporting requirements, and such personnel may command high salaries. If we cannot employ sufficient personnel to ensure compliance with these rules and regulations, we may need to rely more on outside legal, accounting and financial experts, which may be very costly. The prices at which shares of our ordinary shares are traded will likely be volatile. You should expect the prices at which our ordinary shares are traded to be highly volatile. Our progress in developing and commercializing our products, the impact of government regulations on our products and industry, the potential sale of a large volume of our ordinary shares by shareholders, our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us or our competitors could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate substantially with significant market losses. As a result, this may make it difficult or impossible for holders of our ordinary shares to sell shares when they want and at prices they find attractive. The market price of the warrants is directly affected by the market price of our ordinary shares, which may be volatile. We believe that the market price of the Warrants is significantly affected by the market price of our ordinary shares. We cannot predict how our ordinary shares will trade in the future. This may result in greater volatility in the market price of the warrants than would be expected for non-exercisable securities. Under certain circumstances, holders may have to pay U.S. federal income tax as a result of a deemed distribution with respect to our ordinary shares or warrantseven if holders do not receive a corresponding distribution of cashsuch as, if we adjust, or fail to adjust, the exercise price of the warrants in certain circumstances. Holders of our ordinary shares or warrants may be treated as having received a constructive distribution in certain circumstances, for example if we make certain adjustments to (or fail to make adjustments to) the exercise price of the warrants and such adjustment (or failure to make an adjustment) has the effect of increasing the proportionate interest of certain holders in our earnings and profits or assets. Such a distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain for U.S. federal income tax purposes even though holders do not receive any cash with respect to such constructive distribution. In addition, you may be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax on any such constructive distribution on our ordinary shares or warrants. You are advised to consult your independent tax advisor regarding the possibility and tax treatment of any deemed distributions for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 24 Until the exercise of the warrants, holders of these securities do not have identical rights as holders of our ordinary shares, but they will be subject to all changes made with respect to our ordinary shares. Holders of the warrants are not entitled to any rights with respect to our ordinary shares (including, without limitation, voting rights and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on our ordinary shares), but they will be subject to all changes affecting our ordinary shares. Holders of warrants will have rights with respect to our ordinary shares only if they receive our ordinary shares upon exercise of the warrants and only as of the date when such holder becomes a record owner of our ordinary shares upon such exercise. For example, with respect to warrants, if an amendment is proposed to our memorandum and articles of incorporation requiring shareholder approval and the record date for determining the shareholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to the date a warrant holder is deemed to be the owner of our ordinary shares due upon exercise of the warrants, the exercising warrant holder will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although such holder will nevertheless be subject to any changes in the powers, preferences or special rights of our ordinary shares. The market price of our ordinary shares may or may not exceed the exercise price of the warrants. As of the date of this prospectus, the market price of our ordinary shares did not exceed the exercise price of our warrants, and we cannot provide you with any assurance that that the market price of our ordinary shares will ever exceed the exercise price of the warrants in any or all periods prior to the date of expiration. Any warrants not exercised by their date of expiration will expire worthless and we will be under no further obligation to the warrant holders. Since the warrants are executory contracts, they may have no value in a bankruptcy or reorganization proceeding. In the event a bankruptcy or reorganization proceeding is commenced by or against us, a bankruptcy court may hold that any unexercised warrants are executory contracts that are subject to rejection by us with the approval of the bankruptcy court. As a result, holders of the warrants may, even if we have sufficient funds, not be entitled to receive any consideration for their warrants or may receive an amount less than they would be entitled to if they had exercised their warrants prior to the commencement of any such bankruptcy or reorganization proceeding. We may sell equity securities in the future, which would cause dilution. We may sell equity securities in the future to obtain funds for general corporate or other purposes. We may sell these securities at a discount to the market price. Any future sales of equity securities will dilute the holdings of existing holders of our ordinary shares, possibly reducing the value of their investment. The exercise of warrants to purchase our ordinary shares will increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our existing shareholders. There are outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 8,966,667 of our ordinary shares. To the extent such warrants are exercised, additional shares of our ordinary shares will be issued, which will result in dilution to the existing holders of our ordinary shares and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Although our ordinary shares are currently listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the continued listing standards. The NASDAQ Capital Market may delist our ordinary shares from trading on its exchange for failure to meet the continued listing standards. If our ordinary shares were delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, we and our shareholders could face significant material adverse consequences including: ¨ a limited availability of market quotations for our ordinary shares; ¨ a determination that our ordinary shares is a “penny stock” would require brokers trading in our ordinary shares to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our ordinary shares; ¨ a limited amount of analyst coverage; and 25 ¨ a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Our ordinary shares are currently listed for trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “PME”. The warrants may be thinly traded, so you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or even at all if you need to sell your warrants to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your warrants. The warrants are quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board and may be “thinly-traded,” meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing the warrants at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation could be attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a relatively new company that may be unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days, weeks or months when trading activity in the warrants is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on the price of the warrants. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for the warrants will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained or not diminish. Our management will have broad discretion over the use of the proceeds that we receive from the exercise of the warrants and might not apply the proceeds in ways that increase the value our ordinary shares. We will receive the proceeds from the exercise of our warrants, but not from the sale of the underlying ordinary shares. We also will not receive the proceeds from any resales by the selling securityholders of any ordinary shares or warrants. Our management will have broad discretion to use the proceeds that we receive from the exercise of the warrants, and you will be relying on the judgment of our management regarding the application of these proceeds. Our management might not apply these proceeds in ways that increase the value our ordinary shares. We intend to use these proceeds primarily for general corporate purposes, including working capital, sales and marketing activities, general and administrative matters, repayment of indebtedness, and capital expenditures. We may also use a portion of these proceeds to acquire or invest in complementary products or businesses. Pending the foregoing uses, we intend to invest the proceeds that we receive from the exercise of our warrants in short-term, investment-grade, interest-bearing securities, and these investments may not yield a favorable rate of return. If we do not invest or apply the proceeds that we receive from the exercise of our warrants in ways that enhance shareholder value, we may fail to achieve expected financial results, which could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. You will not have the opportunity to influence our decisions on how we use the proceeds that we receive from the exercise of the warrants. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our ordinary shares adversely, the price and trading volume of our securities could decline. Securities and industry analysts do not currently, and may never, publish research on us. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our ordinary shares adversely, the price and trading volume of our securities could decline. The trading markets for our securities will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors. If no securities or industry analysts commence coverage of us, the market price and trading volume of our securities would likely be negatively impacted. If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendation regarding our securities adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our securities would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the market price or trading volume of our securities to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 