D. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this annual report, before making an investment in our common shares. Any of the risk factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition or operating results, which may reduce our ability to pay dividends and lower the trading price of our common shares. You may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history, which makes it more difficult to accurately forecast our future results and may make it difficult for investors to evaluate our business and our future prospects, both of which will increase the risk of your investment in our common shares. We did not begin to recognize operating revenue until the Pacific Bora commenced drilling operations on August 26, 2011. The Pacific Scirocco and the Pacific Mistral commenced drilling operations on December 31, 2011 and February 6, 2012 respectively. The Pacific Santa Ana was delivered in December 2011 and is expected to enter service in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in the second quarter of 2012. Because of our limited operating history, we lack extensive historical financial and operational data, making it more difficult for an investor to evaluate our business, forecast our future revenues and other operating results and assess the merits and risks of an investment in our common shares. This lack of information will increase the risk of your investment in our common shares. Moreover, you should consider and evaluate our prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies with a limited operating history. These risks and difficulties include challenges in accurate financial planning as a result of limited historical data and the uncertainties resulting from having had a relatively limited time period in which to implement and evaluate our business strategies as compared to older companies with longer operating histories. If we are not able to successfully meet these challenges, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We have a limited asset base and currently rely on three customer accounts. The loss of any customer or significant downtime on any drillship could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of our relatively small fleet of drillships, we anticipate revenues will depend on contracts with a limited number of customers. We currently have seven drillships, two of which are currently under contract with the same customer, subsidiaries of Chevron Corporation (“Chevron”), one of which is under contract with a subsidiary of Total S.A. (“Total”), one of which is under contract with a subsidiary of Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (“Petrobras”), two of which are under construction with Samsung Heavy Industries (“SHI”), scheduled for delivery in the second and third quarter of 2013, respectively, and which are not yet under contract and a recently ordered seventh drillship, scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2014, which is also not yet under contract. Our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected if any one of these customers was to interrupt or curtail its activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Nigeria or Brazil, fail to pay for the services that have been performed, terminate its contract with us, fail to renew its existing contract 9 Table of Contents with us or refuse to award new contracts to us and we are unable to enter into contracts with new customers on comparable terms. The loss of Chevron, Total or Petrobras as a customer could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our limited number of drillships makes us more susceptible to incremental loss in the event of downtime on any one operating unit. If any one of our drillships becomes inactive for a substantial period of time and not otherwise earning contractual revenues, it could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. The contract drilling industry is highly competitive. Compared to companies with greater resources, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. The offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants, none of which has a dominant market share. Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. The proposed dayrate is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a contract, although rig availability and the quality and technical capability of service and equipment are also important factors. Other key factors include a contractor’s reputation for service, safety record, environmental record, technical and engineering support and long-term relationships with national and international oil and natural gas companies. Our competitors in the offshore contract drilling industry generally have larger, more diverse fleets, longer operating histories with established safety and environmental records over a measurable period of time, long-term relationships with customers and appreciably greater financial and other resources and assets than we do. Similarly, some of these competitors are significantly better capitalized than we are, which may make them preferable to us to the extent the customer is concerned about our ability to cover potentially significant liabilities. As a result, our competitors have competitive advantages that may adversely affect our efforts to contract our drillships on favorable terms, if at all, and correspondingly negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, we are at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors that are better capitalized because they are in a better position to withstand the effects of a downturn in our industry. Our global operations may be adversely affected by political and economic circumstances in the countries in which we operate. A significant portion of our business is conducted in Nigeria, which exposes us to risks of war, local economic instabilities, corruption, political disruption and civil disturbance in that region. A primary component of our business strategy is to operate in global oil and natural gas producing areas. We are subject to a number of risks inherent in any business that operates globally, including: • political, social and economic instability, war, piracy and acts of terrorism; • potential seizure, expropriation or nationalization of assets; • damage to our equipment or violence directed at our employees, including kidnappings; • increased operating costs; • complications associated with supplying, repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; • repudiation, modification or renegotiation of contracts; • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk and named windstorm coverage in certain areas; • import-export quotas; • confiscatory taxation; • work stoppages; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • wage and price controls; • imposition of trade barriers; 10 Table of Contents • imposition or changes in interpretation and enforcement of local content laws, such as those we must currently comply with in Nigeria and Brazil; • restrictions on currency or capital repatriations; • solicitation by government officials for improper payments or other forms of corruption; • currency fluctuations and devaluations; and • other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control. These risks may be higher in the developing countries such as Nigeria, where the Pacific Bora entered service in August 2011 under a three-year drilling contract with a wholly-owned Nigerian subsidiary of Chevron and the Pacific Scirocco entered service in December 2011 under a one-year drilling contract with a subsidiary of Total, with two one-year options and one two-year option. Countries in West Africa have experienced political and economic instability in the past and such instability may continue in the future. Additionally, Nigeria is ranked 143 out of 182 countries in Transparency International’s 2011 Corruption Perceptions Index and placed 133 out of 183 in the World Bank’s Doing Business 2011 report. Furthermore, there are significant sectarian tensions in Nigeria among the numerous different ethnic and tribal groups, which have resulted in sporadic violence. Disruptions may occur in the future, and losses caused by these disruptions may occur that will not be covered by insurance. Our business could be affected adversely by union disputes and strikes or work stoppages by our employees. In addition, our labor costs and the operating restrictions under which we operate could increase as a result of collective bargaining negotiations and changes in labor laws and regulations. Some of our employees working in Nigeria and Brazil are represented by unions, and some of our contracted labor work under collective bargaining agreements. Many of these represented individuals are working under agreements that are subject to annual salary negotiation. The Company cannot predict the results of any such collective bargaining negotiations or whether any such negotiations will result in a work stoppage. In addition, employees may strike for reasons unrelated to our union arrangements, such as the recent strike in Nigeria where protests over doubling fuel prices recently resulted in the longest national strike in the country’s history. Any future work stoppage could, depending on the affected operations and the length of the work stoppage, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. These negotiations could result in higher personnel expenses, other increased costs or increased operational restrictions as the outcome of such negotiations apply to all offshore employees not just the union members. Although our U.S. employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the marine services industry has been targeted by maritime labor unions in an effort to organize U.S. Gulf of Mexico employees. In addition, legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress that could encourage additional unionization efforts in the United States, as well as increase the chances that such efforts succeed. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers or the unionization of our U.S. Gulf of Mexico employees could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. Additional unionization efforts, if successful, or new collective bargaining agreements could materially increase our labor costs. An oversupply of comparable or higher specification rigs could depress the demand and contract prices for ultra-deepwater rigs and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. There are numerous high-specification rigs currently under contract for construction in the industry worldwide. We estimate there are approximately 47 ultra-deepwater rigs scheduled for delivery between March 20, 2012 and the end of 2014, 32 of which are not yet contracted to customers. The entry into service of these new units will increase supply and could curtail a strengthening, or trigger a reduction, in dayrates as rigs are absorbed into the active fleet. Any increase in construction of drilling units could negatively impact 11 Table of Contents utilization and dayrates. Lower utilization and dayrates could require us to enter into lower dayrate contracts or to idle one or more of our drillships, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or result in the recognition of impairment charges on our drillships. The demand for our services depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and natural gas industry, which is significantly affected by oil and natural gas prices and other factors beyond our control. The demand for our services depends on the level of activity in oil and natural gas exploration, development and production in offshore areas worldwide. Oil and natural gas prices and market expectations about potential changes in these prices significantly affect this level of activity. Higher spot market commodity prices do not necessarily or quickly translate into increased drilling activity since customers’ expectations about long-term commodity prices also drive demand for offshore drilling services. Likewise, increased competition for customers’ drilling budgets could come from markets in which we do not provide services, such as land-based energy markets in Africa, Russia, Western Asia, the Middle East, North America and elsewhere. Customers’ drilling programs are also affected by the availability of attractive drilling prospects, results of exploratory drilling, relative production costs, the stage of reservoir development, budgetary constraints and political and regulatory environments. Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. For example, since January 1, 2011, the New York Mercantile Exchange (the “NYMEX”) daily settlement price for the prompt month crude oil contract has ranged from a high of $113 per barrel to a low of $75 per barrel. Since January 1, 2011, the NYMEX daily settlement price for the prompt month natural gas contract ranged from a high of $4.68 per MMBtu to a low of $2.27 per MMBtu. As of March 20, 2012, the NYMEX daily settlement price for the prompt month crude oil contract was $106 per barrel, while the NYMEX daily settlement price for the prompt month natural gas contract was $2.32 per MMBtu. The markets and prices for crude oil and natural gas depend on factors beyond our control. These factors include: • worldwide demand for oil and natural gas, including economic conditions and activity in the United States, China and other energy-consuming markets; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas, and the relative cost of onshore production or importation of natural gas; • the ability of the Organization for Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to set and maintain production levels and pricing; • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; • expectations regarding future prices and levels of production of oil and natural gas; • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; • the development and exploitation of alternative fuels, and the competitive, regulatory and political position of hydrocarbons as a source of energy compared with other energy sources; • the availability and discovery rate of new oil and natural gas reserves; • the rate of decline of existing and new oil and natural gas reserves; • global economic and weather conditions; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • domestic and international tax policies, currency controls and government regulations; • the ability of oil and natural gas companies to raise capital; 12 Table of Contents • the worldwide military and political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere; and • acts of civil disobedience or piracy that affect oil and natural gas producing regions, especially in West Africa, where armed conflict and civil unrest remain a concern. Sustained low market prices for oil and natural gas may cause companies exploring for oil and natural gas to cancel or curtail their drilling programs, thereby reducing demand for drilling services. Any reduction in the demand for drilling services may materially erode dayrates and/or utilization rates for our drillships, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could have a significant negative impact on the market price of our common shares. Because our business is focused exclusively on the offshore drilling market, adverse developments in the offshore drilling industry could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from the offshore drilling business. Therefore, any adverse development in the deepwater offshore drilling market would have a significantly more negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than if we operated a more diversified business. The imposition of stringent restrictions or prohibitions on offshore drilling by any governing body may have a material adverse effect on our business. Events in recent years have heightened environmental and regulatory concerns about the oil and natural gas industry. From time to time, governing bodies may propose and have enacted legislation or regulations that may materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in certain areas. If laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that delay, restrict or prohibit offshore drilling in our expected areas of operation, our business could be materially adversely affected. For example, the U.S. governmental response to the Deepwater Horizon incident in April 2010 and resulting oil spill could have a prolonged and material adverse impact on drilling operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Following the April 2010 fire and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling platform owned by a competitor and subsequent release of oil from the Macondo well in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the Obama Administration and regulatory agencies with jurisdiction over oil and natural gas exploration, including the U.S. Department of the Interior (“DOI”) and the federal Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement (“BOEMRE,” a successor agency to the DOI’s Minerals Management Service) imposed temporary moratoria on drilling operations, required operators to reapply for exploration plans and drilling permits that had previously been approved, and adopted numerous new environmental, technological, and safety regulations and/or new interpretations of such existing regulations with respect to operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico that are applicable to our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers and with which their new applications for exploration plans and drilling permits must prove compliant. These new and/or newly interpreted existing regulations require operators to, among other things, submit independent third-party reports on the design and operation of blowout preventers (“BOPs”) and other well control systems, conduct tests on the functionality of well control systems, comply with new standards for certain equipment involved in the construction of offshore wells, including BOPs, and implement and enforce a safety and environmental management system, including regular third-party audits of safety procedures and drilling equipment to assure that offshore rig personnel and equipment remain in compliance with the new regulations. Moreover, prior to the resumption of drilling following the moratorium, each operator is required to demonstrate that it has in place written and enforceable procedures, pursuant to applicable regulations, that ensure containment in the event of a deepwater blowout. Since early 2011, there has been gradual improvement in the number of approved drilling permits per month, however, it is possible that this pace of improvement could slow or reverse as a result of uncertainties with respect to implementation and interpretation of the regulations and other regulatory initiatives issued by the DOI 13 Table of Contents and/or the BOEMRE. Moreover, effective October 1, 2011, the BOEMRE was split into two federal bureaus, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (“BOEM”), which handles, among other things, review and administration of oil and gas exploration and development plans, and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (“BSEE”), which is responsible for, among other things, the development and enforcement of safety and environmental regulations and permitting of offshore exploration, development and production activities. Since October 1, 2011, our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers have been interacting with two newly formed federal bureaus to obtain approval of their exploration and development plans and issuance of drilling permits, which may result in added plan approval or drilling permit delays as the functions of the former BOEMRE are fully divested from the former agency and implemented in the two federal bureaus. Third party challenges to industry drilling operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico may also serve to further delay or restrict exploration activities. Any recovery of growth prospects in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico may stall if the current pace of drill permit issuance by the BSEE does not increase significantly. In this regulatory environment, Chevron may be unable to commence drilling operations in mid-2012 with the Pacific Santa Ana in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico according to its original plans. In such case, and pursuant to the contract, Chevron may choose either to operate the Pacific Santa Ana in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico performing operations permitted under existing regulations at that time, to operate the Pacific Santa Ana outside of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico or to pay the contractual standby dayrate. Chevron may also choose to exercise the contract’s termination clause, under which Chevron would be required to pay a standby rate to us on a monthly basis for the remaining period of the contract. The U.S. Gulf of Mexico represents a significant portion of the industry’s existing deepwater drillship demand. BOEMRE’s temporary moratorium and the new or newly interpreted regulations and other regulatory initiatives have created significant uncertainty regarding the outlook of offshore drilling activity in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and possible implications for regions outside of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. If the new regulations, operating procedures and possibility of increased legal liability are viewed by our current or future customers as a significant impairment to expected profitability on drilling projects in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, deepwater drillships and other floating rigs could depart the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, which would likely affect the global supply and demand balance for such drillships and rigs, resulting in lower dayrates and/or utilization and a more competitive and challenging business environment in the international sector. In addition to the new safety requirements issued by BOEMRE, the BSEE could issue additional safety and environmental guidelines or regulations for drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico that could disrupt or delay drilling operations, increase the cost of drilling operations or reduce the area of operations for deepwater drilling rigs, and other governments could take similar actions. For example, in November 2011, the BSEE announced a change in its enforcement policies, pursuant to which the agency has extended its regulatory enforcement reach to include contractors as well as offshore lease operators. Consequently, the BSEE may elect to hold contractors, including drilling contractors, liable for alleged violations of law arising in the BSEE’s jurisdictional area. Implementation of this announced change in enforcement policy by the BSEE could subject us to added liabilities, including sanctions and penalties, as well as increased costs arising from contractual arrangements in master services agreements that failed to take into account such change in enforcement policy. Moreover, there exists the possibility of added exploration and development plan approval or drilling permit delays as the functions of the former BOEMRE are fully divested from the former agency into the two newly created federal bureaus. All of these uncertainties could result in increased future operating costs, including insurance costs, which we may not be able to pass through to our customers. Our contract drilling operations may be adversely affected by various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate relating to the equipment and operation of drilling units, oil and natural gas exploration and development and import and export activities. Governments in some foreign countries have been increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration for oil and natural gas and other aspects of the oil and natural gas industries in their countries, including local content requirements for participating in tenders for certain drilling contracts. Many governments favor or effectively require that drilling 14 Table of Contents contracts be awarded to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may result in inefficiencies or put us at a disadvantage when we bid for contracts against local competitors. In addition, the shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import and export activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Moreover, many countries control the import and export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related import and export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments also may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities, and we are also subject to the U.S. anti-boycott law. The laws and regulations concerning import and export activity, recordkeeping and reporting, import and export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our operations. The global economic downturn may increase some foreign governments’ efforts to enact, enforce, amend or interpret laws and regulations as a method to increase revenue. Shipments can be delayed and denied import or export for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside our control and some of which may result from failure to comply with existing legal and regulatory regimes. Shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled operational downtime. Any failure to comply with these applicable legal and regulatory obligations also could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges. We may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available in the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. Delays or cost overruns in the construction of new drillships or the modification of existing drillships could adversely affect our business. These risks are concentrated because all of our drillships currently on order and under construction are being built by SHI in South Korea. As of March 20, 2012, we have a total of two ultra-deepwater newbuild drillships currently under construction (the Pacific Khamsin and the Pacific Sharav) and one on order (our seventh drillship). The construction contract for the seventh drillship also includes an option for an eighth newbuild drillship on the same terms and conditions as those for the seventh drillship. We may enter into agreements to commence newbuild projects in the future. Additionally, as part of our growth strategy we may contract from time to time for the construction of drilling units. Such construction projects are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including costs or delays resulting from the following: • shipyard availability; • unexpected delays in delivery times for, or shortages of, key equipment, parts and materials; • shortages of skilled labor and other shipyard personnel necessary to perform the work; • shortages or unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel; • unforeseen design and engineering problems, including those relating to the commissioning of newly designed equipment; • unanticipated actual or purported change orders; • work stoppages and labor disputes; • latent damages or deterioration to hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; 15 Table of Contents • delays in, or inability to obtain, access to financing; • failure or delay of third-party service providers and labor disputes; • disputes with shipyards and suppliers; • our requests for changes to the original rig specifications; • delays and unexpected costs of incorporating parts and materials needed for the completion of projects; • financial or other difficulties at shipyards and suppliers; • adverse weather conditions or storm damage; • inability to obtain required permits or approvals; and • defective construction and the resultant need for remedial work. These factors may contribute to cost variances and delays in the delivery of our newbuild units. Our risks are concentrated because all of our drillships currently on order and under construction are being built by SHI in South Korea. We intend to enter into drilling contracts with respect to the Pacific Khamsin, the Pacific Sharav and our seventh drillship prior to the delivery dates if market conditions permit. If we have entered into drilling contracts with respect to these drillships prior to delivery, any delays in the delivery of our drillships would result in a loss of revenue and may subject us to penalties due to delays in contract commencement and may result in termination or shortening of the term of the drilling contract for the rig by the customer pursuant to applicable late delivery clauses. We will not receive any material increase in revenue or cash flow from new or modified drillships until they are placed in service and customers enter into binding arrangements for the use of such drillships. In the event of termination of one of these contracts, we may not be able to secure a replacement contract on as favorable terms, or at all. If we experience delays and costs overruns in the construction of our drillships due to any of the factors listed above, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Shortages of equipment, spare parts and ancillary services could have a negative impact on our operations. Our operations rely on the timely supply of equipment and spare parts to maintain and repair our fleet. We also rely on the supply of ancillary services, including, among others, supply boats, helicopter services, catering services and engineering and technical services. Shortages in materials, delays in the delivery of necessary spare parts, equipment or other materials, or the unavailability of ancillary services could negatively impact our operations and result in increases in rig downtime and delays in the repair and maintenance of our fleet. Our current backlog of contract drilling revenue may not be fully realized. As of March 20, 2012, we had a contract backlog on the Pacific Bora, the Pacific Scirocco, the Pacific Mistral and the Pacific Santa Ana of approximately $2.1 billion. We calculate our contract backlog by multiplying the contractual dayrate by the minimum number of days committed under the contracts (excluding options to extend), assuming full utilization, and also include mobilization fees, upgrade reimbursements and other revenue sources, such as the standby rate during upgrades, as stipulated in the contract. The actual amounts of revenues earned and the actual periods during which revenues are earned may differ from the amounts and periods shown in the tables provided in Item 4, “Business Overview—Contract Backlog” of this annual report due to various factors, including shipyard and maintenance projects, downtime and other factors. See Item 4, “Business Overview—Contract Backlog.” The contractual dayrate used to calculate average estimated contract backlog per day is higher than other rates that may be in effect at certain times under the contract, including the standby rate or waiting on weather 16 Table of Contents rate, the repair rate or the force majeure rate. We may not be able to realize the full amount of our contract backlog due to events beyond our control. In addition, some of our customers may experience liquidity issues, which could worsen if commodity prices declined to lower levels for an extended period of time. Liquidity issues could lead our customers to go into bankruptcy or could encourage our customers to seek to repudiate, cancel or renegotiate these agreements for various reasons, as described under “—Our drilling contracts may be terminated early in certain circumstances” below. Our inability to realize the full amount of our contract backlog could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Failure to secure drilling contracts prior to deployment of our remaining newbuild drillships or currently operating drillships after the expiration of existing contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have not yet secured drilling contracts for the Pacific Khamsin, the Pacific Sharav or our seventh drillship, which are being built by SHI and are scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2013, the third quarter of 2013 and the second quarter of 2014, respectively. In addition, the drilling contract on the Pacific Scirocco will terminate on December 31, 2012, unless Total chooses to exercise its option to extend the contract for another year. Our ability to obtain drilling contracts for these drillships will depend on market conditions and our customers’ drilling programs. If the ultra-deepwater drilling market is experiencing overcapacity when the Pacific Khamsin, the Pacific Sharav and our seventh drillship are delivered or when the contracts on our currently operating drillships expire, we may not be able to contract these drillships on favorable terms, or at all. Our failure to secure a drilling contract for any of our uncontracted drillships could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and business prospects. As of March 20, 2012, we and our subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, had approximately $1,975 million of debt, comprised of $1,675 borrowed under our Project Facilities Agreement (as defined and described in further detail in Item 5, “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Description of Indebtedness”) that is secured by substantially all of our assets and $300 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured bonds due 2015. Our substantial level of indebtedness, and the terms of the agreements that govern such indebtedness, may have important consequences for your investment and our business such as: • requiring us and our subsidiaries to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the debt, which would reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments, which may limit our ability to execute our business strategy; • heighten our vulnerability to downturns in business or the general economy and restrict us from exploiting business opportunities or making acquisitions; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • result in higher interest expense if interest rates increase for the portion of our indebtedness that has not been hedged. Each of these factors may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and business prospects. We may also incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If we incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we now face would intensify and could further exacerbate the risks associated 17 Table of Contents with our substantial leverage. Our ability to service our debt depends upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which is affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our cash flows from operations are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. The Project Facilities Agreement and our Senior Unsecured Bonds issued in the 2012 Bond Offering impose significant operating and financial restrictions on certain of our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions. The Project Facilities Agreement contains numerous restrictions on the activities of our subsidiary, Pacific Drilling Limited (as guarantor of borrowings under the Project Facilities Agreement) and all of its subsidiaries, including Pacific Bora Ltd., Pacific Scirocco Ltd., Pacific Mistral Ltd. and Pacific Santa Ana Ltd., each of which is a borrower under the Project Facilities Agreement. Substantially all of our current and expected near-term revenues are derived from these entities. These restrictions limit the ability of each of those entities to, among other things: • make certain types of loans and investments; • make dividends or other payments to us, redeem or repurchase stock, prepay, redeem or repurchase other debt or make other restricted payments; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • use proceeds from asset sales, new indebtedness or equity issuances for general corporate purposes or investment into our current business; • invest in certain new joint ventures; • create or incur liens; • sell assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; • engage in transactions with affiliates; and • enter into new lines of business. The Project Facilities Agreement also contains a number of financial covenants that impose significant restrictions on us, including requirements that our subsidiary, Pacific Drilling Limited, maintain certain liquidity levels and financial ratios. The restrictions and covenants contained in our debt agreements may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in our best interest and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that may subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including meeting financial ratios and tests, may be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants and restrictions could result in a default under the agreements governing our debt. An event of default under any of these agreements would permit some of the lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable. In addition, debt under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness, and we may not be able to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, such financing might not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable. If we were unable to repay amounts borrowed, the holders of the debt could initiate a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding. 18 Table of Contents Our Senior Unsecured Bonds issued in the 2012 Bond Offering (each as defined below) contain provisions that limit, with certain exceptions, the ability of the Company and our subsidiaries to (i) merge or demerge, (ii) dispose of assets, (iii) incur financial indebtedness and (iv) pay dividends exceeding 50% of consolidated net income for the preceding fiscal year, provided, however, that such restriction does not apply for dividend payments through December 31, 2012 up to $100 million if the Company has a minimum liquidity of $50 million immediately following such dividend. The bonds also require compliance with financial covenants including (i) a minimum equity ratio of 35%, (ii) a minimum liquidity of $25 million and (iii) a leverage restriction limiting the outstanding secured and unsecured borrowings on a consolidated basis (excluding Temporary Import Bond Facilities) to an average of $475 million per drillship. The Senior Unsecured Bonds contain events of default that are usual and customary for a financing of this type, size and purpose. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, borrowings under the Senior Unsecured Bonds are subject to acceleration. See Item 5, “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Description of Indebtedness” for a description of the restrictions and covenants applicable to our Project Facilities Agreement and the Senior Unsecured Bonds issued in the 2012 Bond Offering. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness and other obligations. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on, or refinance, our indebtedness and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. A significant reduction in our operating cash flows, including as a result of changes in general economic conditions, timing of contracts or payments, legislative or regulatory conditions, increased competition or other events beyond our control, could increase the need for additional or alternative sources of liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to service our debt and other obligations. See Item 5, “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Description of Indebtedness” for more information regarding our amortization payment schedule with respect to our borrowings under the Project Facilities Agreement and the senior unsecured bonds issued in our 2012 Bond Offering. If we are unable to service our indebtedness or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as reducing capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing indebtedness, seeking additional equity capital or any combination of the foregoing. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity securities, existing shareholders may experience dilution. We cannot assure you that any of these alternative strategies could be effected on satisfactory terms, or at all, or that they would yield sufficient funds to enable us to make required payments on our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Reducing or delaying capital expenditures or selling assets could delay future cash flows. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. Our failure to generate sufficient operating cash flow or to achieve any of these alternatives could significantly adversely affect the value of our securities. In addition, if we default in the payment of amounts due on any current indebtedness, such default would give rise to an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness and could lead to the possible acceleration of amounts due under any of our outstanding indebtedness. In the event of any acceleration, we may not have enough cash to repay our outstanding indebtedness. Operating and maintenance costs will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. We do not expect operating and maintenance costs to fluctuate in direct proportion to changes in operating revenues. The principal components of our operating costs are, among other things, direct and indirect costs of labor and benefits, maintenance and spare parts and insurance. Operating revenues may fluctuate as a function of changes in dayrates. However, costs for operating a drillship are generally fixed or only semi-variable regardless of the dayrate being earned. In addition, should one of our drillships incur idle time between contracts, we would typically maintain the crew to prepare the drillship for its next contract and would not reduce costs to correspond with the decrease in revenue. During times of moderate activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate, as the crew may be required to prepare the drillship for stacking, after which time the crew will be reduced to a level 19 Table of Contents necessary to maintain the drillship in working condition with the extra crew members assigned to active drillships or dismissed. In addition, as drillships are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity a drillship is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. Failure to employ a sufficient number of skilled workers or an increase in labor costs could negatively affect our operations. We require skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services to, and support for, our drillships. In periods of increasing activity and when the number of operating units in our areas of operation increases, either because of new construction, re-activation of idle units or the mobilization of units into the region, shortages of qualified personnel could arise, creating upward pressure on wages, higher turnover and difficulty in staffing. A shortage of qualified personnel, the inability to obtain and retain qualified personnel or a reduction in the experience level of our personnel as a result of increased turnover could negatively affect the quality and timeliness of our work and lead to higher downtime and more operating incidents, which in turn could decrease revenues and increase costs. If increased competition for labor were to intensify in the future, we may experience increases in costs or limits on operations. In addition, our ability to expand operations depends in part upon our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. An inability to obtain visas and work permits for our employees on a timely basis could negatively affect our operations and have an adverse effect on our business. Our ability to operate worldwide depends on our ability to obtain the necessary visas and work permits for our personnel to travel in and out of, and to work in, the jurisdictions in which we operate. Governmental actions in some of the jurisdictions in which we operate may make it difficult for us to move our personnel in and out of these jurisdictions by delaying or withholding the approval of these permits. If we are not able to obtain visas and work permits for the employees we need for operating our drillships on a timely basis, we might not be able to perform our obligations under our drilling contracts, which could allow our customers to cancel the contracts. If our customers cancel some of our contracts, and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our business is subject to numerous governmental laws and regulations, including those that may impose significant costs and liability on us for environmental and natural resource damages. Many aspects of our operations are subject to foreign, federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations that may relate directly or indirectly to the contract drilling and well servicing industries, including those requiring us to obtain and maintain specific permits or other governmental approvals to control the discharge of oil and other contaminants into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Countries where we operate have environmental laws and regulations covering the discharge of oil and other contaminants and protection of the environment in connection with our operations. Additionally, any operations and activities in the United States and its territorial waters will be subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, including the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA”), the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (“OCSLA”), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (“MARPOL”), as each has been amended from time to time, and analogous state laws. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and treaties may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and even criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations and the issuance of injunctions that may limit or prohibit some or all of our operations. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years and may in certain circumstances impose strict liability, rendering us liable for environmental and natural 20 Table of Contents resource damages without regard to negligence or fault on our part. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. The application of these laws and regulations, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations that curtail exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and natural gas could materially limit future contract drilling opportunities or materially increase our costs. In addition, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-bribery laws. The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making, offering or authorizing improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We operate in several countries where strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Violations of anti-bribery laws (either due to our acts or our inadvertence) may result in criminal and civil sanctions and could subject us to other liabilities in the U.S. and elsewhere. Even allegations of such violations could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or using other methods that U.S. and foreign laws and regulations and our own policies prohibit us from using. In order to effectively compete in some foreign jurisdictions, we utilize local agents and/or establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners. For example, in Nigeria, we have established the PIDWAL joint venture, which is 90% owned by us and 10% owned by Derotech Offshore Services Limited (“Derotech”), a privately-held Nigerian registered limited liability company. PIDWAL is party to the contract with a subsidiary of Chevron for the Pacific Bora and the contract with a subsidiary of Total for the Pacific Scirocco. Derotech is also performing marketing services for PIDWAL. In addition, we have retained a marketing agent in Brazil and have agreements with agents in both Nigeria and Brazil, pursuant to which the agents, among other activities, process visas, customs clearance of routine shipments of equipment, materials and supplies and process temporary importation permits, extensions and renewals. One of our logistics agents in Nigeria is an affiliate of Derotech. All of these activities involve interaction by our agents with non-U.S. government officials. Even though some of our agents and partners may not themselves be subject to the FCPA or other non-U.S. anti-bribery laws to which we may be subject, if our agents or partners make improper payments to non-U.S. government officials in connection with engagements or partnerships with us, we could be investigated and potentially found liable for violation of such anti-bribery laws and could incur civil and criminal penalties and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have substantial obligations to fund contracts and other arrangements related to the construction of our newbuild drillships under construction. If we fail to meet these obligations or construction of these newbuild drillships is not completed, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations. We have significant contractual commitments to SHI related to the two drillships currently under construction and the recently ordered drillship, the Pacific Khamsin, the Pacific Sharav and our seventh drillship, respectively, totaling approximately $1.4 billion as of March 20, 2012. The SHI contracts for the Pacific Khamsin, the Pacific Sharav and our seventh drillship provide for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion for the acquisition of these three vessels, payable in installments during the construction process, of which we have made payments of $124 million through December 31, 2011. We anticipate making payments of approximately $248 million in 2012, approximately $797 million in 2013 and approximately $330 million in 2014. We will need to secure additional financing in order to fund these payments. In addition, in the event that 21 Table of Contents we exercise our option with SHI to construct an eighth drillship, we will also need to secure funding for construction of that vessel. The final terms and availability of any financing for the obligations related to the construction of the Pacific Khamsin, the Pacific Sharav and our seventh drillship will be determined by, among other factors, current financial market conditions, our creditworthiness and drilling industry conditions. The current financial market conditions are extremely unfavorable to borrowers. We may be unable to obtain or arrange the financing for these new drillships on satisfactory terms. Also, these drillships could be delayed or otherwise not delivered by the shipyard. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We intend to enter into drilling contracts for the Pacific Khamsin, the Pacific Sharav and our seventh drillship prior to their delivery if market conditions permit. If one of our newbuild drillships is delayed, cancelled or not delivered as expected for any reason upon completion of construction, we will not be able to deliver the drillship to our customer under the drilling contract entered into for such drillship and for which we provide a performance guarantee. In such event, we will need to find a replacement unit that is acceptable to our customer. If we are unable to deliver an acceptable replacement, we will lose any anticipated income from the employment of such unit and may be required to pay substantial liquidated damages to our customer. Should we become liable under a performance guarantee, we could be held liable for the customer’s potential damages, including, but not limited to, any increase in rates between our current drilling contract with the customer and any substitute drilling contract such customer may obtain. If we were to lose all or a portion of our investment, including any anticipated revenue from the operation of a drillship, or become liable to a customer for liquidated damages, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain our competitiveness and to comply with laws and the applicable regulations and standards of governmental authorities and organizations, which would negatively affect our financial condition, result of operations and cash flows. Changes in offshore drilling technology, customer requirements for new or upgraded equipment and competition within our industry may require us to make significant capital expenditures in order to maintain our competitiveness. Our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we have, which may enable them to make technological improvements to existing equipment or replace equipment that becomes obsolete. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations, may require us to make additional unforeseen capital expenditures. For example, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to satisfy requirements of the U.S. Coast Guard and the American Bureau of Shipping. As a result, we may be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues, in order to make such alterations or to add such equipment. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate our older vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. If we are unable to fund these capital expenditures with cash flow from operations, we may either incur additional borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our ability to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time, by changes in laws and regulations (or interpretation thereof) and by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity securities, existing shareholders may experience dilution. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures would limit our ability to continue to operate some of our vessels and could have a material adverse effect on our business and on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 22 Table of Contents Worldwide economic and financial problems may materially reduce our revenue, profitability and cash flows. The recent worldwide economic and financial problems reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund business operations worldwide and adversely affected our customers, suppliers and lenders. The recent global recession has caused a reduction in worldwide demand for energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. Demand for our services depends on activity in the oil and natural gas industry and capital expenditure levels, each of which is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices would further depress the current levels of exploration, development and production activity. Perceptions of lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and natural gas companies over the long-term can similarly reduce or delay major expenditures. Lower levels of activity result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Global ultra-deepwater rig demand is heavily dependent on Petrobras’ development plan for offshore Brazil. While disruptions in any region or country or to any major operator have the potential to adversely impact our business either directly through our operations or indirectly through a reduction in overall demand for high-specification, ultra-deepwater rigs, this risk is especially pronounced in Brazil and with respect to Petrobras as an operator. Petrobras has announced a multi-billion dollar drilling program over the next several years to develop recently discovered pre-salt oil fields. As a result, we expect Brazil to be a major source of demand growth in the industry. However, Petrobras may not spend the sums outlined in its 2011-2015 business plan within the next several years or at all. Furthermore, Petrobras may not be able to obtain the necessary financing due to budget pressures, higher interest rates, adverse credit markets and other factors. Lower oil prices or lower-than-expected production may also prompt Petrobras to curtail its drilling program. Any substantial reduction in Petrobras’ proposed drilling program for any reason would reduce demand for drilling services worldwide. Any reduction in the demand for drilling services may materially erode dayrates and/or utilization rates for our drillships, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could have a significant negative impact on the market price of our common shares. New technology and/or products may cause us to become less competitive, negatively impact our operations or increase our costs. The offshore contract drilling industry is subject to the introduction of new drilling techniques and services that utilize new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. New technologies and applications are constantly being developed that improve the economics of producing oil and natural gas and allow for the production of deposits formerly considered uneconomic to develop. As our competitors and others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we may face competitive pressure to implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that may allow them to access technological advantages and implement new technologies before we can. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement new technology or products on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. Thus, our inability to effectively use and implement new and emerging technology could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Technology disputes involving us, our suppliers or sub-suppliers could negatively impact our operations or increase our costs. Drilling units and drilling rig operations use patented or otherwise proprietary technology and, consequently, involve a potential risk of infringement of third party rights. The majority of the intellectual property rights relating to our drillships and related equipment are owned by us or our suppliers or sub-suppliers. 23 Table of Contents In the event that we or one of our suppliers or sub-suppliers becomes involved in a dispute over infringement of intellectual property rights relating to equipment owned or used by us, we may lose access to repair services or replacement parts, or we could be required to cease use of some equipment. We could also be required to pay royalties for the use of equipment. Technology disputes involving us or our suppliers or sub-suppliers could adversely affect our financial results and operations. We could be sued for patent infringement. We could be sued for patent infringement related to certain technologies used on our drillships. Transocean sued Maersk Contractors USA Inc. (“Maersk”) for infringing two of Transocean’s U.S. patents involving dual activity on drilling assemblies. Some of our drillships can utilize technology related to the subject of this patent dispute. In April 2011, a jury determined that Maersk had not established that the asserted patent claims were invalid, that Maersk had infringed those claims, and awarded Transocean $15 million for Maersk’s infringement. On June 30, 2011, the judge presiding over the case invalidated the jury award, entered judgment in Maersk’s favor, and determined as a matter of law that the asserted patent claims were invalid for obviousness, that they were invalid for having a defective patent application and that Maersk had not infringed. However, Transocean has appealed this judgment, and if they were to prevail upon the appeal, Transocean could choose to sue us or our customers for infringing its patents if we use, offer to sell, or sell related technology in the United States, and we could be forced to discontinue the use of the technology in question, pay royalties to Transocean, or make indemnity payments to our customers. Dual gradient drilling techniques may not result in the currently expected benefits and, as a result, adequate demand may not develop for these capabilities. The Pacific Khamsin, the Pacific Sharav and our seventh drillship will be upgraded to have dual gradient drilling capabilities. Dual gradient drilling is a technology that allows two different pressure gradients to be maintained in the well (one in the drilling riser and one in the well below the mudline) by a process of replacing mud from the drilling riser with a seawater-density fluid. Although dual gradient drilling technology was technically proven ten years ago, the Pacific Santa Ana will be the first rig to deploy this technology for commercial application. Dual gradient drilling may not result in expected savings in cost and time per well, higher flow rates and greater access to “undrillable” reserves and, as a result, adequate demand may not develop for these capabilities. In addition, the dual gradient drilling concept that will be deployed by the Pacific Santa Ana are disclosed in patents assigned to Chevron. A court could interpret our license with Chevron to use the technical information, data, and knowledge made available by Chevron for dual gradient drilling operations in all of our drilling units to require that our drilling contract with Chevron for the use of the Pacific Santa Ana remain in effect even after the license takes effect on February 1, 2014. In the event that dual gradient drilling does not result in expected benefits, demand does not develop for these capabilities or our license with Chevron is not effective, the Pacific Santa Ana, the Pacific Khamsin, the Pacific Sharav and our seventh drillship are optimized for providing single gradient drilling services. There may be limits to our ability to mobilize drillships between geographic areas, and the time and costs of such mobilizations may be material to our business. The offshore contract drilling market is generally a global market as drilling units may be mobilized from one area to another. However, the ability to mobilize drilling units can be impacted by several factors including, but not limited to, governmental regulation and customs practices, the significant costs to move a drilling unit, weather, political instability, civil unrest, military actions and the technical capability of the drilling units to operate in various environments. Additionally, while a drillship is being mobilized from one geographic market to another, we may not be paid by the customer for the time that the drillship is out of service. Also, we may mobilize a drillship to another geographic market without a customer contract, which will result in costs not reimbursable by future customers. Our drilling contracts may be terminated early in certain circumstances. Our contracts with customers may be terminated at the option of the customer upon payment of an early termination fee, which is typically a significant percentage of the dayrate or the standby rate under the drilling 24 Table of Contents contract for a specified period of time. Such payments may not, however, fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Our contracts also provide for termination by the customer without the payment of any termination fee, under various circumstances, typically including, but not limited to, our non-performance, as a result of downtime or impaired performance caused by equipment or operational issues, or sustained periods of downtime due to force majeure events. Many of these events are beyond our control. During periods of depressed market conditions, we are subject to an increased risk of our customers seeking to terminate their contracts, including through claims of non-performance. Our customers’ ability to perform their obligations under their drilling contracts with us may also be negatively impacted by continuing global economic uncertainty. If our customers terminate some of our contracts, and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, or if payments due under our contracts are suspended for an extended period of time or if a number of our contracts are renegotiated, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if any of our drilling contracts defaults, is terminated, and is not replaced in a timely manner with an acceptable contract under our Project Facilities Agreement, our obligations to repay outstanding indebtedness under the Project Facilities Agreement can be accelerated. The bonds issued in the 2012 Bond Offering contain a cross-default provision such that if the outstanding indebtedness under the Project Facilities Agreement is accelerated, any outstanding obligations under the 2012 Bond Offering can also be accelerated. We are a holding company and are dependent upon cash flow from subsidiaries to meet our obligations. If our operating subsidiaries experience sufficiently adverse changes in their financial position or results of operations, or we otherwise become unable to pay our debts as they become due and obtain further credit, we may become subject to Luxembourg insolvency proceedings. As we currently conduct our operations through, and most of our assets are owned by, our subsidiaries, our operating income and cash flow are generated by our subsidiaries. As a result, cash we obtain from our subsidiaries is the principal source of funds necessary to meet our obligations. Contractual provisions or laws, as well as our subsidiaries’ financial condition, operating requirements and debt requirements, may limit our ability to obtain cash from subsidiaries that we require to pay our expenses or meet our current or future debt service obligations. Applicable tax laws may also subject such payments to us by subsidiaries to further taxation. The inability to transfer cash from our subsidiaries may mean that, even though we may have sufficient resources on a consolidated basis to meet our obligations, we may not be permitted to make the necessary transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our debt and other obligations. Likewise, we may not be able to make necessary transfers from our subsidiaries in order to provide funds for the payment of our obligations, for which we are or may become responsible under the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness. The terms of certain of the agreements governing our indebtedness described under Item 5, “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Description of Indebtedness” also place restrictions on our cash balance and require us to maintain reserves of cash which could inhibit our ability to meet our obligations. If our operating subsidiaries experience sufficiently adverse changes in their financial position or results of operations, or we otherwise become unable to pay our debts as they become due and obtain further credit, we may be in a state of cessation of payments (cessation de paiements) and lose our commercial creditworthiness (ébranlement de credit), which could result in the commencement of insolvency proceedings in Luxembourg. Such proceedings would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows and could have a significant negative impact on the market price of our common shares. The loss of some of our key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business. Our future operational performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of our management as well as marketing, sales and operations personnel. The loss of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, 25 Table of Contents sales and operations personnel. We may experience intense competition for personnel, and we may not be able to retain key employees or be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. Our business involves numerous operating hazards, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses. Our operations are subject to the usual hazards inherent in the drilling and operation of oil and natural gas wells, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, craterings, fires, explosions and pollution. The occurrence of any of these events could result in the suspension of our drilling or production operations, claims by the operator, severe damage to, or destruction of, the property and equipment involved, injury or death to drilling unit personnel and environmental damage. Our operations could be suspended as a result of these hazards whether the fault is ours or that of a third party. In certain circumstances, governmental authorities may suspend drilling operations as a result of these hazards, and our customers may cancel or terminate their contracts. We may also be subject to personal injury and other claims of drilling unit personnel as a result of our drilling operations. Our operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal operating conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services and personnel shortages. In addition, our operations will be subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. Severe weather could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our drilling units could be damaged by high winds, turbulent seas or unstable sea bottom conditions which could potentially cause us to curtail operations for significant periods of time until such damages are repaired. Damage to the environment could result from our operations, particularly through oil spillage or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to property, environmental, natural resource and other damage claims by oil and natural gas companies, other businesses operating offshore and in coastal areas, environmental conservation groups, governmental entities and other third parties. Insurance policies and contractual rights to indemnity may not adequately cover losses, and we may not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. Moreover, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. As a result of the number of catastrophic events in the offshore drilling industry in recent years, such as hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico and the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig incident, insurance underwriters have increased insurance premiums and increased restrictions on coverage. In particular, hurricane losses in recent years have impacted named windstorm insurance coverage, rates and availability for Gulf of Mexico area exposures. The Project Facilities Agreement requires us to carry named windstorm insurance in the event that two or more of our drillships operate in the Gulf of Mexico or other areas prone to the occurrence of named windstorms. Currently, we only have one drillship, the Pacific Santa Ana, contracted to operate in the Gulf of Mexico and are therefore presently not required to carry named windstorm insurance. If we were required to obtain named windstorm insurance in the future, our costs for obtaining insurance coverage could significantly increase. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on commercially reasonable terms. Losses caused by the occurrence of a significant event against which we are not fully insured, or caused by a number of lesser events against which we are insured but are subject to substantial deductibles, aggregate limits and/or self-insured amounts, could materially increase our costs and impair our profitability and financial condition. Our policy limits for property, casualty, liability and business interruption insurance, including coverage for severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, may not be adequate should a catastrophic event occur related to our property, plant or equipment, or our insurers may not have adequate financial resources to sufficiently or fully pay related claims or damages. When any of our coverage expires, adequate replacement coverage may not be available, offered at reasonable prices or offered by insurers with sufficient financial resources. 26 Table of Contents Our customers may be unable or unwilling to indemnify us. Consistent with standard industry practice, our customers generally assume, and indemnify us against, well control and subsurface risks under our dayrate contracts. These risks are associated with the loss of control of a well, such as blowout or cratering, the cost to regain control or redrill the well and associated pollution. However, our indemnification may not cover all damages, claims or losses to us or third parties, and the customer may not have sufficient resources to cover their indemnification obligations or the customer may contest their obligation to indemnify us. Also, in the interest of maintaining good relations with our key customers, we may choose not to assert certain indemnification claims. In addition, from time to time, we may be unable to negotiate contracts containing indemnity provisions that obligate our customers to indemnify us for such damages and risks. Our financial condition may be adversely affected if we fail to successfully integrate acquired assets or businesses we acquire, or are unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms. We believe that acquisition opportunities may arise from time to time, and any such acquisition could be significant. At any given time, discussions with one or more potential sellers may be at different stages. However, any such discussions may not result in the consummation of an acquisition transaction, and we may not be able to identify or complete any acquisitions. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading price of our common shares. Any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including: • the risk of using management time and resources to pursue acquisitions that are not successfully completed; • the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations; • the risk of failing to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and timely; and • the risk of diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in integrating any acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our potential purchase of existing vessels carries risks associated with the quality of those vessels. In the future, we may acquire existing vessels as a way of renewing and expanding our fleet. Unlike newbuilds, existing vessels typically do not carry warranties with respect to their condition. While we generally inspect any existing vessel prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of its condition as we would possess if the vessel had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be more substantial than for vessels that we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our profits and reduce our liquidity. We may enter into short-term drilling contracts, which may cause us to experience reduced profitability if customers reduce activity levels, terminate or seek to renegotiate drilling contracts, or if market conditions dictate that we enter into contracts that provide for payment based on a footage or turnkey basis, rather than on a dayrate basis. Many drilling contracts are short-term, and oil and natural gas companies tend to reduce activity levels quickly in response to declining oil and natural gas prices. We may enter into short-term drilling contracts, which may adversely affect our business during a decline in market conditions if customers reduce their levels of operations. 27 Table of Contents During depressed market conditions, a customer may no longer need a unit that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable unit at a lower dayrate. As a result, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. In addition, our customers may have the right to terminate, or may seek to renegotiate, existing contracts if we experience downtime, operational problems above the contractual limit or safety-related issues, if the drilling unit is a total loss, if the drilling unit is not delivered to the customer within the period specified in the contract or in other specified circumstances, which include events beyond the control of either party. We may enter into contracts in the future that include terms allowing customers to terminate those contracts without cause, with little or no prior notice and without penalty or early termination payments. In addition, we could be required to pay penalties, which could be material, if those contracts are terminated due to downtime, operational problems or failure to deliver. In addition, we may enter into contracts in the future that may be cancellable at the option of the customer upon payment of a penalty, which may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Early termination of a contract may result in a drilling unit being idle for an extended period of time. The likelihood that a customer may seek to terminate a contract is increased during periods of market weakness. Currently, our drilling contracts are dayrate contracts, where we charge a fixed rate per day regardless of the number of days needed to drill the well. While we plan to continue to perform services on a dayrate basis, market conditions may dictate that we enter into contracts that provide for payment based on a footage basis, where we are paid a fixed amount for each foot drilled regardless of the time required or the problems encountered in drilling the well, or enter into turnkey contracts, whereby we agree to drill a well to a specific depth for a fixed price and bear some of the well equipment costs. These types of contracts are more risky than a dayrate contract as we would be subject to downhole geologic conditions in the well that cannot always be accurately determined and subject us to greater risks associated with equipment and downhole tool failures. Unfavorable downhole geologic conditions and equipment and downhole tool failures may result in significant cost increases or may result in a decision to abandon a well project which would result in us not being able to invoice revenues for providing services. Any such termination or renegotiation of contracts and unfavorable cost increases or loss of revenue could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may suffer losses as a result of foreign currency fluctuations. A significant portion of the contract revenues of our foreign operations will be paid in U.S. Dollars; however, some payments are made in foreign currencies. As a result, we are exposed to currency fluctuations and exchange rate risks as a result of our foreign operations. To minimize the financial impact of these risks when we are paid in foreign currency, we attempt to match the currency of operating costs with the currency of contract revenue. If we are unable to substantially match the timing and amounts of these payments, any increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the value of applicable foreign currencies could adversely affect our operating results when translated into U.S. Dollars. We are exposed to the credit risks of our customers, and nonpayment by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers and certain other third parties could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If any of our customers or other parties default on their obligations to us, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Furthermore, some of our customers and other parties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. 28 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks, piracy, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of our business. Terrorist attacks, piracy and the current conflicts in Egypt and Libya and other current and future conflicts, may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, ability to raise capital and future growth. Continuing hostilities in the Middle East may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States, or elsewhere, which may contribute to further economic instability and disruption of oil production and distribution, which could result in reduced demand for our services. In addition, oil facilities, shipyards, vessels, pipelines and oil and natural gas fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks and our vessels could be targets of pirates or hijackers. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport oil and natural gas to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war, piracy or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the production of oil could entitle our customers to terminate our drilling contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder are governed by Luxembourg law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under other jurisdictions, including the United States, and shareholder rights under Luxembourg law may not be as clearly established as shareholder rights under the laws of other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association, as amended from time to time (the “Articles”), and by the laws governing companies incorporated in Luxembourg. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors (the “Board of Directors”) under Luxembourg law may not be as clearly established as shareholder rights under the laws of other jurisdictions. We anticipate that all of our shareholder meetings will take place in Luxembourg. In addition, the rights of shareholders as they relate to, for example, the exercise of shareholder rights, are governed by Luxembourg law and our Articles and differ from the rights of shareholders under other jurisdictions, including the United States. The holders of our common shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the Board of Directors than if we were incorporated in the United States. Because we are incorporated under the laws of Luxembourg, you may face difficulty protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through other international courts, including the United States, may be limited. We are incorporated under the laws of Luxembourg, and the majority of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within certain jurisdictions, including the United States, in a way that will permit a court in such country to have jurisdiction over us, or to enforce judgments against them obtained in the U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal and state securities laws. Please read Item 10, “Enforceability of Civil Liabilities.” We are controlled by a single shareholder, which could result in potential conflicts of interest with our public shareholders. An entity controlled by the Quantum Pacific Group is a beneficial owner of approximately 69.2% of our outstanding common shares and is in a position to control actions that require the consent of our shareholders, 29 Table of Contents including the election of directors, amendment of our Articles and any merger or sale of substantially all of our assets. In addition, three members of our Board of Directors are also employees of Quantum Pacific Advisory Limited, an affiliate of the Quantum Pacific Group, including Mr. Ron Moskovitz, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, who is also the Chief Executive Officer of Quantum Pacific Advisory Limited. We also have certain contractual arrangements with the Quantum Pacific Group. See Item 7, “Related Party Transactions.” There are no restrictions on the ability of the Quantum Pacific Group to compete with us. In addition, potential conflicts of interest exist or could arise in the future for our directors who are also officers of Quantum Pacific Advisory Limited with respect to a number of areas relating to the past and ongoing relationships of the Quantum Pacific Group and us. Although the affected directors may abstain from voting on matters in which our interests and those of the Quantum Pacific Group are in conflict, the presence of potential or actual conflicts could affect the process or outcome of the deliberations of our Board of Directors and may have an adverse effect on our public shareholders. Our controlling shareholder, Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited, has pledged a significant portion of its shares in our company to secure a loan facility. A default under this loan facility could result in another person acquiring a significant voting interest in the Company and could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s shares. Our controlling shareholder, Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited, has pledged a significant portion of its shares in the Company to secure a loan facility. This loan facility requires Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited to pledge cash collateral if the market value of the pledged shares falls below a certain threshold. As of the date of this annual report, Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited has pledged approximately 30% of our outstanding common shares to secure the loan facility. Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited may from time to time in the future obtain additional loans that are secured by a pledge of additional equity interests in the Company. A number of factors could cause our share price to decline, including those risks described in this section, “Risk Factors”, and a decline in the market value of our common shares could trigger margin calls for these loan facilities. Failure or delay by Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited to promptly meet any margin call or other events of default under these financing arrangements could result in the sale or other disposition of some or all of the pledged shares, which could result in one or more persons other than Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited acquiring the pledged shares and thereby acquiring a significant voting interest in the Company. Furthermore, due to Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited’s significant interest in the Company, the disposition of a portion or all of its pledged shares by the lender under the loan facility or a subsequent holder of the pledged shares may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our shares. See “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Common Shares—Sales of our common shares in the public market could lower our share price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute your ownership in us.” Sales of our common shares in the public market could lower our share price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute your ownership in us. We may sell additional common shares in subsequent public offerings. We may also issue additional common shares or convertible securities. As of March 20, 2012, we have 216,900,000 issued and outstanding common shares. Quantum Pacific Group owns 150,000,000 shares, or approximately 69.2% of our total outstanding common shares. On November 16, 2011, we entered into a registration rights agreement with Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited which will require us to effect the registration of its common shares in certain circumstances. In April 2011, we issued 60,000,000 common shares in a private offering to international and U.S. investors in April 2011 (the “2011 Private Placement”). Subsequent to the 2011 Private Placement, our shares were traded on the Norwegian OTC List. 30 Table of Contents In November 2011, we completed an initial public offering of 6,000,000 common shares. In December 2011, the underwriters purchased an additional 900,000 common shares pursuant to the full exercise of an over-allotment option. The shares sold in our initial public offering and pursuant to the underwriters’ over-allotment option are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”). As of March 20, 2012, approximately 55,000,000 common shares have migrated from the Norwegian OTC List to the NYSE and are now freely trading in the U.S. public market. As soon as practicable after this annual report, we intend to file a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on Form S-8 providing for the registration of 7,200,000 common shares issued or reserved for issuance under our stock incentive plan. Subject to the satisfaction of vesting conditions, common shares registered under this registration statement on Form S-8 will be available for resale immediately in the public market without restriction. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common shares or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common shares will have on the market price of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares (including any common shares registered pursuant to the registration rights agreement with Quantum Pacific (Gibraltar) Limited, any shares transferred by shareholders on the Norwegian OTC to the NYSE, any common shares registered on Form S-8, any shares issued in connection with an acquisition or any other sales of common shares in the public market), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common shares. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired and investors’ views of us could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, beginning with our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our common shares could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with Section 404 requires us to be able to prepare timely and accurate financial statements. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, may cause our operations to suffer, and we may be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our auditors as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, we cannot be certain that these measures would ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Even if we were to conclude, and our auditors were to concur, that our internal control over financial reporting provided reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. This, in turn, could have an adverse impact on trading prices for our common shares, and could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets. 31 Table of Contents We are a “foreign private issuer” and “controlled company” under the NYSE rules, and as such we are entitled to exemption from certain NYSE corporate governance standards, and you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. We are a “foreign private issuer” under the securities laws of the United States and the rules of the NYSE. Under the NYSE rules, a “foreign private issuer” is subject to less stringent corporate governance requirements than a domestic issuer. Subject to certain exceptions, the rules of the NYSE permit a “foreign private issuer” to follow its home country practice in lieu of the listing requirements of the NYSE. In addition, Quantum Pacific Group controls a majority of our outstanding common shares. As a result, we are considered a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another company or group is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the nominating committee be composed entirely of independent directors and have a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (3) the requirement that the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors and have a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (4) the requirement of an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees. As permitted by these exemptions, as well as by our bylaws and the laws of Luxembourg, we currently have a board of directors with a majority of non-independent directors, an audit committee comprised solely of three independent directors and a compensation committee with one or more non-independent directors serving as committee members. As a result, non-independent directors, may, among other things, fix the compensation of our management, make common share and option awards and resolve governance issues regarding our company. Accordingly, in the future you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. As a “foreign private issuer,” we are exempt from a number of rules under the U.S. securities laws and are permitted to file less information with the SEC than other U.S. public companies. This may limit the information available to holders of our common shares. As a “foreign private issuer,” we are not subject to all of the disclosure requirements applicable to companies organized within the United States. For example, we are exempt from certain rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) that regulate disclosure obligations and procedural requirements related to the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations applicable to a security registered under the Exchange Act. In addition, our officers and directors are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and related rules with respect to their purchases and sales of our securities. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as other U.S. public companies. Accordingly, there may be less information concerning our company publicly available than there is for other U.S. public companies. Tax Risks Changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns could adversely affect our financial results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, treaties and regulations, both in the United States and internationally. Tax laws, treaties and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we operate or are resident. Our income tax expense is based upon the interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations, or in the interpretation thereof, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. If any country successfully challenges our income tax filings based on our structure, or if we otherwise lose a material tax dispute, our effective tax rate on worldwide earnings could increase substantially and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents We may not be able to make distributions without subjecting you to Luxembourg withholding tax. If we are not successful in our efforts to make distributions, if any, through a withholding tax free reduction of share capital or share premium (the absence of withholding on such distributions is subject to certain requirements), then any dividends paid by us will generally be subject to a Luxembourg withholding tax at a rate of 15% (17.65% if the dividend tax is not charged to the shareholder) (subject to the reductions/exceptions discussed under Item 10 “Taxation—Material Luxembourg Tax Considerations for Holders of Common Shares—Exemption from Luxembourg Withholding Tax”). The withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the Luxembourg tax authorities. Under current Luxembourg tax law, a reduction of share capital or share premium is not subject to Luxembourg withholding tax provided that certain conditions are met, including, for example, the condition that we do not have distributable reserves or profits. However, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve such a reduction in share capital or share premium, that we will be able to meet the other legal requirements for a reduction in share capital or share premium, or that Luxembourg tax withholding rules will not be changed in the future. In addition, over the long term, the amount of share capital and share premium available for us to use for capital reductions will be limited. If we are unable to make a distribution through a withholding tax free reduction in share capital or share premium, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting you to Luxembourg withholding taxes. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets for any taxable year produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than certain rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business, but does not include income derived from the performance of services. U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC, and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their interests in the PFIC. We believe that we will not be a PFIC for the current taxable year or for any future taxable year. Based on our operations described herein, all or a substantial portion of our income from offshore contract drilling services should be treated as services income and not as passive income, and thus all or a substantial portion of the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income should not constitute passive assets, for purposes of determining whether we are a PFIC. However, this involves a facts and circumstances analysis and it is possible that the IRS would not agree with this conclusion. See Item 10, “Taxation—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations for Holders of Common Shares—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” 