ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all our potential risks or uncertainties. Because of these and other factors, past performance should not be considered an indication of future performance. The Overall Economic Climate Could Result in Decreased Demand for Our Products and Services Our products typically represent substantial capital commitments by customers and involve a potentially long sales cycle. As a result, our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on customer purchasing decisions. Although we continued to see companies commit to capital outlays in 2011, some current or prospective customers are still reviewing the allocation of their capital spending budgets to communication software, services and systems, which has resulted, and may continue to result, in our current or prospective customers delaying and/or reducing their capital spending related to information systems. Some of the factors that could influence the levels of spending by our current or prospective customers include availability of credit, labor and healthcare costs, consumer confidence and other factors affecting spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and operating results. 10 Our Quarterly Operating Results Have Varied Significantly Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and depend on a number of factors affecting us or our industry, including many that are beyond our control. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. In addition, our operating results in a future quarter or quarters may fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors and, as a result, the price of our common stock may fluctuate. Our quarterly revenues and operating results depend on many factors, including the type of deployment (premise-based versus cloud-based), the type of license, the size, quantity and timing of orders received for our products during each quarter, the delivery of the related software or hardware and our expectations regarding collection. Because we do not know if or when our partners and current or potential customers will place orders and finalize license agreements, we cannot accurately forecast our licensing activity, our revenues and our operating results for future quarters. We have generally experienced a lengthy initial sales cycle, which can last six to nine months and sometimes longer. The lengthy sales cycle is one of the factors that has caused, and may in the future continue to cause, our product revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter which may in turn affect the market price of our common stock. Because of the unique characteristics of our products and our prospective customers’ internal evaluation processes, decisions to license our products often require significant time and executive-level decision making. As a result, sales cycles for customer orders vary substantially from customer to customer. The length of the sales cycle for customer orders depends on a number of other factors over which we have little or no control, including: · a customer’s budgetary constraints; · the timing of a customer’s budget cycle; · concerns by customers about the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; and · downturns in general economic conditions, including reductions in demand for contact center services. Our limited number of products, changes in pricing policies, the timing of development completion, and announcement and sale of new or upgraded versions of our products are some of the additional factors that could cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. We recognize revenues over different periods depending on the satisfaction of the requirements of relevant accounting literature, including Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 985, Software and Topic 605, Revenue Recognition. In addition, if more customers choose our cloud-based offering, which revenues are deferred and recognized ratably over the expected life of the customer, the timing of our revenue recognition could be extended. A large portion of our operating expenses, including salaries and rent, is fixed and difficult to reduce or modify in a short time period. As a result, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected if revenues do not meet our expectations. We Have Made Acquisitions and May Pursue Acquisitions That by Their Nature Present Risks and That May Not be Successful We have acquired companies and in the future we may pursue acquisitions to strengthen our distribution channel, diversify our product offerings and customer base or for other strategic purposes. We cannot assure you that our recent or future acquisitions will be successful. The following are some of the risks associated with acquisitions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations: · We cannot assure you that any acquired businesses will achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow. · We may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, particularly if we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited or no current expertise, or with a corporate culture different from our own. If we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully, we could incur substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems. · Acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls and procedures. · We may finance future acquisitions by issuing common stock for some or all of the purchase price. This could dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders. We may also incur debt or be required to recognize expense related to intangible assets recorded in future acquisitions. · We may be competing with other firms, many of which have greater financial and other resources, to acquire attractive companies, making it more difficult to acquire suitable companies on acceptable terms. · We may not generate sufficient cash from operations and our growth could be limited unless we are able to obtain capital through additional debt or equity financings. These financings may not be available as required for acquisitions or other needs, and even if financing is available, it may not be on terms that are favorable to us or sufficient for our needs. In addition, if we complete an equity financing, the issuance of shares of our common stock would dilute your ownership interest in our company. 11 Our Future Business Prospects Depend in Part on Our Ability to Maintain and Improve Our Current Products and Develop New Products We believe that our future business prospects depend in large part on our ability to maintain and improve our current software applications and to develop new software applications on a timely basis. Our software applications will have to continue to achieve market acceptance, maintain technological competitiveness and meet an expanding range of customer requirements. As a result of the complexities inherent in our applications, major new applications and application enhancements require long development and testing periods. We may not be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost effective basis, application enhancements or new software applications that respond to technological change, evolving industry standards or customer requirements. We may also experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of application enhancements, and our new applications and application enhancements may not achieve market acceptance. Significant delays in the general availability of new releases of our software applications or significant problems in the installation or implementation of new releases of our applications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our Products Could Have Defects for Which We Are Potentially Liable and Which Could Result in Loss of Revenue, Increased Costs, Loss of Our Credibility, Harm Our Reputation or Delay in Acceptance of Our Products in the Market Our products, including components supplied by others, may contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite internal product testing, we have in the past discovered software errors in some of our products after their introduction. Errors in new products or releases could be found after commencement of commercial shipments, and this could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts, or the loss of credibility with current or future customers. This could result in a loss of revenue or delay in market acceptance of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability and some contract claims. However, not all of these agreements contain these types of provisions and, where present, these provisions vary as to their terms and may not be effective under the laws of some jurisdictions. A product liability, warranty, or other claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our software runs on a Windows 2000 or Windows 2003 server and for telephone call processing uses voice processing boards or third-party VoIP media processing software such as Intel HMP software. Our server software also operates in a complex network environment with database servers, e-mail servers and other third party systems. Because of this complexity, our software may be more prone to performance interruptions for our customers than traditional hardware-based products. Performance interruptions at our customer sites, many of which currently do not have back-up systems, could affect demand for our products or give rise to claims against us. If Our Customers Do Not Perceive Our Products or Related Services to Be Effective or of High Quality, Our Brand and Name Recognition Will Suffer We believe that establishing and maintaining brand and name recognition is critical for attracting, retaining and expanding customers in our target markets. We also believe that the importance of reputation and name recognition will increase as competition in our market increases. Promotion and enhancement of our name will depend on the effectiveness of our marketing and advertising efforts and on our success in providing high-quality products and related services, including installation, training and maintenance, neither of which can be assured. If our customers do not perceive our products or related services to be effective or of high quality, our brand and name recognition would suffer which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We Face Competitive Pressures, Which May Adversely Effect Us The market for our software applications is highly competitive and, because there are relatively low barriers to entry in the software market, we expect competitive pressures to continue to be a risk to our ongoing success in the market. In addition, because our industry is evolving and characterized by rapid technological change, it is difficult for us to predict whether, when and by whom new competing technologies or new competitors may be introduced into our markets. Currently, our competition comes from several different market segments, including computer telephony platform developers, computer telephony applications software developers and telecommunications equipment vendors. Additionally, alternative deployment strategies, such as software as a service, are offered by certain companies. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors in these segments, or in new segments with new types of competitors. In addition, increased competition or other competitive pressures may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources, greater name recognition and a larger installed base of customers than we do. Competitors may be able to respond to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements more effectively than we can, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products than we can. In addition, for a number of our larger competitors, the product segment in which they currently compete with us is a small portion of their overall offering. These competitors might be willing and able to dramatically cut prices in our segment in order to protect or grow other segments that are more important to their overall business. Current and potential competitors have established, and may in the future establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including mergers or acquisitions, to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our current or prospective customers. If these competitors were to acquire significantly increased market share, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our Cloud-Based Applications Present Execution and Competitive Risks We are devoting significant resources to extend our cloud-based alternative to our traditional, perpetually licensed premise-based software. Certain competitors offer alternative cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. While we believe our expertise, investments in infrastructure, and the breadth of our cloud-based services provides us with a solid foundation to compete, it is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to be successful. In addition to certain software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. These costs may reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. Whether we are successful in this new business model depends on our execution in a number of areas, including: · continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic, 12 · improving the performance of our cloud-based services, and · continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud-based platforms to partners. Our Inability to Successfully Manage our Increasingly Complex Supplier and Other Third-Party Relationships Could Adversely Affect Us As the complexity of our product technology and our supplier and other third-party relationships have increased, the management of those relationships and the negotiation of contractual terms sufficient to protect our rights and limit our potential liabilities have become more complicated, and we expect this trend to continue in the future. In addition, because we offer a whole product solution, this has added complexity to our supplier relationships. We license from third parties technology that is embedded in our products. Some of these third parties that license technology to us are our competitors, or could become competitive with us in the future. Certain license agreements permit either party to terminate all or a portion of the license without cause at any time. Further, some of the license agreements provide that upon acquisition of us by certain other third parties, we would have to pay a significant fee to continue the license. As a result, our inability to successfully manage these relationships or negotiate sufficient contractual terms could have a material adverse effect on us. For certain of our orders, we supply hardware to support the implementation of our software. We are dependent on third parties for the supply of hardware components to our customers. If these hardware distributors experience financial, operational or quality assurance difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships, we may be required to locate alternative hardware sources. We are also subject to the following risks related to our hardware distribution system: · cancellations of orders due to unavailability of hardware; · increased hardware prices, which may reduce our gross profit or make our products less price competitive; and · additional development expense to modify our products to work with new hardware configurations. We cannot assure you that we would be able to locate alternative technology or hardware sources in a timely manner, on terms favorable to us, or at all. Even if we and/or our distributors are successful in locating alternative sources of supply, alternative suppliers could increase prices significantly. In addition, alternative technology or hardware components may malfunction or interact with existing components in unexpected ways. The use of new suppliers and the modification of our products to function with new systems would require testing and may require further modifications which may result in additional expense; diversion of management attention and other resources; inability to fulfill customer orders or delay in fulfillment; reduction in quality and reliability; customer dissatisfaction; and other adverse effects on our reputation, business and operating results. Existing and New Reseller Partners are Critical to Continued Growth Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend in part on our success in maintaining productive relationships with our existing and future reseller partners and in recruiting and training additional reseller partners. We rely primarily on these partners to market and support our products and plan on continuing to rely heavily on such partners in the future. We continue to expand our partner and distribution networks and may be unable to attract additional partners with both voice and data expertise or appropriate partners that will be able to market our products effectively and that will be qualified to provide timely and cost-effective customer support and service. We generally do not have long-term or exclusive agreements with our partners, and the loss of specific larger partners or a significant number of partners could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, due to the current economic conditions, the risk of failure of specific partners or a significant number of partners is increased, which failure could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If We Are Unable to Maintain the Compatibility of Our Software With Certain Other Products and Technologies, Our Future Business Would be Adversely Affected Our software must integrate with software and hardware solutions provided by a number of our existing and potential competitors. For example, our products must integrate with phone switches made by the telephone switch vendors and computer telephony software applications offered by other software providers. These competitors or their business partners could alter their products so that our software no longer integrates well with them, or they could delay or deny our access to software releases that allow us to timely adapt our software to integrate with their products. If we cannot adapt our software to changes in necessary technology, it may significantly impair our ability to compete effectively, particularly if our software must integrate with the software and hardware solutions of our competitors. Our Products Require Wide Area Networks, and We May be Unable to Sell Our Products Where Networks Do Not Perform Adequately Our products also depend on the reliable performance of the wide area networks of businesses and organizations, including those that employ remote and mobile workers. If enterprise customers experience inadequate performance with their wide area networks, whether due to outages, component failures, or otherwise, our product performance would be adversely affected. As a result, when these types of problems occur with these networks, our enterprise customers may not be able to immediately identify the source of the problem, and may conclude that the problem is related to our products. This could harm our relationships with our current enterprise customers and make it more difficult to attract new enterprise customers, which could negatively affect our business. 13 We May Not Be Able to Adequately Protect Our Proprietary Rights, Which Could Allow Third Parties to Copy or Otherwise Obtain and Use Our Technology Without Authorization We regard our software products as proprietary. In an effort to protect our proprietary rights, we rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as patents, licensing and other agreements with consultants, suppliers, partners and customers, and employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements. These laws and agreements provide only limited protection of our proprietary rights. It may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization. A third party could also develop similar technology independently. In addition, the laws of some countries in which we license our products do not protect our software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Unauthorized copying, use or reverse engineering of our products could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Certain Provisions in Our License Agreements May Expose Us to Liabilities for Breaches That Are Not Limited in Amount By the Terms of the Contract Certain contract provisions, principally confidentiality and indemnification obligations in certain of our license agreements, could expose us to risks of loss that, in some cases, are not limited by contract to a specified maximum amount. If we fail to perform to the standards required by these contracts, we could be subject to additional liability and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Infringement Claims Could Adversely Affect Us Third parties have claimed and may in the future claim that our technology infringes their proprietary rights. As the number of software products in our target markets increases and the functionality of these products overlap, we believe that software developers may face additional infringement claims. Infringement claims, even if without merit, can be time consuming and expensive to defend. A third party asserting infringement claims against us or our customers with respect to our current or future products may require us to enter into costly royalty arrangements or litigation, or otherwise materially adversely affect us. We Depend on Key Personnel and Will Need to Retain and Recruit Skilled Personnel, for Which Competition Is Intense, to Conduct and Grow Our Business Effectively Our success depends in large part on the continued service of our key personnel, particularly Dr. Donald E. Brown, our Chief Executive Officer and largest shareholder. The loss of the services of Dr. Brown or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, train, assimilate and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for persons with skills in the software industry is intense, particularly for those with relevant technical and/or sales experience. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we can attract, train, assimilate or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. Our International Operations Involve Financial and Operational Risks Which May Adversely Affect Our Business and Operating Results Our international operations require significant management attention and financial resources to establish and operate, including hiring appropriate personnel and recruiting effective international partners. Non-North American revenues accounted for 29%, 25% and 27% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We intend to continue to emphasize our international operations and we may enter additional international markets. Revenues from international operations may be inadequate to cover the expenses of those operations. Risks inherent in our international business activities may include the following: · economic and political instability; · unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements and laws; · tariffs and other trade barriers; · timing, cost and potential difficulty of adapting our software products to the local language in those foreign countries that do not use the English alphabet, such as Japan, Korea and China; · lack of acceptance of our products in foreign countries; · longer sales cycles and accounts receivable payment cycles; · potentially adverse tax consequences; 14 · restrictions on the repatriation of funds; · acts of terrorism; and · increased government regulations related to increasing or reducing business activity in various countries. Our international revenues are generally denominated in United States dollars; however, as a result of our acquisition of several partners outside of the United States, we now have revenues denominated in several foreign currencies. Our international expenses are generally denominated in local foreign currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the United States dollar and other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and particularly, on our operating margins and net income. We maintain a currency hedging program to help mitigate future effects of fluctuations in the foreign exchange rates on cash and receivables. These hedging techniques may not be successful. Exchange rate fluctuations could also make our products more expensive than competitive products not subject to these fluctuations, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability in international markets. Malicious Human Actions and/or Catastrophic Events May Disrupt Our Operations and Harm Our Operating Results Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, security breaches, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the United States and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Likewise, events such as widespread blackouts could have similar negative impacts. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. A disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major earthquake, weather event, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services or performing other mission-critical functions. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and our operating results. Changes in Corporate Taxes or Adverse Outcomes Resulting from Examination of Our Income Tax Returns Could Adversely Affect Our Results Our provision for income taxes could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by expiration of or lapses in the research and development tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments including the post-acquisition integration of purchased intangible assets from certain acquisitions into our intercompany research and development cost sharing arrangement; by tax effects of nondeductible stock option expense; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; or by changes in tax laws, regulations and accounting principles, including accounting for uncertain tax positions or interpretations thereof. If amounts included in tax returns are reduced or disallowed, it would reduce our loss carryforwards and tax credits and the amount of expected future non-cash income tax expense used by management and investors. Judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in FASB ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes (“FASB ASC 740”). In addition, FASB ASC 740 applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain tax jurisdictions is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We have also recorded state and local income tax incentives as a reduction of certain operating expenses and if those incentives were to be disallowed we may be required to record additional expense. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We May Not Achieve the Expected Benefits of the Reorganization We believe our Reorganization into a holding company will provide us with benefits in the future. These expected benefits may not be achieved if market conditions or other circumstances prevent us from taking advantage of the strategic, business and financing flexibility that the Reorganization affords us. As a result, we may have incurred the costs of the Reorganization without realizing the possible benefits. In addition, the holding company structure may not be successful in insulating the liabilities of our subsidiaries from each other or from Interactive Intelligence. For example, creditors and/or other third parties may challenge the impact of the holding company structure and any subsequent transfers of assets on our relationship with them. As a Holding Company, Interactive Intelligence Depends in Large Part on Dividends from Its Operating Subsidiaries to Satisfy Its Obligations Interactive Intelligence is a holding company with no business operations of its own. Its only significant assets are the outstanding capital stock of its subsidiaries. As a result, it relies on funds from its current subsidiaries and any subsidiaries that it may form in the future to meet its obligations. Although We Expect that the Distribution of Latitude Stock and the Transfer of Assets to Newly Created Subsidiaries of Interactive Intelligence by ININ Inc. Will Not Result in Any Immediate Federal Income Tax Liability to Interactive Intelligence or ININ Inc., the Internal Revenue Service May Disagree After the consummation of the Reorganization, ININ Inc. distributed the stock of Latitude to Interactive Intelligence, transferred certain assets to newly created subsidiaries and spun off one of these newly created subsidiaries to Interactive Intelligence. We expect that these actions will not result in any immediate federal income tax liability to Interactive Intelligence or ININ Inc. However, neither Interactive Intelligence nor ININ Inc. has requested nor will request a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service as to the tax consequences of these actions. As a result, the Internal Revenue Service could take the position that these actions do not constitute tax-free transactions. In such case, ININ Inc. may be treated as having instead made a taxable distribution(s), which could result in material tax liability to Interactive Intelligence or ININ Inc. In addition, Interactive Intelligence may incur state income tax as a result of these actions, but we do not believe that these taxes will be material. 15 We Are Exposed to Fluctuations in the Market Value of Our Money Market Funds and Investments. The Financial Pressure on Investment Institutions Managing Our Investments or the Failure of Such Entities May Lead to Restrictions on Access to Our Investments Which Could Negatively Impact Our Balance of Cash and Cash Equivalents, thus Affecting Our Overall Financial Condition We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings and maturities. These securities are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value. This portfolio includes money market funds, notes, bonds and commercial paper of various issuers. If the debt of these issuers is downgraded, the carrying value of these investments could be impaired. In addition, we could also face default risk from some of these issuers, which could cause the carrying value to be impaired. Financial institutions have been under significant pressure over the past several quarters. Should one or more of the financial institutions managing our invested funds experience increased financial pressure resulting in bankruptcy, or the threat of bankruptcy, access to our funds may be restricted for a period of time and may also result in losses on those funds. Our cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. We maintain the cash and cash equivalents with reputable major financial institutions. Deposits with these banks exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. While we monitor daily the cash balances in the operating accounts and adjust the balances as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if one or more of the financial institutions with which we deposit fails or is subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets. To date we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our invested cash or cash equivalents; however, we can provide no assurance that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial and credit markets. Our Stock Price Has Been and Could Continue to Be Highly Volatile Our stock price has been and could continue to be highly volatile due to a number of factors, including: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · announcements by us, our competitors or our customers; · changes in financial estimates of securities analysts or investors regarding us, our industry or our competitors; · technological innovations by others; · the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies or of our competitors; · the availability for future sale, or sales, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market; and · general market or economic conditions. This risk may be heightened because our industry is continually evolving, characterized by rapid technological change, and is susceptible to the introduction of new competing technologies or competitors. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in the recent past that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many technology companies, including us. These price and volume fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has sometimes been instituted against that company. This type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes Made to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and Legislative Changes May Impact Our Business Revisions to generally accepted accounting principles will require us to review our accounting and financial reporting procedures in order to ensure continued compliance with required policies. From time to time, such changes may have a short-term impact on our reporting, and these changes may impact market perception of our financial condition. In addition, legislative changes, and the perception these changes create, can have a material adverse effect on our business. 16 Failure to Maintain Effective Internal Controls Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Operating Results and Stock Price If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors, and we are required to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement or an investigation by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our common stock. Anti-Takeover Provisions in Our Organizational Documents and Indiana Law Make Any Change in Control of Us More Difficult, May Discourage Bids at a Premium over the Market Price and May Adversely Affect the Market Price of Our Stock Our Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, may discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: · the division of our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; · removal of directors only for cause and only upon a 66 2/3% shareholder vote; · prohibiting shareholders from calling a special meeting of shareholders; · the ability to issue additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock without shareholders’ approval; and · advance notice requirements for raising business or making nominations at shareholders’ meetings. The Indiana Business Corporation Law (“IBCL”) contains business combination provisions that, in general, prohibit for five years any business combination with a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our common stock unless the holder’s acquisition of the stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. The IBCL also contains control share acquisition provisions that limit the ability of certain shareholders to vote their shares unless their control share acquisition is approved. We Cannot Predict Every Event and Circumstance That May Impact Our Business and, Therefore, the Risks and Uncertainties Discussed Above May Not Be the Only Ones You Should Consider The risks and uncertainties discussed above are in addition to those that apply to most businesses generally. In addition, as we continue to grow our business, we may encounter other risks of which we are not aware at this time. These additional risks may cause serious damage to our business in the future, the impact of which we cannot estimate at this time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 