ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are significant to our business. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are some of the important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we believe could make our results differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements. It is impossible to predict or identify all such factors and, as a result, you should not consider the following factors to be a complete discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our business is dependent on customers’ capital spending on data and communication networks and reductions by customers in capital spending adversely affect our business. Our performance is dependent on customers’ capital spending for constructing, rebuilding, maintaining or upgrading data and communication networks, which can be volatile or hard to forecast. Capital spending in the communications industry is cyclical and can be curtailed or deferred on short notice. A variety of factors affect the amount of capital spending, and, therefore, our sales and profits, including: • competing technologies; • general economic conditions; • timing and adoption of global rollout of new technologies, include 4G/LTE; • customer specific financial or stock market conditions; • availability and cost of capital; • governmental regulation; • demands for network services; • competitive pressures, including pricing pressures; • acceptance of new services offered by our customers; • impact of industry consolidation; and • real or perceived trends or uncertainties in these factors. Several of our customers have accumulated significant levels of debt. These high debt levels, coupled with the uncertainty in the capital markets, may impact their access to capital in the future. Even if the financial health of our customers remains intact, these customers may not purchase new equipment at levels we have seen in the past or expect in the future. While there are signs of improvement from the historical housing market disruptions and foreclosures, as well as the material disruptions in the credit markets, that occurred beginning in 2008, we cannot predict the impact of economic uncertainty or of specific customer financial challenges on our customer’s expansion and maintenance expenditures. In addition, industry consolidation has, in the past, constrained, and may, in the future, constrain, capital spending by certain of our customers. Further, if our product portfolio and product development plans do not position us well to capture an increased portion of the capital spending of customers in the markets on which we focus, our revenue may decline. As a result of these capital spending issues, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenue in the future, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. A substantial portion of our business is derived from a limited number of key customers or distributors. We derived 21% of our 2013 consolidated net sales from our top three customers or distributors. Our largest distributor, Anixter, accounted for 12% of our 2013 consolidated net sales. The concentration of our net sales among these and other key customers or distributors subjects us to a variety of risks that could have a material adverse impact on our net sales and profitability, including, without limitation: • lower sales resulting from the loss of one or more of our key customers or distributors; • renegotiations of agreements with key customers or distributors resulting in materially less favorable terms; • financial difficulties experienced by one or more of our key customers, distributors or our distributors’ end customers, resulting in reduced purchases of our products and/or uncollectible accounts receivable balances; • reductions in inventory levels held by distributors and OEMs which may be unrelated to purchasing trends by the ultimate customer; • consolidations in the wireless or cable television industries resulting in delays in purchasing decisions or reduced purchases by the merged businesses; • new or proposed laws or regulations affecting the wireless or cable television industries resulting in reduced capital spending; 18 Table of Contents • increases in the cost of borrowing or capital and/or reductions in the amount of debt or equity capital available to the wireless or cable television industries resulting in reduced capital spending; and • changes in the technology deployed by customers resulting in lower sales of our products. Additionally, the risks above are further increased as a result of our indirect sales to the same ultimate customers. In addition, we generally have no long-term contracts or minimum purchase commitments with any of our distributors, system integrators, value-added resellers, OEMs, or other customers, and our contracts with these parties do not prohibit them from purchasing or offering products or services that compete with ours. While we maintain long-term relationships with these parties and have not historically lost key customers, we have experienced variability in the level of purchases by our key customers, and any significant reduction in sales to these customers, including as a result of the inability or unwillingness of these customers to continue purchasing our products, or their failure to properly manage their business with respect to the purchase of and payment for our products, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate and to adapt to technological changes and develop, implement and market product innovations. Many of our markets are characterized by advances in information processing and communications capabilities that require increased transmission speeds and greater bandwidth. These advances require ongoing improvements in the capabilities of our products. However, we may not be successful in those efforts if, among other things, our products: • are not cost effective; • are not brought to market in a timely manner; • are not in accordance with evolving industry standards; • fail to achieve market acceptance or meet customer requirements; and • are ahead of the needs of their markets. There are various competitive wireless technologies that could be a potential substitute for some of the communications products we sell. Fiber optic technology presents a potential substitute for some of the broadband communications cable products we sell. A significant decrease in the cost of deploying fiber optic systems could make these systems superior on a price/performance basis to copper or aluminum systems and have a material adverse effect on our business. In order to successfully develop and market certain of our planned products, we may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to timely enter into any necessary technology development or licensing agreements on reasonable terms, or at all. The failure to successfully introduce new or enhanced products on a timely and cost-competitive basis or the inability to continue to market existing products on a cost-competitive basis could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, sales of new products may replace sales of some of our existing products, mitigating the benefits of new product introductions and possibly resulting in excess levels of inventory. Our revenues are dependent on the commercial deployment of technologies based on code division multiple access, or “CDMA,” and orthogonal frequency-division multiple access, or “OFDMA,” among others, and upgrades of 2G, 3G and 4G wireless communications equipment, products and services based on these technologies. We develop, patent and commercialize technology and products based on CDMA and OFDMA, among others. Our revenues are dependent upon the commercial deployment of these technologies and products and upgrades of 2G, 3G and 4G wireless communications equipment, products and services based on these technologies. For example, several wireless providers in the United States have recently announced plans to shut down legacy CDMA networks. While we believe the deployment and adoption of LTE technology will help reduce the effect of this industry trend, our business may be harmed, and our investments in these technologies may not provide us an adequate return if: • LTE, an OFDMA-based wireless standard, is not widely deployed or commercial deployment is delayed; • wireless operators delay moving 2G customers to 3G and 4G devices; • wireless operators delay 3G and/or 4G deployments, expansions or upgrades; • government regulators delay the reallocation of spectrum to allow wireless operators to upgrade to 3G and 4G, which will restrict the expansion of 3G and 4G wireless connectivity, primarily outside of major population areas; 19 Table of Contents • wireless operators are unable to drive improvements in 3G and 4G network performance and/or capacity; or • wireless operators and other industries using these technologies deploy other technologies. Our business is dependent on our ability to increase our share of components sold and to continue to drive the adoption of our products and services into 3G and 4G wireless networks. We are also dependent on the success of our customers, licensees and CDMA- and OFDMA-based wireless operators and other industries using our technologies, as well as the timing of their deployment of new services, and they may incur lower gross margins on products or services based on these technologies than on products using alternative technologies as a result of greater competition or other factors. If commercial deployment of these technologies, upgrade of 2G subscribers to 3G devices and upgrades to 3G or 4G wireless communications equipment, products and services based on these technologies do not continue or are delayed, our revenues could be negatively impacted, and our business could suffer. We may not fully realize anticipated benefits from past or future acquisitions or equity investments. We anticipate that a portion of any future growth of our business might be accomplished by acquiring existing businesses, products or technologies. The success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our organization effectively, to retain and motivate key personnel of acquired businesses and to retain their customers. In addition, we might not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on acceptable terms. We might also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition or investment targets, but not complete the transaction. Although we expect to realize strategic, operational and financial benefits as a result of our past or future acquisitions and equity investments, we cannot predict whether and to what extent such benefits will be achieved. There are significant challenges to integrating an acquired operation into our business, including, but not limited to: • successfully managing the operations, manufacturing facilities and technology; • integrating the sales organizations and maintaining and increasing the customer base; • retaining key employees, suppliers and distributors; • integrating management information, inventory, accounting and research and development activities; and • addressing operating losses related to individual facilities or product lines. Any future acquisition could involve other risks, including the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, issuances of debt, transaction costs and diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and such acquisition may be dilutive to our financial results. We face competitive pressures with respect to all of our major products. In each of our major product groups, we compete with a substantial number of foreign and domestic companies, some of which have greater resources (financial or otherwise) or lower operating costs than we have. Competitors’ actions, such as price reductions or introduction of new innovative products, and the use of exclusively price driven Internet auctions by customers may have a material adverse impact on our net sales and profitability. In addition, the rapid technological changes occurring in the communications industry could lead to the entry of new competitors. We cannot assure you that we will continue to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than us, and have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Many of these large enterprises are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by customers in our markets. They often have broader product lines and market focus, and may not be as susceptible to downturns in a single market. These competitors may also be able to bundle their products together to meet the needs of a particular customer, and may be capable of delivering more complete solutions than we are able to provide. To the extent large enterprises that currently do not compete directly with us choose to enter our markets by acquisition or otherwise, competition would likely intensify. Further, some of our competitors that have greater financial resources have offered, and in the future may offer, their products at lower prices than we offer for our competing products or on more attractive financing or payment terms, which has in the past caused, and may in the future cause, us to lose sales opportunities and the resulting revenue or to reduce our prices in response to that competition. Reductions in prices for any of our products could have a material adverse effect on 20 Table of Contents our operating margins and revenue. In addition, many of our competitors have been in operation longer than we have and, therefore, have more long-standing and established relationships with domestic and foreign customers, making it difficult for us to sell to those customers. If any of our competitors’ products or technologies were to become the industry standard, our business would be seriously harmed. If our competitors are successful in bringing their products to market earlier than us, or if these products are more technologically capable than ours, our revenue could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, certain companies that have not had a large presence in the broadband communications equipment market have begun to expand their presence in this market through mergers and acquisitions. The continued consolidation of our competitors could have a significant negative impact on our business. Further, our competitors may bundle their products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products or which may require us to lower our selling prices, resulting in lower revenue and decreased gross margins. If we are unable to compete at the same level as we have in the past, in any of our markets, or are forced to reduce the prices of our products in order to continue to be competitive, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. We depend on channel partners to sell our products in certain markets and regions and are subject to risks associated with these arrangements. We utilize distributors, system integrators and value-added resellers (channel partners) to sell our products to certain customers and in certain geographic regions to improve our access to these customers and regions and to lower our overall cost of sales and post-sales support. For the year ended December 31, 2013, sales to our four largest channel partners represented 20% of our net sales. Our sales through channel partners are subject to a number of risks, including: • the ability of our selected channel partners to effectively sell our products to end customers; • our ability to continue channel partner arrangements into the future because most are for a limited term and subject to mutual agreement to extend; • a reduction in gross margins realized on sale of our products; and • a diminution of contact with end customers which, over time, could adversely impact our ability to develop new products that meet customers’ evolving requirements. In the past, we have seen some distributors acquired and consolidated. If there were further consolidation of our distributors, this could affect our relationships with these distributors. It could also result in consolidation of distributor inventory, which could temporarily depress our revenue. In addition, changes in the inventory levels of our products held by our distributors can result in significant variability in our revenues. We have also experienced financial failure of a limited number of distributors from time to time, resulting in our inability to collect accounts receivable in full. A global economic downturn could cause financial difficulties (including bankruptcy) for our distributors and customers, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We generally have no long-term contracts or minimum purchase commitments with any of our distributors, system integrators, value-added resellers or OEM customers, and our contracts with these parties do not prohibit them from purchasing or offering products or services that compete with ours. Our competitors may provide incentives to any of our distributors, systems integrators, value-added resellers or OEM customers to favor their products or, in effect, to prevent or reduce sales of our products. Any of our distributors, systems integrators, value-added resellers or OEM customers may independently choose not to purchase or offer our products. Many of our distributors, system integrators and value-added resellers are small, are based in a variety of international locations, and may have relatively unsophisticated processes and limited financial resources to conduct their business. Any significant disruption of our sales to these customers, including as a result of the inability or unwillingness of these customers to continue purchasing our products, or their failure to properly manage their business with respect to the purchase of and payment for our products, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, our failure to continue to establish or maintain successful relationships with distributors, systems integrators, value-added resellers or OEM customers could likewise materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If contract manufacturers that we rely on encounter production, quality, financial or other difficulties, we may experience difficulty in meeting customer demands. We rely on unaffiliated contract manufacturers, both domestically and internationally, to produce certain products or key components of products. If we are unable to arrange for sufficient production capacity among our contract manufacturers or 21 Table of Contents if our contract manufacturers encounter production, quality, financial or other difficulties, including labor disturbances or geopolitical risks, or if alternative suppliers cannot be identified, we may encounter difficulty in meeting customer demands. Any such difficulties could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and results of operations, which could be material. If our integrated global manufacturing operations suffer production or shipping delays, we may experience difficulty in meeting customer demands. We internally produce, both domestically and internationally, a portion of certain components used in our finished products. Disruption of our ability to produce at or distribute from these facilities due to failure of our manufacturing infrastructure, fire, electrical outage, natural disaster, acts of terrorism, shipping interruptions or some other catastrophic event could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture products at our other manufacturing facilities in a cost-effective and timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we encounter capacity constraints with respect to our internal facilities and/or existing or new contract manufacturers, it could have an adverse impact on our business. If we do not have sufficient production capacity, either through our internal facilities and/or through independent contract manufacturers, to meet customer demand for our products, we may experience lost sales opportunities and customer relations problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on effective information management systems. We rely on our enterprise resource planning systems to support such critical business operations as processing sales orders and invoicing; inventory control; purchasing and supply chain management; human resources; and financial reporting. If we are unable to successfully implement major systems initiatives and maintain critical information systems, we could encounter difficulties that could have a material adverse impact on our business, internal controls over financial reporting, or our ability to timely and accurately report our financial results. Cyber-security incidents, including data security breaches or computer viruses, could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services, damaging our reputation or exposing us to liability. We receive, process, store and transmit, often electronically, the confidential data of our customers and others. Unauthorized access to our computer systems or stored data could result in the theft or improper disclosure of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records or could cause interruptions in our operations. These cyber-security risks increase when we transmit information from one location to another, including transmissions over the Internet or other electronic networks. Despite implemented security measures, our facilities, systems and procedures, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, software viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events which may disrupt our delivery of services or expose the confidential information of our customers and others. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential information of our customers or others, whether by us or a third party, could (i) subject us to civil and criminal penalties, (ii) have a negative impact on our reputation, or (iii) expose us to liability to our customers, third parties or government authorities. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products, including material purchased from our suppliers, experience quality or performance issues, our business may suffer. Our business depends on delivering products of consistently high quality. To this end, our products are tested for quality both by us and our customers. Nevertheless, many of our products are highly complex and testing procedures used by us and our customers are limited to evaluating our products under likely and foreseeable failure scenarios. For various reasons (including, among others, the occurrence of performance problems unforeseeable in testing), our products (including components and raw materials purchased from our suppliers and completed goods purchased for resale) may fail to perform as expected. Performance issues could result from faulty design or problems in manufacturing. We have experienced such performance issues in the past and remain exposed to such performance issues. In some cases, recall of some or all affected products, product redesigns or additional capital expenditures may be required to correct a defect. We recently agreed to replace and reinstall certain faulty products previously sold by us. In addition, we generally offer warranties on most products, the terms and conditions of which depend upon the product subject to the warranty. In some cases, we indemnify our customers against damages or losses that might arise from certain claims relating to our products. Future claims may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any significant or systemic product failure could also result in lost future sales of the affected product and other products, as well as reputational damage. 22 Table of Contents Our significant international operations expose us to economic, political and other risks. We have significant international sales, manufacturing and distribution operations. We have major international manufacturing and/or distribution facilities, among others, in Australia, Brazil, China, the Czech Republic, Germany, India, Ireland, Mexico, Singapore and the United Kingdom. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, international sales represented approximately 45%, 47%, and 49%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. In general, our international sales have lower margins than our domestic sales. To the extent international sales represent a greater percentage of our revenue, our overall margin may decline. Our international sales, manufacturing and distribution operations are subject to the risks inherent in operating abroad, including, but not limited to, risks with respect to currency exchange rates; economic and political destabilization; restrictive actions by foreign governments; wage inflation; nationalizations; the laws and policies of the United States affecting trade, exports, imports, anti-bribery, foreign investment and loans; foreign tax laws, including the ability to recover amounts paid as value-added taxes; potential restrictions on the repatriation of cash; reduced protection of intellectual property; longer customer payment cycles; compliance with local laws and regulations; armed conflict; terrorism; shipping interruptions; and major health concerns (such as infectious diseases). In addition, foreign currency rates in many of the countries in which we operate have at times been extremely volatile and unpredictable. We may choose not to hedge or determine that we are unable to effectively hedge the risks associated with this volatility. In such cases, we may experience declines in revenue and adverse impacts on earnings and such changes could be material. Our international operations require us to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions, and our failure to comply with these rules and regulations may expose us to liabilities. These laws and regulations may apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents, and may restrict our operations, trade practices, investment decisions and partnering activities. In particular, our international operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). The FCPA prohibits U.S. companies and their officers, directors, employees and agents acting on their behalf from corruptly offering, promising, authorizing or providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. The FCPA also requires companies to make and keep books, records and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets and to maintain a system of adequate internal accounting controls. As part of our business, we deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees and representatives of which may be considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. We are also subject to the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act, which prohibits both domestic and international bribery, as well as bribery across both public and private sectors. In addition, some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have elevated levels of corruption. As a result of the above activities, we are exposed to the risk of violating anti-corruption laws. Violations of these legal requirements are punishable by criminal fines and imprisonment, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, injunctions, debarment from government contracts as well as other remedial measures. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist us and our personnel in complying with applicable U.S. and international laws and regulations. However, our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate these requirements, which could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations and such effects could be material. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Certain of our products are subject to export controls and may be exported only with the required export license or through an export license exception. If we were to fail to comply with export licensing, customs regulations, economic sanctions and other laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for us and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. In addition, if our distributors fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties. Obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in 23 Table of Contents the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Furthermore, export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. While we train our employees to comply with these regulations, we cannot assure that a violation will not occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently. Any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations, penalties, fines, civil and criminal sanctions, and reputational harm. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and such effects could be material. We face risks relating to currency fluctuations and currency exchange. On an ongoing basis we are exposed to various changes in foreign currency rates because significant sales and costs are denominated in foreign currencies. These risk factors can impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. We manage these risks through regular operating and financing activities and periodically use derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward and option contracts. There can be no assurance that our risk management strategies will be effective. We also may encounter difficulties in converting our earnings from international operations to U.S. dollars for use in the United States. These obstacles may include problems moving funds out of the countries in which the funds were earned and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries where the usual accounts receivable payment cycle is longer. We may sell one or more of our product lines, from time to time, as a result of our evaluation of our products and markets, and any such divestiture could adversely affect our expenses, revenues, results of operation, cash flows and financial position. We periodically evaluate our various product lines and may, as a result, consider the divestiture of one or more of those product lines. Any such divestiture could adversely affect our expenses, revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Divestitures of product lines have inherent risks, including the expense of selling the product line, the possibility that any anticipated sale will not occur, possible delays in closing any sale, the risk of lower-than-expected proceeds from the sale of the divested business, unexpected costs associated with the separation of the business to be sold from our information technology and other operating systems, and potential post-closing claims for indemnification. Expected cost savings, which are offset by revenue losses from divested businesses, may also be difficult to achieve or maximize due to a fixed cost structure, and we may experience varying success in reducing fixed costs or transferring liabilities previously associated with the divested business. Difficulties may be encountered in the realignment of manufacturing capacity and capabilities among our global manufacturing facilities that could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands for our products. We periodically realign manufacturing capacity among our global facilities in order to reduce costs by improving manufacturing efficiency and to strengthen our long-term competitive position. The implementation of these initiatives may include significant shifts of production capacity among facilities. There are significant risks inherent in the implementation of these initiatives, including, but not limited to, failing to ensure that: there is adequate inventory on hand or production capacity to meet customer demand while capacity is being shifted among facilities; there is no decrease in product quality as a result of shifting capacity; adequate raw material and other service providers are available to meet the needs at the new production locations; equipment can be successfully removed, transported and re-installed; and adequate supervisory, production and support personnel are available to accommodate the shifted production. In the event that manufacturing realignment initiatives are not successfully implemented, we could experience lost future sales and increased operating costs as well as customer relations problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We may need to undertake additional restructuring actions in the future. We have previously recognized restructuring charges in response to slowdowns in demand for our products and in conjunction with implementation of initiatives to reduce costs and improve efficiency of our operations. During the three years ended December 31, 2013, we recorded net restructuring charges of $63.8 million as a result of our restructuring actions to realign and lower our cost structure and improve capacity utilization. To achieve these objectives, in 2013 we sold certain assets of our BiMetals® business and announced the planned closure of manufacturing facilities in Statesville, North Carolina and Joliet, Illinois, among other actions. Much of the production capacity from these facilities will be shifted to other existing facilities or contract manufacturers. Additional restructuring actions were initiated to realign and lower our cost structure primarily through workforce reductions at various U.S. and international facilities. To complete these announced changes and as a result of changes in business conditions and other developments, we may need to initiate additional restructuring actions that could result in workforce reductions and restructuring charges, which could be material. We may need to recognize additional impairment charges related to goodwill, identified intangible assets and fixed assets. We have substantial balances of goodwill and identified intangible assets. At December 31, 2013, we had a goodwill balance of $1,451 million. We are required to test goodwill for possible impairment on the same date each year and on an interim basis if there are indicators of a possible impairment. We are also required to evaluate amortizable intangible assets and fixed assets for impairment if there are indicators of a possible impairment. During the year ended December 31, 2013, a goodwill impairment charge of $36.2 million was recorded. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of a potential impairment of goodwill, identified intangible assets and fixed assets. If, as a result of a general economic slowdown, deterioration in one or more of the markets in which we operate or in our financial performance and/or future outlook, the estimated fair value of our long-lived assets decreases, we may determine that one or more of our long-lived assets is impaired. An impairment charge would be determined based on the estimated fair value of the assets and any such impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have obligations under our defined benefit employee benefit plans and may be required to make plan contributions in excess of current estimates. At December 31, 2013, the net liability for pension and other postretirement benefits was $37.0 million (benefit obligation of $317.8 million and plan assets of $280.8 million). See Note 10 to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Significant declines in the assets and/or increases in the liabilities related to these obligations as a result of changes in actuarial estimates, asset performance, interest rates or benefit changes, among others, could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and/or results of operations. We expect to fund a material portion of our underfunded pension obligations in the U.S. through 2015 under the terms of an agreement with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), that we entered into in connection with the 2011 closure of our Omaha production facility. We have similar exposures with respect to certain pension plans outside the U.S. Foreign plans represented 45% and 49% of the pension benefit obligation and pension plans’ assets, respectively, as of December 31, 2013. The amounts and timing of the remaining contributions we expect to make to our defined benefit plans reflect a number of actuarial and other estimates and assumptions with respect to our expected plan funding obligations. The actual amounts and timing of these contributions will depend upon a number of factors and the actual amounts and timing of our future plan funding contributions may differ materially from those presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our financial condition may be adversely affected to the extent that we are required to make contributions to any of our defined benefit plans in excess of the amounts assumed in our current projections. We may incur costs and may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and in defending claims that we are infringing the intellectual property of others. We may encounter difficulties and significant costs in protecting our intellectual property rights or obtaining rights to additional intellectual property to permit us to continue or expand our business. Other companies, including some of our largest competitors, hold intellectual property rights in our industry and the intellectual property rights of others could inhibit our ability to introduce new products unless we secure necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. 25 Table of Contents In addition, we have been required and may be required in the future to initiate litigation in order to enforce patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and/or validity of a third party’s patent or other proprietary rights. We also have been and may in the future be subject to lawsuits by third parties seeking to enforce their own intellectual property rights, including against certain of the intellectual property that we have acquired through our strategic acquisitions. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome, could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to cease using proprietary third party technology and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In certain markets, we may be required to address counterfeit versions of our products. We may incur significant costs in pursuing the originators of such counterfeit products and, if we are unsuccessful in eliminating them from the market, we may experience a reduction in the value of our products and/or a reduction in our net sales. Changes to the regulatory environment in which we or our customers operate may negatively impact our business. The telecommunications and cable television industries are subject to significant and changing federal and state regulation, both in the U.S. and other countries, including restrictions under The Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive 2002/95/EC (RoHS), in the European Union regarding the use of certain hazardous materials used in the manufacturing of various types of electronic and electrical equipment, regulations under the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive 2002/96/EC (WEEE), regarding the collection, recycling and recovery for electrical goods and regulations under the European Community Regulation EC 1907/2006 regulating chemicals and their safe use. As a result, such changes could adversely impact demand for our products. Regulatory changes of more general applicability could also have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, changes to the U.S. corporate tax system have been proposed that would lead to the taxation of foreign earnings at the time they are earned rather than when they are repatriated to the U.S. Implementation of such changes would have an adverse effect on our net income and would require us to make earlier cash tax payments. Compliance with current and future environmental laws, potential environmental liabilities and the impact of climate change may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, discharges to air and water, management of regulated materials, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste, and investigation and remediation of contaminated sites. Because of the nature of our business, we have incurred and will continue to incur costs relating to compliance with or liability under these environmental laws and regulations. In addition, new laws and regulations, including those regulating the types of substances allowable in certain of our products, new or different interpretations of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new remediation or discharge requirements, could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the European Union has issued RoHS and WEEE regulating the manufacture, use and disposal of electrical goods. If we are unable to comply with these and similar laws in other jurisdictions, or to sufficiently increase prices or otherwise reduce costs to offset the increased cost of compliance, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The physical effect of future climate change (such as increases in severe weather) may have an impact on our suppliers, customers, employees and facilities which we are unable to quantify, but which may be material. Efforts to regulate emissions of GHGs, such as carbon dioxide are underway in the U.S. and other countries which could increase the cost of raw materials, production processes and transportation of our products. If we are unable to comply with such regulations, sufficiently increase prices or otherwise reduce costs to offset the increased costs of compliance, GHG regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain environmental laws impose strict and in some circumstances joint and several liability (that could result in an entity paying more than its fair share) on current or former owners or operators of a contaminated property, as well as companies that generated, disposed of or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances at a contaminated property for the costs of investigation and remediation of the contaminated property. Our present and past facilities have been in operation for many years and over that time, in the course of those operations, hazardous substances and wastes have been used, generated and disposed of at such facilities and investigation and remediation projects are underway at a few of these sites. There can be no assurance that the contractual indemnifications we have received from prior owners and operators of certain of these 26 Table of Contents facilities will continue to be honored. In addition, we have disposed of waste products either directly or through third parties at numerous disposal sites, and from time to time we have been and may be held responsible for investigation and clean-up costs at these sites where those owners and operators have been unable to remain in business. Also, there can be no guarantee that new environmental requirements or changes in their enforcement or the discovery of previously unknown conditions will not cause us to incur additional costs for environmental matters which could be material. Our dependence on commodities subjects us to cost volatility and potential availability constraints which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our profitability may be materially affected by changes in the market price and availability of certain raw materials, most of which are linked to the commodity markets. The principal raw materials we purchase are rods, tapes, sheets, wires, tubes and hardware made of copper, steel, aluminum or brass; plastics and other polymers; and optical fiber. Fabricated copper, steel and aluminum are used in the production of coaxial and twisted pair cables and polymers are used to insulate and protect cables. Prices for copper, steel, aluminum, fluoropolymers and certain other polymers, derived from oil and natural gas, have experienced significant volatility as a result of changes in the levels of global demand, supply disruptions and other factors. As a result, we have adjusted our prices for certain products and may have to adjust prices again in the future. Delays in implementing price increases or a failure to achieve market acceptance of price increases has in the past and could in the future have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In an environment of falling commodities prices, we may be unable to sell higher-cost inventory before implementing price decreases, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on a limited number of key suppliers for certain raw materials and components. For certain of our raw material and component purchases, including certain polymers, copper rod, copper and aluminum tapes, fine aluminum wire, steel wire, optical fiber, circuit boards and other electronic components, we are dependent on key suppliers. While we maintain long-term relationships, we generally do not enter into long-term contracts with our key suppliers. Our key suppliers have in the past and could in the future experience production, operational or financial difficulties, or there may be global shortages of the raw materials or components we use, and our inability to find sources of supply on reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture products in a cost-effective way. We may not be able to attract and retain key employees, including our sales force. Our business depends upon our continued ability to hire and retain key employees, including our sales force, at our operations around the world. Competition for skilled personnel and highly qualified managers in the telecommunications industry is intense. Difficulties in obtaining or retaining employees with the necessary management, technical and financial skills needed to achieve our business objectives may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Allegations of health risks from wireless equipment may negatively affect our results of operations. Allegations of health risks from the electromagnetic fields generated by base stations and mobile handsets, and potential lawsuits or negative publicity relating to them, regardless of merit, could have a material adverse effect on our operations by leading consumers to reduce their use of mobile phones, reducing demand for certain of our products, or by causing us to allocate resources to address these issues. A significant uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We maintain insurance covering our normal business operations, including property and casualty protection that we believe is adequate. We do not generally carry insurance covering wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes or other similar catastrophic events. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage on financially reasonable terms in the future. A significant uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the financial health of our insurers may deteriorate and our insurers may not be able to respond if we should have claims reaching their policies. 27 Table of Contents Natural or man-made disasters or other disruptions could unfavorably affect our operations and financial performance. Natural or man-made disasters could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the temporary lack of an adequate work force, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from suppliers and delays in the delivery of products to our customers. Damage to our properties, the lack of an adequate workforce, disruption in the supply of products from suppliers, and delays in the delivery of our products to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience significant variability in our quarterly or annual effective income tax rate. We have a large and complex international tax profile and a significant level of net operating loss and other carryforwards in various jurisdictions. Variability in the mix and profitability of domestic and international activities, repatriation of earnings from foreign affiliates, changes in tax laws, identification and resolution of various tax uncertainties and the inability to realize net operating loss and other carryforwards included in deferred tax assets, among other matters, may significantly impact our effective income tax rate in the future. A significant increase in our quarterly or annual effective income tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Labor unrest could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While none of our U.S. employees are represented by unions, substantially all of our international employees are members of unions or subject to workers’ councils or similar statutory arrangements. In addition, many of our direct and indirect customers and vendors have unionized work forces. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by these customers or vendors, contract manufacturers or their other suppliers could result in slowdowns. Organizations responsible for shipping our products may also be impacted by strikes. Any interruption in the delivery of our products could reduce demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on us. In general, we consider our labor relations with all of our employees to be good. However, in the future we may be subject to labor unrest. The inability to reach a new agreement could delay or disrupt our operations in the affected regions, including the acquisition of raw materials and components, the manufacture, sales and distribution of products and the provision of services. Occurrences of strikes, work stoppages or lock-outs at our facilities or at the facilities of our vendors or customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future research and development projects may not be successful. The successful development of telecommunications products can be affected by many factors. Products that appear to be promising at their early phases of research and development may fail to be commercialized for various reasons, including the failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. There is no assurance that any of our future research and development projects will be successful or completed within the anticipated time frame or budget or that we will receive the necessary approvals from relevant authorities for the production of these newly developed products, or that these newly developed products will achieve commercial success. Even if such products can be successfully commercialized, they may not achieve the level of market acceptance that we expect. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a publicly traded company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a publicly traded company, we have incurred and will continue to incur additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not previously incur prior to becoming a publicly traded company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act) and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) and Nasdaq, impose various requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives as well as investor relations. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we have incurred additional costs to maintain such coverage. 28 Table of Contents Furthermore, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to potential delisting by Nasdaq and review by such exchange, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which would require the expenditure by us of additional financial and management resources. As a result, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the market price of our common stock. New regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business. The Dodd-Frank Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (the DRC), and adjoining countries. As a result, in August 2012 the SEC adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use conflict minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products. These new requirements will require due diligence efforts in fiscal 2014 and 2015, with our initial disclosure requirements beginning in May 2016. There will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” conflict minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. We will be required to make similar certifications to our customers. If we are unable or fail to make the requisite certifications, our customers may terminate their relationship with us. Also, we may face adverse effects to our reputation if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we may implement. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our revenue and operating results. Historically, our operations have been seasonal, with a greater portion of total net revenue and operating income occurring in the second and third fiscal quarters. As a result of this seasonality, any factors negatively affecting us during the second and third fiscal quarters of any year, including the variability of shipments under large contracts, customers’ seasonal installation considerations and variations in product mix and in profitability of individual orders, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the entire year. See “Backlog and Seasonality” included in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our quarterly results of operations also may fluctuate based upon other factors, including general economic conditions. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations with respect to our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $2.5 billion of indebtedness on a consolidated basis, including $1,100.0 million of 8.25% Senior Notes due 2019 (the 2019 Notes), $550.0 million of Senior PIK Toggle Notes due 2020 (the 2020 Notes) and $872.8 million of senior secured term loans. We had no outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility and approximately $308.7 million in borrowing capacity available under our revolving credit facility, after giving effect to $54.1 million of outstanding letters of credit and the borrowing base limitations for additional secured borrowings, which borrowing capacity depends, in part, on inventory, accounts receivable and other assets that fluctuate from time to time and may further depend on lenders’ discretionary ability to impose reserves and availability blocks and to recharacterize assets that might otherwise incrementally decrease borrowing availability. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our annual cash flow for the next several years to the payment of interest on our indebtedness; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as, over the term of our debt, the interest cost on a significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to changes in interest rates; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to certain of our competitors who have less debt; • hinder our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions; • limit our ability to secure adequate bank financing in the future with reasonable terms and conditions; and • increase our vulnerability to and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, a potential downturn in general economic conditions or in one or more of our businesses. 29 Table of Contents In addition, the indenture governing the 2019 Notes (the 2019 Notes Indenture), the indenture governing the 2020 Notes (the 2020 Notes Indenture) and the agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities contain affirmative and negative covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. Despite current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness or we may pay dividends in the future. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future under the agreements governing our indebtedness. Although the 2019 Notes Indenture, the 2020 Notes Indenture and the credit agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of thresholds, qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Additionally, these restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that, although preferential to our common stock in terms of payment, do not constitute indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $308.7 million of additional borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility. In addition, if new debt is added to our and/or our subsidiaries’ debt levels, the related risks that we now face as a result of our leverage would intensify. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and our ability to make cash payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. However, none of our subsidiaries is obligated to make funds available to us for payment on our indebtedness. Further, the terms of the instruments governing our indebtedness significantly restrict certain of our subsidiaries from paying dividends and otherwise transferring assets to us. Our ability to make cash payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, to fund planned capital expenditures and to meet other cash requirements will depend on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We might not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available under our senior secured credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. In such circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the 2019 Notes and the 2020 Notes, on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. Such actions, if necessary, may not be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our indebtedness will restrict our ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from such sales. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our revolving credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our senior secured credit facilities and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 30 Table of Contents We are dependent upon our lenders for financing to execute our business strategy and meet our liquidity needs. If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments or we are unable to borrow, it could negatively impact our business. During periods of volatile credit markets, there is risk that any lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including, but not limited to, extending credit up to the maximum permitted by a credit facility. If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their revolving credit commitments or we are unable to borrow (such as having insufficient capacity under our borrowing base), it could be difficult in such environments to obtain sufficient liquidity to meet our operational needs. Our ability to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms may be limited. Although we believe our cash and cash equivalents as well as cash we expect to generate from operations and availability under our revolving credit facility provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, we may need to seek additional financing to compete effectively. If we are unable to obtain capital on commercially reasonable terms, it could: • reduce funds available to us for purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, strategic acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • restrict our ability to introduce new products or exploit business opportunities; • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and competitive pressures in the markets in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage. Difficult and volatile conditions in the capital, credit and commodities markets and in the overall economy could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. A worsening of global economic conditions, including concerns about sovereign debt and significant volatility in the capital, credit and commodities markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Difficult conditions in these markets and the overall economy affect our business in a number of ways. For example: • in the event of volatility in commodity prices, we may encounter difficulty in achieving sustained market acceptance of past or future price increases, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows; • under difficult market conditions there can be no assurance that borrowings under our revolving credit facility would be available or sufficient, and in such a case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on reasonable terms, or at all; • in order to respond to market conditions, we may need to seek waivers from various provisions in our senior secured credit facilities. There can be no assurance that we can obtain such waivers at a reasonable cost, if at all; • market conditions could cause the counterparties to the derivative financial instruments we may use to hedge our exposure to interest rate, commodity or currency fluctuations to experience financial difficulties and, as a result, our efforts to hedge these exposures could prove unsuccessful and, furthermore, our ability to engage in additional hedging activities may decrease or become more costly; and • market conditions could result in our key customers experiencing financial difficulties and/or electing to limit spending, which in turn could result in decreased sales and earnings for us. Our debt obligations may limit our flexibility in managing our business. The 2019 Notes Indenture, the 2020 Notes Indenture and the credit agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service 31 Table of Contents coverage and leverage ratios in certain situations and maintaining insurance coverage. These covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness even if we had satisfied our payment obligations. If we were to default on the credit agreements or other debt instruments, our financial condition would be adversely affected. CommScope Holding Company, Inc. is a holding company with no operations of its own, and it depends on its subsidiaries for cash to fund all of its operations and expenses, including to make future dividend payments, if any. Our operations are conducted almost entirely through our subsidiaries and our ability to generate cash to meet our debt service obligations or to make future dividend payments, if any, is highly dependent on the earnings and the receipt of funds from our subsidiaries via dividends or intercompany loans. We do not currently expect to declare or pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future; however, to the extent that we determine in the future to pay dividends on our common stock, the 2019 Notes Indenture, the 2020 Notes Indenture and the credit agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities, significantly restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to us. In addition, Delaware law may impose requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your common stock at or above the price you paid for your common stock. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other companies in our industry; • the failure of research analysts to cover our common stock; • strategic actions by us, our customers or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • the impact on our profitability temporarily caused by the time lag between when we experience cost increases until these increases flow through cost of sales because of our method of accounting for inventory, or the impact from our inability to pass on such price increases to our customers; • material litigations or government investigations; • changes in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; • changes in key personnel; • sales of common stock by us, Carlyle or members of our management team; • termination of lock-up agreements with our management team and principal stockholders; • the granting or exercise of employee stock options; • volume of trading in our common stock; and • the realization of any risks described under this “Risk Factors” section. In addition, in the past four years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Further, in the past, market fluctuations and price declines in a company’s stock have led to securities class action litigations. If such a suit were to arise, it could have a substantial cost and divert our resources regardless of the outcome. 32 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired and investors’ views of us could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, with auditor attestation of the effectiveness of our internal controls, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2014. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of shares of common stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Our ability to successfully comply with Section 404 requires us to be able to prepare timely and accurate financial statements. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, may cause our operations to suffer and we may be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our auditors. Moreover, we cannot be certain that we will effectively implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Even if we were to conclude, and our independent registered public accounting firm were to concur, that our internal control over financial reporting provided reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. GAAP, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. This, in turn, could have an adverse impact on market price for our common stock, and could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets. We are controlled by Carlyle, whose interests in our business may be different than yours. As of December 31, 2013, Carlyle owned approximately 76% of our common stock and is able to control our affairs in all cases. Pursuant to an amended and restated stockholders agreement, Carlyle has the right to designate up to nine of our eleven directors and a majority of the Board of Directors has been designated by Carlyle and is affiliated with Carlyle. As a result, Carlyle or its nominees to the Board of Directors have the ability to control the appointment of our management, the entering into of mergers, sales of substantially all of our assets and other extraordinary transactions and influence amendments to our certificate of incorporation. So long as Carlyle continues to own a majority of our common stock, they will have the ability to control the vote in any election of directors and will have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires stockholder approval regardless of whether others believe the transaction is in our best interests. In any of these matters, the interests of Carlyle may differ from or conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Moreover, this concentration of stock ownership may also adversely affect the trading price for our common stock to the extent investors perceive disadvantages in owning stock of a company with a controlling stockholder. In addition, Carlyle is in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with our business, as well as businesses that are significant existing or potential customers. Carlyle may acquire or seek to acquire assets that we seek to acquire and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us or may be more expensive for us to pursue. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We do not intend to declare and pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to reduce indebtedness and fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value. However, the payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our Board of Directors deems relevant. The 2019 Notes Indenture, the 2020 Notes Indenture and the credit agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities also effectively limit our ability to pay dividends. As a consequence of these limitations and restrictions, we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce or eliminate, the payment of dividends on our common stock. 33 Table of Contents Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, as a result, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: • authorize 1,300,000,000 shares of common stock, which, to the extent unissued, could be issued without stockholder approval by the Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; • authorize the issuance, without stockholder approval, of blank check preferred stock that our Board of Directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; • grant to the Board of Directors the sole power to set the number of directors and to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors; • limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors only “for cause” if Carlyle and its affiliates collectively cease to own more than 50% of our common stock and require any such removal to be approved by holders of at least three-quarters of the outstanding shares of common stock; • prohibit our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders if Carlyle and its affiliates collectively cease to own more than 50% of our common stock; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders, if Carlyle and its affiliates collectively cease to own more than 50% of our common stock; • provide that the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our bylaws; establish advance notice and certain information requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • establish a classified Board of Directors, with three staggered terms; and • require the approval of holders of at least three-quarters of the outstanding shares of common stock to amend the bylaws and certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation if Carlyle and its affiliates collectively cease to own more than 50% of our common stock. In addition, we opted out of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the DGCL), which, subject to some exceptions, prohibits business combinations between a Delaware corporation and an interested stockholder, which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company and may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if the provisions are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those you desire. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities may dilute your ownership in us and may adversely affect us or the market price of our common stock. We or Carlyle, may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings. We may also issue additional shares of common stock or convertible debt securities to finance future acquisitions. As of December 31, 2013, we had 1,300,000,000 shares of common stock authorized and 185,861,777 shares of common stock outstanding. Shares held by Carlyle (141,466,970) and executive officers (2,354,220) and any shares that may be issued upon exercise of outstanding options by executive officers (4,732,444 vested or expected to vest before April 22, 2014) will become available for sale following the expiration of the lock-up agreements, which, without the prior consent of the representatives of the underwriters, is April 22, 2014, subject to compliance with the applicable requirements under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 34 Table of Contents We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including sales that may occur pursuant to Carlyle’s registration rights and shares that may be issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Future changes in the level of Carlyle ownership could, depending on the timing of such changes, have an adverse effect on our ability to utilize various tax attributes. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of Nasdaq and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. Carlyle continues to control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of Nasdaq. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including: • the requirement that a majority of the Board of Directors consist of independent directors; • the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • the requirements that director nominees are selected, or recommended for selection by the Board of Directors, either by (1) independent directors constituting a majority of the Board’s independent directors in a vote in which only independent directors participate or (2) a nominations committee comprised solely of independent directors, and that a formal written charter or board resolution, as applicable, addressing the nominations process is adopted. We intend to utilize these exemptions for as long as we continue to qualify as a “controlled company.” While exempt, we will not have a majority of independent directors and our nominating and compensation committees will not consist entirely of independent directors and such committees will not be subject to annual performance evaluations. Accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of Nasdaq. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 35 Table of Contents 