Item 1A. Risk Factors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain matters contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include forward-looking statements that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements relate to anticipated financial performance, management’s plans and objectives for future operations, business prospects, outcome of regulatory proceedings, market conditions and other matters. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this report that address activities, events or developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will exist or may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by various forms of words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “seeks,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “continues,” “estimates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” 29 Table of Contents “intends,” “might,” “goals,” “objectives,” “targets,” “planned,” “potential,” “projects,” “scheduled,” “will” or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding: • Amounts and nature of future capital expenditures; • Expansion and growth of our business and operations; • Financial condition and liquidity; • Business strategy; • Estimates of proved gas and oil reserves; • Reserve potential; • Development drilling potential; • Cash flow from operations or results of operations; • Seasonality of our business; and • Natural gas, crude oil and NGLs prices and demand. Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this report. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: • Availability of supplies (including the uncertainties inherent in assessing, estimating, acquiring and developing future natural gas and oil reserves), market demand, volatility of prices and the availability and cost of capital; • Inflation, interest rates, fluctuation in foreign exchange and general economic conditions (including future disruptions and volatility in the global credit markets and the impact of these events on our customers and suppliers); • The strength and financial resources of our competitors; • Development of alternative energy sources; • The impact of operational and development hazards; • Costs of, changes in, or the results of laws, government regulations (including climate change legislation and/or potential additional regulation of drilling and completion of wells), environmental liabilities, litigation and rate proceedings; • Changes in maintenance and construction costs; • Changes in the current geopolitical situation; • Our exposure to the credit risk of our customers; • Risks related to strategy and financing, including restrictions stemming from our debt agreements, future changes in our credit ratings and the availability and cost of credit; • Risks associated with future weather conditions; • Acts of terrorism; and • Other factors described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business.” 30 Table of Contents All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements set forth above. Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We disclaim any obligation to and do not intend to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments, except to the extent required by applicable laws. If we update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements. In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above and referred to below may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this report. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, we caution that there are important factors, in addition to those listed above, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors are described in “Risk Factors.” 31 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks, which we believe are the principal risks that we face and of which we are currently aware, and all of the other information in this report. Some of the risks described below relate to our business, while others relate to our separation from Williams. Other risks relate principally to the securities markets and ownership of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could suffer materially and adversely. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our business requires significant capital expenditures and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all. Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations, capital contributions or borrowings from Williams and sales of assets. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, including the level of production from existing wells, prices of natural gas and oil and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to fund our capital expenditure budget, we may have limited ability to obtain the additional capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. We may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us or at all. The failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a decline in our natural gas and oil production or reserves, and in some areas a loss of properties. Failure to replace reserves may negatively affect our business. The growth of our business depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional natural gas and oil reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves generally decline when reserves are produced, unless we conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. We may not always be able to find, develop or acquire additional reserves at acceptable costs. If natural gas or oil prices increase, our costs for additional reserves would also increase; conversely if natural gas or oil prices decrease, it could make it more difficult to fund the replacement of our reserves. Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. Our past success rate for drilling projects should not be considered a predictor of future commercial success. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. The new wells we drill or participate in may not be commercially productive, and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in wells we drill or participate in. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill dry wells or wells that are productive but do not produce enough reserves to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed, canceled or rendered unprofitable or less profitable than anticipated as a result of a variety of other factors, including: • Increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs and equipment, supplies, skilled labor, capital or transportation; • Equipment failures or accidents; • Adverse weather conditions, such as floods or blizzards; 32 Table of Contents • Title and lease related problems; • Limitations in the market for natural gas and oil; • Unexpected drilling conditions or problems; • Pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • Regulations and regulatory approvals; • Changes or anticipated changes in energy prices; or • Compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements. We expect to invest approximately 60 percent of our drilling capital during 2012 in two relatively new unconventional projects, the Bakken Shale in western North Dakota and the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania. Due to limited production history from the relatively few number of wells drilled in these projects, we are unable to predict with certainty the quantity of future production from wells to be drilled in those projects. If natural gas and oil prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our natural gas and oil properties. Accounting rules require that we review periodically the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties. A writedown constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. For example, as a result of annual and interim assessments for impairments of our proved properties and due to significant declines in forward natural gas prices, we recorded impairments of capitalized costs of certain natural gas properties of $547 million in 2011 and $678 million in 2010. In addition to those long-lived assets for which impairment charges were recorded, certain others were reviewed for which no impairment was required. These reviews included other domestic producing properties and acquired unproved reserve costs, and utilized inputs generally consistent with those described above. Judgments and assumptions are inherent in our estimate of future cash flows used to evaluate these assets. The use of alternate judgments and assumptions could result in the recognition of different levels of impairment charges in the consolidated financial statements. For the other producing assets reviewed, but for which impairment charges were not recorded, we estimate that approximately eight percent could be at risk for impairment if forward prices across all future periods decline by approximately 12 to 14 percent, on average, as compared to the forward prices at December 31, 2011. A substantial portion of the remaining carrying value of these other assets (primarily related to assets in the Piceance basin) could be at risk for impairment if forward prices across all future periods decline by at least 24 percent, on average, as compared to the prices at December 31, 2011. We may incur impairment charges for these or other properties in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. Estimating reserves and future net revenues involves uncertainties. Decreases in natural gas and oil prices, or negative revisions to reserve estimates or assumptions as to future natural gas and oil prices may lead to decreased earnings, losses or impairment of natural gas and oil assets. Reserve estimation is a subjective process of evaluating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Reserves that are “proved reserves” are those estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty are recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions and relate to projects for which the extraction of hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. 33 Table of Contents The process relies on interpretations of available geological, geophysical, engineering and production data. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of developmental expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data included in this report represent estimates. In addition, the estimates of future net revenues from our proved reserves and the present value of such estimates are based upon certain assumptions about future production levels, prices and costs that may not prove to be correct. Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic conditions in existence during the period of assessment. Changes to oil and gas prices in the markets for such commodities may have the impact of shortening the economic lives of certain fields because it becomes uneconomic to produce all recoverable reserves on such fields, which reduces proved property reserve estimates. If negative revisions in the estimated quantities of proved reserves were to occur, it would have the effect of increasing the rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization on the affected properties, which would decrease earnings or result in losses through higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. These revisions, as well as revisions in the assumptions of future cash flows of these reserves, may also be sufficient to trigger impairment losses on certain properties which would result in a noncash charge to earnings. The development of our proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Approximately 41 percent of our total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2011 were proved undeveloped reserves and may not be ultimately developed or produced. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data included in the reserve engineer reports assumes that substantial capital expenditures are required to develop such reserves. We cannot be certain that the estimated costs of the development of these reserves are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the results of such development will be as estimated. Delays in the development of our reserves or increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves will reduce the PV-10 value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our proved reserves as unproved reserves. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the value we ultimately realize of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we have based the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the preceding twelve months without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net revenues from our natural gas and oil properties will be affected by factors such as: • actual prices we receive for natural gas and oil; • actual cost of development and production expenditures; • the amount and timing of actual production; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas and oil properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net revenues may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. 34 Table of Contents Certain of our domestic undeveloped leasehold assets are subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage. The majority of our acreage in the Marcellus Shale and Bakken Shale is not currently held by production. Unless production in paying quantities is established on units containing these leases during their terms, the leases will expire. If we do not extend our leases and our leases expire and we are unable to renew the leases, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. Our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, including drilling results, natural gas and oil prices, availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints and regulatory and lease issues. Prices for natural gas, oil and NGLs are volatile, and this volatility could adversely affect our financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to maintain our existing business. Our revenues, operating results, future rate of growth and the value of our business depend primarily upon the prices of natural gas, oil and NGLs. Price volatility can impact both the amount we receive for our products and the volume of products we sell. Prices affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money under our Credit Facility or raise additional capital. The markets for natural gas, oil and NGLs are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in prices might result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for these commodities, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including: • Worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for natural gas, oil and NGLs; • Turmoil in the Middle East and other producing regions; • The activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • Terrorist attacks on production or transportation assets; • Weather conditions; • The level of consumer demand; • Variations in local market conditions (basis differential); • The price and availability of other types of fuels; • The availability of pipeline capacity; • Supply disruptions, including plant outages and transportation disruptions; • The price and quantity of foreign imports of natural gas and oil; • Domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • Volatility in the natural gas and oil markets; • The overall economic environment; • The credit of participants in the markets where products are bought and sold; and • The adoption of regulations or legislation relating to climate change. Our business depends on access to natural gas, oil and NGL transportation systems and facilities. The marketability of our natural gas, oil and NGL production depends in large part on the operation, availability, proximity, capacity and expansion of transportation systems and facilities owned by third parties. For example, we can provide no assurance that sufficient transportation capacity will exist for expected production from the Bakken Shale and Marcellus Shale or that we will be able to obtain sufficient transportation capacity on economic terms. 35 Table of Contents A lack of available capacity on transportation systems and facilities or delays in their planned expansions could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of drilling plans for properties. A lack of availability of these systems and facilities for an extended period of time could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, we have entered into contracts for firm transportation and any failure to renew those contracts on the same or better commercial terms could increase our costs and our exposure to the risks described above. We may have excess capacity under our firm transportation contracts, or the terms of certain of those contracts may be less favorable than those we could obtain currently. We have entered into contracts for firm transportation that may exceed our transportation needs. Any excess transportation commitments will result in excess transportation costs that could negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, certain of the contracts we have entered into may be on terms less favorable to us than we could obtain if we were negotiating them at current rates, which also could negatively affect our results of operations. We have limited control over activities on properties we do not operate, which could reduce our production and revenues. If we do not operate the properties in which we own an interest, we do not have control over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of underlying properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations or an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements could reduce our production and revenues or increase our costs. As of December 31, 2011, we were not the operator of approximately 14 percent of our total domestic net production. Apco generally has outside-operated interests in its properties. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells and use of technology. Because we do not have a majority interest in most wells we do not operate, we may not be in a position to remove the operator in the event of poor performance. We might not be able to successfully manage the risks associated with selling and marketing products in the wholesale energy markets. Our portfolio of derivative and other energy contracts includes wholesale contracts to buy and sell natural gas, oil and NGLs that are settled by the delivery of the commodity or cash. If the values of these contracts change in a direction or manner that we do not anticipate or cannot manage, it could negatively affect our results of operations. In the past, certain marketing and trading companies have experienced severe financial problems due to price volatility in the energy commodity markets. In certain instances this volatility has caused companies to be unable to deliver energy commodities that they had guaranteed under contract. If such a delivery failure were to occur in one of our contracts, we might incur additional losses to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to, or received from, counterparties. In addition, in our business, we often extend credit to our counterparties. We are exposed to the risk that we might not be able to collect amounts owed to us. If the counterparty to such a transaction fails to perform and any collateral that secures our counterparty’s obligation is inadequate, we will suffer a loss. Downturns in the economy or disruptions in the global credit markets could cause more of our counterparties to fail to perform than we expect. Our commodity price risk management and measurement systems and economic hedging activities might not be effective and could increase the volatility of our results. The systems we use to quantify commodity price risk associated with our businesses might not always be followed or might not always be effective. Further, such systems do not in themselves manage risk, particularly risks outside of our control, and adverse changes in energy commodity market prices, volatility, adverse 36 Table of Contents correlation of commodity prices, the liquidity of markets, changes in interest rates and other risks discussed in this report might still adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and balance sheet under applicable accounting rules, even if risks have been identified. Furthermore, no single hedging arrangement can adequately address all commodity price risks present in a given contract. For example, a forward contract that would be effective in hedging commodity price volatility risks would not hedge the contract’s counterparty credit or performance risk. Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue to exist. Our use of derivatives through which we attempt to reduce the economic risk of our participation in commodity markets could result in increased volatility of our reported results. Changes in the fair values (gains and losses) of derivatives that qualify as hedges under GAAP to the extent that such hedges are not fully effective in offsetting changes to the value of the hedged commodity, as well as changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify or have not been designated as hedges under GAAP, must be recorded in our income. This creates the risk of volatility in earnings even if no economic impact to us has occurred during the applicable period. The impact of changes in market prices for natural gas, oil and NGLs on the average prices paid or received by us may be reduced based on the level of our hedging activities. These hedging arrangements may limit or enhance our margins if the market prices for natural gas, oil or NGLs were to change substantially from the price established by the hedges. In addition, our hedging arrangements expose us to the risk of financial loss if our production volumes are less than expected. The adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and increase the working capital requirements to conduct these activities. In July 2010, federal legislation known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was enacted. The Dodd-Frank Act provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, including oil and gas hedging transactions. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for the creation of position limits for certain derivatives transactions, as well as requiring certain transactions to be cleared on exchanges for which cash collateral will be required. The final impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our hedging activities is uncertain at this time due to the requirement that the SEC and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. These new rules and regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts or reduce the availability of derivatives. Although we believe the derivative contracts that we enter into should not be impacted by position limits and should be exempt from the requirement to clear transactions through a central exchange or to post collateral, the impact upon our businesses will depend on the outcome of the implementing regulations adopted by the CFTC. Depending on the rules and definitions adopted by the CFTC or similar rules that may be adopted by other regulatory bodies, we might in the future be required to provide cash collateral for our commodities hedging transactions under circumstances in which we do not currently post cash collateral. Posting of such additional cash collateral could impact liquidity and reduce our cash available for capital expenditures. A requirement to post cash collateral could therefore reduce our ability to execute hedges to reduce commodity price uncertainty and thus protect cash flows. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and our credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties in the ordinary course of our business. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer and counterparty credit risk. We cannot predict to what extent our business would be 37 Table of Contents impacted by deteriorating conditions in the economy, including declines in our customers’ and counterparties’ creditworthiness. If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers and counterparties, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting increase in nonpayment and/or nonperformance by them could cause us to write-down or write-off doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results in the periods in which they occur and, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We face competition in acquiring new properties, marketing natural gas and oil and securing equipment and trained personnel in the natural gas and oil industry. Our ability to acquire additional drilling locations and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing natural gas and oil and securing equipment and trained personnel. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which they may not be adequately insured. There are operational risks associated with drilling for, production, gathering, transporting, storage, processing and treating of natural gas and oil and the fractionation and storage of NGLs, including: • Hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, extreme weather conditions and other natural disasters; • Aging infrastructure and mechanical problems; • Damages to pipelines, pipeline blockages or other pipeline interruptions; • Uncontrolled releases of natural gas (including sour gas), oil, NGLs, brine or industrial chemicals; • Operator error; • Pollution and environmental risks; • Fires, explosions and blowouts; • Risks related to truck and rail loading and unloading; and • Terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or those of other energy companies. Any of these risks could result in loss of human life, personal injuries, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial losses to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses, and only at levels we believe to be appropriate. The location of certain segments of our facilities in or near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. In spite of our precautions, an event such as those described above could cause considerable harm to people or property and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the event is not fully covered by insurance. Accidents or other operating risks could further result in loss of service available to our customers. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities or by the inability of our insurers to satisfy our claims. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business, including environmental accidents. We do not maintain insurance in the type and amount to cover all possible risks of loss. 38 Table of Contents We currently maintain excess liability insurance that covers us, our subsidiaries and certain of our affiliates for legal and contractual liabilities arising out of bodily injury or property damage, including resulting loss of use to third parties. This excess liability insurance includes coverage for sudden and accidental pollution liability. Although we maintain property insurance on certain physical assets that we own, lease or are responsible to insure, the policy may not cover the full replacement cost of all damaged assets. In addition, certain perils may be excluded from coverage or sub-limited. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. We may elect to self insure a portion of our risks. All of our insurance is subject to deductibles. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In addition, any insurance company that provides coverage to us may experience negative developments that could impair their ability to pay any of our claims. As a result, we could be exposed to greater losses than anticipated and may have to obtain replacement insurance, if available, at a greater cost. Potential changes in accounting standards might cause us to revise our financial results and disclosures in the future, which might change the way analysts measure our business or financial performance. Regulators and legislators continue to take a renewed look at accounting practices, financial and reserves disclosures and companies’ relationships with their independent public accounting firms and reserves consultants. It remains unclear what new laws or regulations will be adopted, and we cannot predict the ultimate impact of that any such new laws or regulations could have. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the SEC could enact new accounting standards that might impact how we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and equity. Any significant change in accounting standards or disclosure requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our investments and projects located outside of the United States expose us to risks related to the laws of other countries, and the taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in currency rates, political conditions and policies of foreign governments. These risks might delay or reduce our realization of value from our international projects. We currently own and might acquire and/or dispose of material energy-related investments and projects outside the United States, principally in Argentina and Colombia. The economic, political and legal conditions and regulatory environment in the countries in which we have interests or in which we might pursue acquisition or investment opportunities present risks that are different from or greater than those in the United States. These risks include delays in construction and interruption of business, as well as risks of war, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law or tax policy, including with respect to the prices we realize for the commodities we produce and sell. The uncertainty of the legal environment in certain foreign countries in which we develop or acquire projects or make investments could make it more difficult to obtain nonrecourse project financing or other financing on suitable terms, could adversely affect the ability of certain customers to honor their obligations with respect to such projects or investments and could impair our ability to enforce our rights under agreements relating to such projects or investments. Operations and investments in foreign countries also can present currency exchange rate and convertibility, inflation and repatriation risk. In certain situations under which we develop or acquire projects or make investments, economic and monetary conditions and other factors could affect our ability to convert to U.S. dollars our earnings denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates can arise when our foreign subsidiaries expend or borrow funds in one type of currency, but receive revenue in another. In such cases, an adverse change in exchange rates can reduce our ability to meet expenses, including debt service obligations. We may or may not put contracts in place designed to mitigate our foreign currency exchange risks. We have some exposures that are not hedged and which could result in losses or volatility in our results of operations. 39 Table of Contents Our operating results might fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. Our revenues can have seasonal characteristics. In many parts of the country, demand for natural gas and other fuels peaks during the winter. As a result, our overall operating results in the future might fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. Demand for natural gas and other fuels could vary significantly from our expectations depending on the nature and location of our facilities and the terms of our natural gas transportation arrangements relative to demand created by unusual weather patterns. Our debt agreements impose restrictions on us that may limit our access to credit and adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Our Credit Facility contains various covenants that restrict or limit, among other things, our ability to grant liens to support indebtedness, merge or sell substantially all of our assets, make investments, loans or advances and enter into certain hedging agreements, make certain distributions, incur additional debt and enter into certain affiliate transactions. In addition, our Credit Facility contains financial covenants and other limitations with which we will need to comply and which may limit our ability to borrow under the facility. Similarly, the indenture governing the Notes restricts our ability to grant liens to secure certain types of indebtedness and merge or sell substantially all of our assets. These covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in, expand or pursue our business activities and prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our current assumptions about future economic conditions turn out to be incorrect or unexpected events occur, our ability to comply with these covenants may be significantly impaired. Our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements could result in events of default. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under a particular facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments, if any, to extend further credit. Certain payment defaults or an acceleration under one debt agreement could cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration of another debt agreement. Such a cross-default or cross-acceleration could have a wider impact on our liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. If an event of default occurs, or if other debt agreements cross-default, and the lenders under the affected debt agreements accelerate the maturity of any loans or other debt outstanding to us, we may not have sufficient liquidity to repay amounts outstanding under such debt agreements. Our ability to repay, extend or refinance our debt obligations and to obtain future credit will depend primarily on our operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to refinance our debt obligations or obtain future credit will also depend upon the current conditions in the credit markets and the availability of credit generally. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or obtain future credit on favorable terms, if at all, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets, the credit markets and the economy in general could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our business may be negatively impacted by adverse economic conditions or future disruptions in global financial markets. Included among these potential negative impacts are reduced energy demand and lower commodity prices, increased difficulty in collecting amounts owed to us by our customers and reduced access to credit markets. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise financing. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. 40 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with climate change. There is a growing belief that emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) may be linked to climate change. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts and the regulation of GHGs have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including negatively impacting the costs we incur in providing our products and services, the demand for and consumption of our products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and the economic health of the regions in which we operate, all of which can create financial risks. In addition, legislative and regulatory responses related to GHGs and climate change create the potential for financial risk. The U.S. Congress has previously considered legislation and certain states have for some time been considering various forms of legislation related to GHG emissions. There have also been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of GHGs. In addition, increased public awareness and concern may result in more state, regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate GHG emissions. Numerous states have announced or adopted programs to stabilize and reduce GHGs. In addition, on December 7, 2009, the EPA issued a final determination that six GHGs are a threat to public safety and welfare. Also in 2009, the EPA finalized a GHG emission standard for mobile sources. On September 22, 2009, the EPA finalized a GHG reporting rule that requires large sources of GHG emissions to monitor, maintain records on, and annually report their GHG emissions. On November 8, 2010, the EPA also issued GHG monitoring and reporting regulations that went into effect on December 30, 2010, specifically for oil and natural gas facilities, including onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. The rule requires reporting of GHG emissions by regulated facilities to the EPA by March 2012 for emissions during 2011 and annually thereafter. We are required to report our GHG emissions to the EPA by March 2012 under this rule. The EPA also issued a final rule that makes certain stationary sources and newer modification projects subject to permitting requirements for GHG emissions, beginning in 2011, under the CAA. Several of the EPA’s GHG rules are being challenged in pending court proceedings, and depending on the outcome of such proceedings, such rules may be modified or rescinded or the EPA could develop new rules. The recent actions of the EPA and the passage of any federal or state climate change laws or regulations could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls on our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any GHG emissions program. If we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent financial markets view climate change and GHG emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of and access to capital. Legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address climate change could also affect the markets for our products by making our products more or less desirable than competing sources of energy. Our operations are subject to governmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose us to significant costs and liabilities that could exceed current expectations. Substantial costs, liabilities, delays and other significant issues could arise from environmental laws and regulations inherent in drilling and well completion, gathering, transportation, and storage, and we may incur substantial costs and liabilities in the performance of these types of operations. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, the discharge of materials into the environment and the security of chemical and industrial facilities. These laws include: • Clean Air Act (“CAA”) and analogous state laws, which impose obligations related to air emissions; • Clean Water Act (“CWA”), and analogous state laws, which regulate discharge of wastewaters and storm water from some our facilities into state and federal waters, including wetlands; 41 Table of Contents • Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), and analogous state laws, which regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal; • Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), and analogous state laws, which impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities; • National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”), which requires federal agencies to study likely environment impacts of a proposed federal action before it is approved, such as drilling on federal lands; • Safe Drinking Water Act (“SDWA”), which restricts the disposal, treatment or release of water produced or used during oil and gas development; • Endangered Species Act (“ESA”), and analogous state laws, which seek to ensure that activities do not jeopardize endangered or threatened animals, fish and plant species, nor destroy or modify the critical habitat of such species; and • Oil Pollution Act (“OPA”) of 1990, which requires oil storage facilities and vessels to submit to the federal government plans detailing how they will respond to large discharges, requires updates to technology and equipment, regulation of above ground storage tanks and sets forth liability for spills by responsible parties. Various governmental authorities, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), the U.S. Department of the Interior, the Bureau of Indian Affairs and analogous state agencies and tribal governments, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the imposition of stricter conditions on or revocation of permits, the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations, delays in granting permits and cancellation of leases. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business, some of which may be material, due to the handling of our products as they are gathered, transported, processed and stored, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations, and water and waste disposal practices. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations, including CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws, for the remediation of contaminated areas and in connection with spills or releases of natural gas, oil and wastes on, under, or from our properties and facilities. Private parties may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. Some sites at which we operate are located near current or former third-party oil and natural gas operations or facilities, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. In addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could materially increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage if an environmental claim is made against us. In March 2010, the EPA announced its National Enforcement Initiatives for 2011 to 2013, which includes the addition of “Energy Extraction Activities” to its enforcement priorities list. To address its concerns regarding the pollution risks raised by new techniques for oil and gas extraction and coal mining, the EPA is developing an initiative to ensure that energy extraction activities are complying with federal environmental requirements. This initiative could involve a large scale investigation of our facilities and processes, and could lead to potential enforcement actions, penalties or injunctive relief against us. Our business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control equipment requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. 42 Table of Contents Also, we might not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time all required environmental regulatory approvals for our operations. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the operation or construction of our facilities could be prevented or become subject to additional costs. We are generally responsible for all liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our facilities and assets, whether acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with certain acquisitions and divestitures, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose us to material losses, which may not be covered by insurance. In addition, the steps we could be required to take to bring certain facilities into compliance could be prohibitively expensive, and we might be required to shut down, divest or alter the operation of those facilities, which might cause us to incur losses. We make assumptions and develop expectations about possible expenditures related to environmental conditions based on current laws and regulations and current interpretations of those laws and regulations. If the interpretation of laws or regulations, or the laws and regulations themselves, change, our assumptions may change, and any new capital costs may be incurred to comply with such changes. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations might adversely affect our products and activities, including drilling, processing, storage and transportation, as well as waste management and air emissions. For instance, federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect our profitability. Our exploration and production operations outside the United States are subject to various types of regulations similar to those described above imposed by the governments of the countries in which we operate, and may affect our operations and costs within those countries. Legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Legislation has been introduced in the United States Congress called the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act (the “FRAC Act”) to amend the SDWA to eliminate an existing exemption for hydraulic fracturing activities from the definition of “underground injection” and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into rock formations in order to stimulate natural gas production. We find that the use of hydraulic fracturing is necessary to produce commercial quantities of natural gas and oil from many reservoirs. If adopted, this legislation could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting at the federal level, and could make it easier for third parties opposed to the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect the environment, including groundwater, soil or surface water. At this time, it is not clear what action, if any, the United States Congress will take on the FRAC Act. Scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities continues in other ways, with the EPA having commenced a multi-year study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing, the initial results of which are anticipated to be available by late 2012. On October 21, 2011, the EPA announced its intention to propose regulations by 2014 under the CWA to regulate wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other natural gas production. In addition to the EPA study, the Shale Gas Subcommittee of the Secretary of Energy Advisory Board issued a report on hydraulic fracturing in August 2011, which includes recommendations to address concerns related to hydraulic fracturing and shale gas production, including but not limited to conducting additional field studies on possible methane leakage from shale gas wells to water reservoirs and adopting new rules and enforcement practices to protect drinking and surface waters. The U.S. Government Accountability Office is also examining the environmental impacts of produced water and the White House Counsel for Environmental Quality has been petitioned by environmental groups to develop a programmatic environmental impact statement under NEPA for hydraulic fracturing. Several states have also adopted or considered legislation requiring the disclosure of fracturing fluids and other restrictions on hydraulic 43 Table of Contents fracturing, including states in which we operate (e.g., Wyoming, Pennsylvania, Texas, Colorado, North Dakota and New Mexico). The U.S. Department of the Interior is also considering disclosure requirements or other mandates for hydraulic fracturing on federal land, which, if adopted, would affect our operations on federal lands. If new federal or state laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could result in delays, eliminate certain drilling and injection activities, make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business as well as delay or prevent the development of unconventional gas resources from shale formations which are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. Our ability to produce gas could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling and completion operations or are unable to dispose of the water we use at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or dispose of or recycle water used in our exploration and production operations, could adversely impact our operations, particularly with respect to our Marcellus Shale, San Juan Basin, Bakken Shale and Piceance Basin operations. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas. The CWA imposes restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of produced waters and other natural gas and oil waste into navigable waters. Permits must be obtained to discharge pollutants to waters and to conduct construction activities in waters and wetlands. The CWA and similar state laws provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for any unauthorized discharges of pollutants and unauthorized discharges of reportable quantities of oil and other hazardous substances. Many state discharge regulations and the Federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System general permits issued by the EPA prohibit the discharge of produced water and sand, drilling fluids, drill cuttings and certain other substances related to the natural gas and oil industry into coastal waters. The EPA has also adopted regulations requiring certain natural gas and oil exploration and production facilities to obtain permits for storm water discharges. In addition, on October 21, 2011, the EPA announced its intention to propose regulations by 2014 under the CWA to regulate wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other natural gas production. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted. Legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations relating to the energy industry, and the complex government regulations to which our businesses are subject, have adversely affected our business and may continue to do so. The operation of our businesses might also be adversely affected by changes in regulations or in their interpretation or implementation, or the introduction of new laws, regulations or permitting requirements applicable to our businesses or our customers. Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry has resulted in increased regulations being either proposed or implemented. Adverse effects may continue as a result of the uncertainty of ongoing inquiries, investigations and court proceedings, or additional inquiries and proceedings by federal or state regulatory agencies or private plaintiffs. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or whether these inquiries will lead to additional legal proceedings against us, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other regulatory action, including legislation or increased permitting requirements. Current legal proceedings or other matters against us, including environmental matters, suits, regulatory appeals, challenges to our permits by citizen groups and similar matters, might result in adverse decisions against us. The result of such adverse decisions, either individually or in the aggregate, could be material and may not be covered fully or at all by insurance. In addition, existing regulations might be revised or reinterpreted, new laws, regulations and permitting requirements might be adopted or become applicable to us, our facilities, our customers, our vendors or our 44 Table of Contents service providers, and future changes in laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, several ruptures on third party pipelines have occurred recently. In response, various legislative and regulatory reforms associated with pipeline safety and integrity have been proposed, including new regulations covering gathering pipelines that have not previously been subject to regulation. Such reforms, if adopted, could significantly increase our costs. Certain of our properties, including our operations in the Bakken Shale, are located on Native American tribal lands and are subject to various federal and tribal approvals and regulations, which may increase our costs and delay or prevent our efforts to conduct planned operations. Various federal agencies within the U.S. Department of the Interior, particularly the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) and the Office of Natural Resources Revenue, along with each Native American tribe, promulgate and enforce regulations pertaining to gas and oil operations on Native American tribal lands. These regulations and approval requirements relate to such matters as lease provisions, drilling and production requirements, environmental standards and royalty considerations. In addition, each Native American tribe is a sovereign nation having the right to enforce laws and regulations and to grant approvals independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations. These tribal laws and regulations include various taxes, fees, requirements to employ Native American tribal members and other conditions that apply to lessees, operators and contractors conducting operations on Native American tribal lands. Lessees and operators conducting operations on tribal lands are generally subject to the Native American tribal court system. In addition, if our relationships with any of the relevant Native American tribes were to deteriorate, we could face significant risks to our ability to continue the projected development of our leases on Native American tribal lands. One or more of these factors may increase our costs of doing business on Native American tribal lands and impact the viability of, or prevent or delay our ability to conduct, our natural gas or oil development and production operations on such lands. Tax laws and regulations may change over time, including the elimination of, or changing the timing of, certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development Tax laws and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation, and the tax laws, treaties and regulations to which we are subject may change over time. Our tax filings are based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various jurisdictions at the time that the filings were made. If these laws, treaties or regulations change, or if the taxing authorities do not agree with our interpretation of the effects of such laws, treaties and regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on us. Among the changes contained in President Obama’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2013, released by the White House on February 13, 2012, is the elimination of, or changing the timing of, certain U.S. federal income tax provisions currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current expensing of intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such changes could be effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate, or change the timing of, certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development. Changes to such federal tax deductions, as well as any changes to or the imposition of new state or local taxes (including the imposition of, or increases in production, severance, or similar taxes) could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. 45 Table of Contents Our acquisition attempts may not be successful or may result in completed acquisitions that do not perform as anticipated. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions of businesses and properties. However, suitable acquisition candidates may not continue to be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. The following are some of the risks associated with acquisitions, including any completed or future acquisitions: • some of the acquired businesses or properties may not produce revenues, reserves, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels or could have environmental, permitting or other problems for which contractual protections prove inadequate; • we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us or that exceed our estimates; • properties we acquire may be subject to burdens on title that we were not aware of at the time of acquisition or that interfere with our ability to hold the property for production; • we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems; • acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls and procedures; and • we may issue additional equity or debt securities related to future acquisitions. Substantial acquisitions or other transactions could require significant external capital and could change our risk and property profile. In order to finance acquisitions of additional producing or undeveloped properties, we may need to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities, the sale of production payments or other means. These changes in capitalization may significantly affect our risk profile. Additionally, significant acquisitions or other transactions can change the character of our operations and business. The character of the new properties may be substantially different in operating or geological characteristics or geographic location than our existing properties. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain external funding for future acquisitions or other transactions or to obtain external funding on terms acceptable to us. Failure of our service providers or disruptions to our outsourcing relationships might negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. We rely on Williams for certain services necessary for us to be able to conduct our business. Williams may outsource some or all of these services to third parties, and a failure of all or part of Williams’ relationships with its outsourcing providers could lead to delays in or interruptions of these services. Our reliance on Williams and others as service providers and on Williams’ outsourcing relationships, and our limited ability to control certain costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some studies indicate a high failure rate of outsourcing relationships. A deterioration in the timeliness or quality of the services performed by the outsourcing providers or a failure of all or part of these relationships could lead to loss of institutional knowledge and interruption of services necessary for us to be able to conduct our business. The expiration of such agreements or the transition of services between providers could lead to similar losses of institutional knowledge or disruptions. Certain of our accounting, information technology, application development and help desk services are currently provided by Williams’ outsourcing provider from service centers outside of the United States. The economic and political conditions in certain countries from which Williams’ outsourcing providers may provide services to us present similar risks of business operations located outside of the United States, including risks of interruption of business, war, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law or tax policy, that are greater than in the United States. 46 Table of Contents Our assets and operations can be adversely affected by weather and other natural phenomena. Our assets and operations can be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and other natural phenomena and weather conditions, including extreme temperatures. Insurance may be inadequate, and in some instances, we have been unable to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms, or insurance has not been available at all. A significant disruption in operations or a significant liability for which we were not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our customers’ energy needs vary with weather conditions. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change or demand is impacted by regulations associated with climate change, customers’ energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes, leading either to increased investment or decreased revenues. Acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our assets and the assets of our customers and others may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our business or cause significant harm to our operations, such as full or partial disruption to the ability to produce, process, transport or distribute natural gas, oil, or NGLs. Acts of terrorism as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with acts of terrorism could cause environmental repercussions that could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs. Risks Related to Our Recent Separation from Williams We may not realize the potential benefits from our separation from Williams. We may not realize the benefits that we anticipated from our separation from Williams. These benefits include the following: • allowing our management to focus its efforts on our business and strategic priorities; • enhancing our market recognition with investors; • providing us with direct access to the debt and equity capital markets; • improving our ability to pursue acquisitions through the use of shares of our common stock as consideration; and • enabling us to allocate our capital more efficiently. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our separation for a variety of reasons. For example, the process of separating our business from Williams and operating as an independent public company may distract our management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities. In addition, although we will have direct access to the debt and equity capital markets following the separation, we may not be able to issue debt or equity on terms acceptable to us or at all. The availability of shares of our common stock for use as consideration for acquisitions also will not ensure that we will be able to successfully pursue acquisitions or that the acquisitions will be successful. Moreover, even with equity compensation tied to our business we may not be able to attract and retain employees as desired. We also may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from our separation if any of the matters identified as risks in this “Risk Factors” section were to occur. If we do not realize the anticipated benefits from our separation for any reason, our business may be materially adversely affected. Our historical financial information may not be representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone public company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical financial information that we have included in this report may not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been an independent, stand-alone entity during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future. We were not operated, as a 47 Table of Contents separate, stand-alone company for the historical periods presented. The costs and expenses reflected in our historical financial information include an allocation for certain corporate functions historically provided by Williams, including executive oversight, cash management and treasury administration, financing and accounting, tax, internal audit, investor relations, payroll and human resources administration, information technology, legal, regulatory and government affairs, insurance and claims administration, records management, real estate and facilities management, sourcing and procurement, mail, print and other office services, and other services, that may be different from the comparable expenses that we would have incurred had we operated as a stand-alone company. These allocations were based on what we and Williams considered to be reasonable reflections of the historical utilization levels of these services required in support of our business. We have not adjusted our historical financial information to reflect changes that will occur in our cost structure and operations as a result of our transition to becoming a stand-alone public company, including changes in our employee base, potential increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale, the provision of letters of credit in lieu of Williams guarantees to support certain contracts and increased costs associated with the SEC reporting and the NYSE requirements. Therefore, our historical financial information may not necessarily be indicative of what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows will be in the future. For additional information, see “Selected Historical Financial Data” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Our costs may increase as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to complying with public company regulations. We have historically operated our business as a segment of a public company. As a stand-alone public company, we may incur additional legal, accounting, compliance and other expenses that we have not incurred historically. We are now obligated to file with the SEC annual and quarterly information and other reports that are specified in Section 13 and other sections of the Exchange Act. We are required to ensure that we have the ability to prepare financial statements that are fully compliant with all SEC reporting requirements on a timely basis. In addition, we are subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including certain requirements of the NYSE, and certain provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley and the regulations promulgated thereunder, which will impose significant compliance obligations upon us. Sarbanes-Oxley, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NYSE, have imposed increased regulation and disclosure and required enhanced corporate governance practices of public companies. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard are likely to result in increased marketing, selling and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. These changes require a significant commitment of additional resources. We may not be successful in implementing these requirements and implementing them could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we fail to implement the requirements with respect to our internal accounting and audit functions, our ability to report our operating results on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired. If we do not implement such requirements in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the NYSE. Any such action could harm our reputation and the confidence of investors and clients in our company and could materially adversely affect our business and cause our share price to fall. We will continue to depend on Williams to provide us with certain services for our business; the services that Williams provides to us may not be sufficient to meet our needs, and we may have difficulty finding replacement services or be required to pay increased costs to replace these services after our agreements with Williams expire. Certain transition services required by us for the operation of our business are currently provided by Williams and its subsidiaries, including services related to finance and accounting, payroll and human resources administration, information technology, real estate and facilities management, sourcing and procurement, mail, 48 Table of Contents print and other office services. We have entered into agreements with Williams related to the separation of our business operations from Williams, including a transition services agreement. The services provided under the transition services agreement commenced on the distribution date and will terminate upon the earlier of (i) one year after the distribution date or (ii) sixty days’ notice by either party. In addition, Williams may immediately terminate any of the services it provides to us under the transition services agreement if it determines that the provision of such services involves certain conflicts of interest between Williams and us or would cause Williams to violate applicable law. We believe it is necessary for Williams to provide services for us under the transition services agreement to facilitate the efficient operation of our business in our transition to a stand alone public company. We are, as a result, depending on Williams for services. While these services are being provided to us by Williams, our operational flexibility to modify or implement changes with respect to such services or the amounts we pay for them will be limited. After the expiration or termination of the transition services agreement, we may not be able to replace these services or enter into appropriate third-party agreements on terms and conditions, including cost, comparable to those that we receive from Williams under the transition services agreement. Although we intend to replace portions of the services currently provided by Williams, we may encounter difficulties replacing certain services or be unable to negotiate pricing or other terms as favorable as those we currently have in effect. Our agreements with Williams require us to assume the past, present, and future liabilities related to our business and may be less favorable to us than if they had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. We negotiated all of our agreements with Williams as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Williams. If these agreements had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties, they might have been more favorable to us. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, we have assumed all past, present and future liabilities (other than tax liabilities which will be governed by the tax sharing agreement as described herein) related to our business, and we will agree to indemnify Williams for these liabilities, among other matters. Such liabilities include unknown liabilities that could be significant. The allocation of assets and liabilities between Williams and us may not reflect the allocation that would have been reached between two unaffiliated parties. We may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial health, and may decrease our profitability. We may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. If our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, or if our cash requirements are more than we expect, we may require more financing. However, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of our preferred stock, the terms of the debt or our preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. The terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. If we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, your ownership in us would be diluted. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, it could affect our financial health, which could negatively affect your investment in us. Our tax sharing agreement with Williams may limit our ability to take certain actions and may require us to indemnify Williams for significant tax liabilities. Under the tax sharing agreement, we agreed to take reasonable action or reasonably refrain from taking action to ensure that the spin-off qualifies for tax-free status under section 355 and section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”) (unless the IRS issues other guidance that can be relied on conclusively to the effect that a contemplated matter or transaction would not jeopardize such tax-free status of the spin-off ). We also agreed to various other covenants in the tax sharing agreement intended to ensure the tax-free status of the spin-off. These covenants restrict our ability to sell assets outside the ordinary course of business, to issue or sell additional common stock (including securities convertible into our common stock), or to enter into certain other corporate transactions. For example, we may not enter into any transaction that would 49 Table of Contents cause us to undergo either a 50% or greater change in the ownership of our voting stock or a 50% or greater change in the ownership (measured by value) of all classes of our stock in transactions considered related to the spin-off. Further, under the tax sharing agreement, we are required to indemnify Williams against certain tax-related liabilities that may be incurred by Williams (including any of its subsidiaries) relating to the spin-off, to the extent caused by our breach of any representations or covenants made in the tax sharing agreement or the separation and distribution agreement, or made in connection with the private letter ruling or the tax opinion that Williams received as a condition to the spin-off. These liabilities include the substantial tax-related liability (calculated without regard to any net operating loss or other tax attribute of Williams) that would result if the spin-off of our stock to Williams’ stockholders failed to qualify as a tax-free transaction. We will not have complete control over our tax decisions and could be liable for income taxes owed by Williams. For any tax periods ending on or before the spin-off , we and our U.S. subsidiaries will be included in Williams’ consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, we or one or more of our U.S. subsidiaries may be included in the combined, consolidated or unitary tax returns of Williams or one or more of its subsidiaries for U.S. state or local income tax purposes. Under the tax sharing agreement, for each period in which we or any of our subsidiaries are consolidated or combined with Williams for purposes of any tax return, Williams will prepare a pro forma tax return for us as if we filed our own consolidated, combined or unitary return, except that such pro forma tax return will generally include current income, deductions, credits and losses from us (with certain exceptions), will not include any carryovers or carrybacks of losses or credits and will be calculated without regard to the federal alternative minimum tax. We will reimburse Williams for any taxes shown on the pro forma tax returns, and Williams will reimburse us for any current losses or credits we recognize based on the pro forma tax returns after taking into account any prior related payments or credits. In addition, Williams will effectively control all of our U.S. tax decisions in connection with any Williams consolidated, combined or unitary income tax returns in which we (or any of our subsidiaries) are included. The tax sharing agreement provides that Williams will have sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings (including tax audits) relating to its tax returns , to prepare and file all consolidated, combined or unitary income tax returns in which we are included (including the making of any tax elections), and to determine the reimbursement amounts in connection with any pro forma tax returns. This arrangement may result in conflicts of interest between Williams and us. For example, under the tax sharing agreement, Williams will be able to choose to contest, compromise or settle any adjustment or deficiency proposed by the relevant taxing authority in a manner that may be beneficial to Williams and detrimental to us. Moreover, notwithstanding the tax sharing agreement, U.S. federal law provides that each member of a consolidated group is liable for the group’s entire tax obligation. Thus, to the extent Williams or other members of Williams’ consolidated group fail to make any U.S. federal income tax payments required by law, we could be liable for the shortfall with respect to periods prior to the spin-off in which we were a member of Williams’ consolidated group. Similar principles may apply for foreign, state or local income tax purposes where we were included in combined, consolidated or unitary returns with Williams or its subsidiaries for foreign, state or local income tax purposes. If there is a determination that the spin-off is taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings underlying the tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, then Williams and its stockholders could incur significant income tax liabilities, and we could incur significant liabilities. The spin-off was conditioned on Williams’ receipt of an opinion of its outside tax advisor reasonably acceptable to the Williams board of directors to the effect that the spin-off would not result in the recognition, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, of income, gain or loss to Williams, and Williams’ stockholders under section 355 and section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, except for cash payments made to stockholders in lieu of 50 Table of Contents fractional shares of WPX common stock that such stockholders would otherwise receive in the distribution. Williams received an opinion from its outside tax advisor to such effect. In addition, Williams received a private letter ruling from the IRS in which the IRS made various rulings, including that the spin-off will not result in the recognition, for federal income tax purposes, of income, gain or loss to Williams and Williams’ stockholders under section 355 and section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, except for cash payments made to stockholders in lieu of fractional shares of WPX common stock that such stockholders would otherwise receive in the distribution. The private letter ruling and opinion relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Williams and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings are, or become, incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Williams and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the private letter ruling or the opinion of its tax advisor and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. In addition, an opinion of counsel is not binding upon the IRS, so, notwithstanding the opinion of Williams’ tax advisor, the IRS could conclude upon audit that the spin-off is taxable in full or in part if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of Williams or us after the spin-off. If the spin-off is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any reason, we could incur significant indemnification liabilities provided for in the tax sharing agreement. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of Williams that we did not assume in our agreements. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for retained liabilities of Williams. Under our agreements with Williams, Williams agreed to indemnify us for claims and losses relating to these retained liabilities. However, if those liabilities are significant and we are ultimately held liable for them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recover the full amount of our losses from Williams. Our prior and continuing relationship with Williams exposes us to risks attributable to businesses of Williams. Williams is obligated to indemnify us for losses that a party may seek to impose upon us or our affiliates for liabilities relating to the business of Williams that are incurred through a breach of the separation and distribution agreement or any ancillary agreement by Williams or its affiliates other than us, or losses that are attributable to Williams in connection with the spin-off or are not expressly assumed by us under our agreements with Williams. Any claims made against us that are properly attributable to Williams in accordance with these arrangements would require us to exercise our rights under our agreements with Williams to obtain payment from Williams. We are exposed to the risk that, in these circumstances, Williams cannot, or will not, make the required payment. Our directors and executive officers who own shares of common stock of Williams, or who hold options to acquire common stock of Williams or other Williams equity-based awards, may have actual or potential conflicts of interest. Ownership of shares of common stock of Williams, options to acquire shares of common stock of Williams and other equity-based securities of Williams by certain of our directors and officers, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when those directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Williams than they do for us. The spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal dividend requirements. The spin-off is subject to review under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. Under these laws, if a court in a lawsuit by an unpaid creditor or an entity vested with the power of such creditor (including without limitation a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy by us or Williams or any of our respective subsidiaries) were to determine that Williams or any of its subsidiaries did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for distributing our common stock or taking other action as part of the spin-off, or 51 Table of Contents that we or any of our subsidiaries did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for incurring indebtedness, including the new debt incurred by us in connection with the spin-off, transferring assets or taking other action as part of the spin-off and, at the time of such action, we, Williams or any of our respective subsidiaries (i) was insolvent or would be rendered insolvent, (ii) had unreasonably small capital with which to carry on its business and all business in which it intended to engage or (iii) intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its ability to repay such debts as they would mature, then such court could void the spin-off as a constructive fraudulent transfer. If such court made this determination, the court could impose a number of different remedies, including without limitation, voiding our liens and claims against Williams, or providing Williams with a claim for money damages against us in an amount equal to the difference between the consideration received by Williams and the fair market value of our company at the time of the spin-off. The measure of insolvency for purposes of the fraudulent conveyance laws will vary depending on which jurisdiction’s law is applied. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if the present fair saleable value of its assets is less than (i) the amount of its liabilities (including contingent liabilities) or (ii) the amount that will be required to pay its probable liabilities on its existing debts as they become absolute and mature. No assurance can be given as to what standard a court would apply to determine insolvency or that a court would determine that we, Williams or any of our respective subsidiaries were solvent at the time of or after giving effect to the spin-off, including the distribution of our common stock. Under the separation and distribution agreement, each of Williams and we are responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses which it owns and operates following the consummation of the spin-off. Although we do not expect to be liable for any such obligations not expressly assumed by us pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, it is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between the parties, and require that we assume responsibility for obligations allocated to Williams, particularly if Williams were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform the subject allocated obligations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock There is not a long market history for our common stock and the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. The market price of our stock may fluctuate widely,,depending upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above in “—Risks Related to Our Business” and the following: • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock after the spin-off or changes in financial estimates by analysts; • the inability to meet the financial estimates of analysts who follow our common stock; • strategic actions by us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • variations in our quarterly operating results and those of our competitors; • general economic and stock market conditions; • risks related to our business and our industry, including those discussed above; • changes in conditions or trends in our industry, markets or customers; • terrorist acts; • future sales of our common stock or other securities; and • investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives. 52 Table of Contents These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, price volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of our common stock is low. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of our common stock may depress the price of our common stock. We have approximately 197 million shares of common stock outstanding. Sales of significant amounts of our common stock or a perception in the market that such sales will occur may reduce the market price of our common stock. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Also, in the future, we may issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then outstanding shares of our common stock. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As a public company, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm that addresses the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet our deadline for compliance with Section 404. Testing and maintaining internal control can divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business. We also expect the new regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified officers and members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or willing to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or their effect on our operations because there is presently no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If either we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting or our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by Section 404, then investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. 53 Table of Contents We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, you will need to sell your shares of common stock to receive any income or realize a return on your investment. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock may be limited by the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”). The future payment of dividends will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. As a result, to receive any income or realize a return on your investment, you will need to sell your shares of common stock. You may not be able to sell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. Provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that stockholders may consider favorable or may prevent efforts by our stockholders to change our directors or our management, which could decrease the value of your shares. Section 203 of the DGCL and provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include the following: • restrictions on business combinations for a three-year period with a stockholder who becomes the beneficial owner of more than 15% of our common stock; • restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove directors; • supermajority voting requirements for stockholders to amend our organizational documents; and • a classified board of directors. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Further, these provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through unsolicited transactions that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. As a result, efforts by our stockholders to change our directors or our management may be unsuccessful. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 