ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.Risks Related to our BusinessIf we fail to implement our business strategy, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success depend in large part on our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy or be able to continue 13Table of Contents improving our operating results. In particular, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve all operating cost savings targeted through focused productivity improvements and capacity optimization, further enhancements of our business and product mix, expansion in selected international regions, opportunistic pursuit of strategic acquisitions and management of key commodity exposures. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our growth efforts or that we will be able to effectively manage expanded or acquired operations. Our ability to achieve our expansion and acquisition objectives and to effectively manage our growth effectively depends on a number of factors, including the following:▪our ability to introduce new products and end-use applications;▪our ability to identify appropriate acquisition targets and to negotiate acceptable terms for their acquisition;▪our ability to integrate new businesses into our operations; and▪the availability of capital on acceptable terms. Implementation of our business strategy could be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal and regulatory developments, general economic conditions or an increase in operating costs. Any failure to successfully implement our business strategy could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may, in addition, decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. The cyclical nature of the metals industry, our end-use segments and our customers’ industries could limit our operating flexibility, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The metals industry in general is cyclical in nature. It tends to reflect and be amplified by changes in general and local economic conditions. These conditions include the level of economic growth, financing availability, the availability of affordable energy sources, employment levels, interest rates, consumer confidence and housing demand. Historically, in periods of recession or periods of minimal economic growth, metals companies have often tended to underperform other sectors. We are particularly sensitive to trends in the transportation and building and construction industries, which are both seasonal, highly cyclical and dependent upon general economic conditions. For example, during recessions or periods of low growth, the transportation and building and construction industries typically experience major cutbacks in production, resulting in decreased demand for aluminum. This leads to significant fluctuations in demand and pricing for our products and services. Because we generally have high fixed costs, our near-term profitability is significantly affected by decreased processing volume. Accordingly, reduced demand and pricing pressures may significantly reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Economic downturns in regional and global economies or a prolonged recession in our principal industry segments have had a negative impact on our operations in the past and could have a negative impact on our future financial condition or results of operations. In addition, in recent years global economic and commodity trends have been increasingly correlated. Although we continue to seek to diversify our business on a geographic and industry end-use basis, we cannot assure you that diversification will significantly mitigate the effect of cyclical downturns. Changes in the market price of aluminum impact the selling prices of our products and the benefit we gain from using scrap in our manufacturing process. Market prices of aluminum are dependent upon supply and demand and a variety of factors over which we have minimal or no control, including:▪regional and global economic conditions;▪availability and relative pricing of metal substitutes;▪labor costs;▪energy prices;▪environmental and conservation regulations;▪seasonal factors and weather; and▪import and export levels and/or restrictions.We may be unable to manage effectively our exposure to commodity price fluctuations, and our hedging activities may affect profitability in a changing metals price environment and subject our earnings to greater volatility from period-to-period. Significant increases in the price of primary aluminum, aluminum scrap, alloys, hardeners, or energy would cause our cost of sales to increase significantly and, if not offset by product price increases, would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are substantial consumers of raw materials, and by far the largest input cost in producing our goods is the cost of aluminum. The cost of energy used by us, however, is also substantial. Customers pay for our products based on the price of the aluminum contained in the products, plus a “rolling margin” or “conversion margin” fee (the “Price Margin”), or based on a fixed price. In general, we use this pricing mechanism to pass changes in the price of aluminum, and, sometimes, in the price of natural gas, through to our customers. In most end-uses and by industry convention, however, we offer our products at times on a fixed price basis as a service to the customer. This commitment to supply an aluminum-based product to a customer at a fixed price often extends months, but sometimes years, into the future. Such commitments 14Table of Contents require us to purchase raw materials in the future, exposing us to the risk that increased aluminum or natural gas prices will increase the cost of our products, thereby reducing or eliminating the Price Margin we receive when we deliver the product. These risks may be exacerbated by the failure of our customers to pay for products on a timely basis, or at all. Furthermore, the RPNA, RPEU and Extrusions segments are exposed to variability in the market price of a premium differential (referred to as “Midwest Premium” in the U.S. and “Duty Paid/Unpaid Rotterdam” in Europe) charged by industry participants to deliver aluminum from the smelter to the manufacturing facility. This premium differential also fluctuates in relation to several conditions. The RPNA, RPEU and Extrusions segments follow a pattern of increasing or decreasing their selling prices to customers in response to changes in the Midwest Premium and the Duty Paid/Unpaid Rotterdam. Similarly, as we maintain large quantities of base inventory, significant decreases in the price of primary aluminum would reduce the realizable value of our inventory, negatively affecting our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a drop in aluminum prices between the date of purchase and the final settlement date on derivative contracts used to mitigate the risk of price fluctuations may require us to post additional margin, which, in turn, could place a significant demand on our liquidity.We purchase and sell LME forwards, futures and options contracts to seek to reduce our exposure to changes in aluminum, copper and zinc prices. The ability to realize the benefit of our hedging program is dependent upon factors beyond our control such as counterparty risk as well as our customers making timely payment to us for product. In addition, at certain times, hedging options may be unavailable or not available on terms acceptable to us. In certain scenarios when market price movements result in a decline in value of our current derivatives position, our mark-to-market expense may exceed our credit line and counterparties may request the posting of cash collateral. Despite the use of LME forwards, futures and options contracts, we remain exposed to the variability in prices of aluminum scrap. While aluminum scrap is typically priced in relation to prevailing LME prices, certain scrap types used in our RSAA operations are not highly correlated to an underlying LME price and, therefore, are not hedged. Scrap is also priced at a discount to LME aluminum (depending upon the quality of the material supplied). This discount is referred to in the industry as the “scrap spread” and fluctuates depending upon industry conditions. In addition, we purchase forwards, futures or options contracts to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices. We do not account for our forwards, futures, or options contracts as hedges of the underlying risks. As a result, unrealized gains and losses on our derivative financial instruments must be reported in our consolidated results of operations. The inclusion of such unrealized gains and losses in earnings may produce significant period to period earnings volatility that is not necessarily reflective of our underlying operating performance. See Item 7A. - “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”We may encounter increases in the cost, or limited availability, of raw materials and energy, which could cause our cost of goods sold to increase thereby reducing operating results and limiting our operating flexibility. We require substantial amounts of raw materials and energy in our business, consisting principally of primary-based aluminum, aluminum scrap, alloys and other materials and natural gas. Any substantial increases in the cost of raw materials or energy could cause our operating costs to increase and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Aluminum scrap, primary aluminum, rolling slab, billet and hardener prices are subject to significant cyclical price fluctuations. Metallics (primary aluminum metal, aluminum scrap and aluminum dross) represent the largest component of our costs of sales. We purchase aluminum primarily from aluminum scrap dealers, primary aluminum producers and other intermediaries. We meet our remaining requirements with purchased primary-based aluminum. We have limited control over the price or availability of these supplies in the future. The availability and price of aluminum scrap, rolling slab and billet depend on a number of factors outside our control, including general economic conditions, international demand for metallics and internal recycling activities by primary aluminum producers and other consumers of aluminum. We rely on third parties for the supply of alloyed rolling slab and billet for certain products. In the future, we may face an increased risk of supply to meet our demand due to issues with suppliers and their rising costs of production and their ability to sustain their business. Our inability to satisfy our future supply needs may impact our profitability and expose us to penalties as a result of contractual commitments with some of our customers. The availability and price of rolling slab and billet could impact our margins and our ability to meet customer volumes. Increased regional and global demand for aluminum scrap can have the effect of increasing the prices that we pay for these raw materials thereby increasing our cost of sales. We may not be able to adjust the selling prices for our products to recover the increases in scrap prices. If scrap and dross prices were to increase significantly without a commensurate increase in the traded value of the primary metals, our future financial condition and results of operations could be affected by higher costs and lower profitability. In addition, a significant decrease in the pricing spread between aluminum scrap and primary aluminum could make recycling less attractive compared to primary production, and thereby reduce customer demand for our recycling business. After raw material and labor costs, utilities represent the third largest component of our cost of sales. The price of natural gas, and therefore the costs, can be particularly volatile. Price and volatility can differ by global region based on supply and 15Table of Contents demand, political issues and government regulation, among other things. As a result, our natural gas costs may fluctuate dramatically, and we may not be able to reduce the effect of higher natural gas costs on our cost of sales. If natural gas costs increase, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Although we attempt to mitigate volatility in natural gas costs through the use of hedging and the inclusion of price escalators in certain of our long-term supply contracts, we may not be able to eliminate the effects of such cost volatility. Furthermore, in an effort to offset the effect of increasing costs, we may also limit our potential benefit from declining costs.The profitability of our scrap-based recycling, rolling and extrusion operations depends, in part, on the availability of an adequate source of supplies. We depend on scrap for our operations and acquire our scrap inventory from numerous sources. These suppliers generally are not bound by long-term contracts and have no obligation to sell scrap metals to us. In periods of low industry prices, suppliers may elect to hold scrap and wait for higher prices. In addition, the slowdown in industrial production and consumer consumption in the U.S. during the recent economic crisis has reduced and is expected to continue to reduce the supply of scrap metal available to us. In addition, exports of scrap out of North America and Europe can negatively impact scrap availability and scrap and metal spreads. If an adequate supply of scrap metal is not available to us, we would be unable to recycle metals at desired volumes and our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our global rolled and extruded products business unit depends on external suppliers for rolling slab and billet for certain products. The availability of rolling slab and billet is dependent upon a number of factors, including general economic conditions, which can impact the supply of available rolling slab and billet and LME pricing, where lower LME prices may cause certain rolling slab and billet producers to curtail production. If rolling slab and billet are less available, our margins could be impacted by higher premiums that we may not be able to pass along to our customers or we may not be able to meet the volume requirements of our customers, which may cause sales losses or result in damage claims from our customers. We maintain long-term contracts for certain volumes of our rolling slab and billet requirements, for the remainder we depend on annual and spot purchases. If we enter into a period of persistent short supply, we could incur significant capital expenditures to internally produce 100% of our rolling slab and billet requirements. Our business requires substantial amounts of capital to operate; failure to maintain sufficient liquidity will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business requires substantial amounts of cash to operate and our liquidity can be adversely affected by a number of factors outside our control. Fluctuations in the LME prices for aluminum may result in increased cash costs for metal or scrap. In addition, if aluminum price movements result in a negative valuation of our current financial derivative positions, our counterparties may require posting of cash collateral. Furthermore, in an environment of falling LME prices, the borrowing base and availability under Aleris International’s asset backed multi-currency revolving credit facility (the “ABL Facility”) may shrink and constrain our liquidity. The loss of certain members of our management may have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our success will depend, in part, on the efforts of our senior management and other key employees. These individuals possess sales, marketing, engineering, manufacturing, financial and administrative skills that are critical to the operation of our business. If we lose or suffer an extended interruption in the services of one or more of our senior officers, our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected. Moreover, the pool of qualified individuals may be highly competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of our senior management or other key employees, should the need arise. Our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent all possible errors that could occur. Each quarter, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, which includes a review of the objectives, design, implementation and effect of the controls relating to the information generated for use in our financial reports. In the course of our controls evaluation, we seek to identify data errors or control problems and to confirm that appropriate corrective action, including process improvements, are being undertaken. The overall goals of these various evaluation activities are to monitor our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures and to make modifications as necessary. Our intent in this regard is that our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures will be maintained as dynamic systems that change (including with improvements and corrections) as conditions warrant. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be satisfied. These inherent limitations include the possibility that judgments in our decision-making could be faulty, and that isolated breakdowns could occur because of simple human error or mistake. We cannot provide absolute assurance that all 16Table of Contents possible control issues within our company have been detected. The design of our system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed absolutely in achieving our stated goals. Because of the inherent limitations in any control system, misstatements could occur and not be detected. If we were to lose order volumes from any of our largest customers, our sales volumes, revenues and cash flows could be reduced. Our business is exposed to risks related to customer concentration. Our ten largest customers were responsible for approximately 28% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. No one customer accounted for more than 5% of those revenues. A loss of order volumes from, or a loss of industry share by, any major customer could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations by lowering sales volumes, increasing costs and lowering profitability. In addition, our strategy of having dedicated facilities and arrangements with customers subject us to the inherent risk of increased dependence on a single or a few customers with respect to these facilities. In such cases, the loss of such a customer, or the reduction of that customer’s business at one or more of our facilities, could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations, and we may be unable to timely replace, or replace at all, lost order volumes. In addition, several of our customers have become involved in bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings and have defaulted on their obligations to us in recent years. Similar incidents in the future would adversely impact our financial conditions and results of operations. We do not have long-term contractual arrangements with a substantial number of our customers, and our sales volumes and revenues could be reduced if our customers switch their suppliers. Approximately 75% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 were generated from customers who do not have long-term contractual arrangements with us. These customers purchase products and services from us on a purchase order basis and may choose not to continue to purchase our products and services. Any significant loss of these customers or a significant reduction in their purchase orders could have a material negative impact on our sales volume and business.Our business requires substantial capital investments that we may be unable to fulfill. Our operations are capital intensive. Our total capital expenditures were $390.2 million, $204.6 million, and $62.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our 2011 and 2012 capital expenditures include spending related to the Zhenjiang rolling mill. We may not generate sufficient operating cash flows and our external financing sources may not be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to make anticipated capital expenditures, service or refinance our indebtedness or fund other liquidity needs. If we are unable to make upgrades or purchase new plants and equipment, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected by higher maintenance costs, lower sales volumes due to the impact of reduced product quality, and other competitive influences. The Zhenjiang rolling mill will require significant funding to support start-up of full operations.We have substantially completed construction of the Zhenjiang rolling mill. We intend to continue the start-up phase of that operation throughout 2013, growing our sales meaningfully as the year progresses. To support this phase, the mill will require funding for start up expenses, residual capital expenditures and working capital, potentially reaching an aggregate of $200 million in 2013. This funding will come from an RMB 232.8 million (or equivalent to approximately $36.9 million) revolving credit facility (the “Zhenjiang Revolver”) provided by the People’s Bank of China and with capital contributed by us. While construction of the mill is substantially complete, there is residual spending to be paid throughout 2013. We estimate capital expenditures for 2013 to be approximately $137 million. In addition, we anticipate 2013 start-up expenses of $25 million to $30 million. These start-up expenses are tied to non-recurring operating losses expected to be incurred while the mill is ramping up to full production, as well as expenses associated with obtaining certification to produce aircraft sheet and plate. Furthermore, significant investment in working capital is needed to fund our anticipated sales growth in 2013. Working capital requirements are anticipated to be funded under the Zhenjiang Revolver and with capital contributed by us. The Chinese government exercises significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, including imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways, so we may experience future disruptions to our access to capital in the Chinese market. In addition, we have to meet certain conditions to be able to draw on the Zhenjiang Revolver, including “completing construction of the Zhenjiang rolling mill with the ability to produce aluminum products in commercially feasible quantities.” We can not be certain that we will be able to draw all amounts committed under the Zhenjiang Revolver in the future. We also may not generate sufficient operating cash flows and our external financing sources may not be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund the anticipated working capital needs of the Zhenjiang rolling mill. To the extent that funding is not available under the Zhenjiang Revolver, we may need to increase the amount of capital 17Table of Contents necessary to fund the Zhenjiang rolling mill from our own or other sources of capital. The availability of financing, as well as future actions or policies of the Chinese government, could materially affect the funding of our working capital needs in China, which may delay our ability to produce and sell material from the Zhenjiang rolling mill.We may not be able to compete successfully in the industry segments we serve and aluminum may become less competitive with alternative materials, which could reduce our share of industry sales, sales volumes and selling prices. Aluminum competes with other materials such as steel, plastic, composite materials and glass for various applications. Higher aluminum prices tend to make aluminum products less competitive with these alternative materials. We compete in the production and sale of rolled aluminum products with a number of other aluminum rolling mills, including large, single-purpose sheet mills, continuous casters and other multi-purpose mills, some of which are larger and have greater financial and technical resources than we do. We compete with other rolled products suppliers, principally multipurpose mills, on the basis of quality, price, timeliness of delivery, technological innovation and customer service. Producers with a different cost basis may, in certain circumstances, have a competitive pricing advantage. We also compete with other aluminum recyclers in segments that are highly fragmented and characterized by smaller, regional operators. The principal factors of competition in our aluminum recycling business include price, metal recovery rates, proximity to customers, customer service, molten metal delivery capability, environmental and safety regulatory compliance and types of services offered. As we increase our international business, we encounter the risk that non-U.S. governments could take actions to enhance local production or local ownership at our expense.Additional competition could result in a reduced share of industry sales or reduced prices for our products and services, which could decrease revenues or reduce volumes, either of which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our sales is derived from our international operations, which exposes us to certain risks inherent in doing business abroad. We have aluminum recycling operations in Germany, the United Kingdom, Mexico, Norway and Canada and magnesium recycling operations in Germany. We also have rolled products and extrusions operations in Germany, Belgium and China. We continue to explore opportunities to expand our international operations. We have substantially completed construction of the Zhenjiang rolling mill, located in China. Our international operations generally are subject to risks, including: ▪changes in U.S. and international governmental regulations, trade restrictions and laws, including tax laws and regulations;▪compliance with U.S. and foreign anti-corruption and trade control laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export controls and economic sanction programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control;▪currency exchange rate fluctuations;▪tariffs and other trade barriers;▪the potential for nationalization of enterprises or government policies favoring local production;▪interest rate fluctuations;▪high rates of inflation;▪currency restrictions and limitations on repatriation of profits;▪differing protections for intellectual property and enforcement thereof;▪divergent environmental laws and regulations; and▪political, economic and social instability. The occurrence of any of these events could cause our costs to rise, limit growth opportunities or have a negative effect on our operations and our ability to plan for future periods, and subject us to risks not generally prevalent in the U.S. The financial condition and results of operations of some of our operating entities are reported in various currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these currencies may have a negative impact on reported revenues and operating 18Table of Contents profit, and the resulting accounts receivable, while depreciation of the U.S. dollar against these currencies may generally have a positive effect on reported revenues and operating profit. In addition, a portion of the revenues generated by our international operations are denominated in U.S. dollars, while the majority of costs incurred are denominated in local currencies. As a result, appreciation in the U.S. dollar may have a positive impact on earnings while depreciation of the U.S. dollar may have a negative impact on earnings. Current environmental liabilities as well as the cost of compliance with, and liabilities under, health and safety laws could increase our operating costs and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, which govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the remediation of contaminated sites and employee health and safety. Future environmental regulations could impose stricter compliance requirements on the industries in which we operate. Additional pollution control equipment, process changes, or other environmental control measures may be needed at some of our facilities to meet future requirements. Financial responsibility for contaminated property can be imposed on us where current operations have had an environmental impact. Such liability can include the cost of investigating and remediating contaminated soil or ground water, fines and penalties sought by environmental authorities, and damages arising out of personal injury, contaminated property and other toxic tort claims, as well as lost or impaired natural resources. Certain environmental laws impose strict, and in certain circumstances joint and several, liability for certain kinds of matters, such that a person can be held liable without regard to fault for all of the costs of a matter even though others were also involved or responsible. The costs of all such matters have not been material to net income (loss) for any accounting period since January 1, 2007. However, future remedial requirements at currently owned or operated properties or adjacent areas could result in significant liabilities.Changes in environmental requirements or changes in their enforcement could materially increase our costs. For example, if salt cake, a by-product from some of our recycling operations, were to become classified as a hazardous waste in the U.S., the costs to manage and dispose of it would increase and could result in significant increased expenditures. We could experience labor disputes that could disrupt our business. Approximately 45% of our U.S. employees and substantially all of our non-U.S. employees, located primarily in Europe where union membership is common, are represented by unions or equivalent bodies and are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements which are subject to periodic renegotiation. Although we believe that we will successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements when the current agreements expire, these negotiations may not prove successful, may result in a significant increase in the cost of labor, or may break down and result in the disruption or cessation of our operations.Labor negotiations may not conclude successfully, and, in that case, work stoppages or labor disturbances may occur. Any such stoppages or disturbances may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations by limiting plant production, sales volumes and profitability. New governmental regulation relating to greenhouse gas emissions may subject us to significant new costs and restrictions on our operations. Climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. Many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. There are legislative and regulatory initiatives in various jurisdictions that would regulate greenhouse gas emissions through a cap-and-trade system under which emitters would be required to buy allowances to offset emissions of greenhouse gas. In addition, several states, including states where we have manufacturing plants, are considering various greenhouse gas registration and reduction programs. Certain of our manufacturing plants use significant amounts of energy, including electricity and natural gas, and certain of our plants emit amounts of greenhouse gas above certain minimum thresholds that are likely to be affected by existing proposals. Greenhouse gas regulation could increase the price of the electricity we purchase, increase costs for our use of natural gas, potentially restrict access to or the use of natural gas, require us to purchase allowances to offset our own emissions or result in an overall increase in our costs of raw materials, any one of which could significantly increase our costs, reduce our competitiveness in a global economy or otherwise negatively affect our business, operations or financial results. While future emission regulation appears likely, it is too early to predict how this regulation may affect our business, operations or financial results. Further aluminum industry consolidation could impact our business. The aluminum industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years, and there may be further industry consolidation in the future. Although current industry consolidation has not negatively impacted our business, further consolidation in the aluminum industry could possibly have negative impacts that we cannot reliably predict. 19Table of Contents Our operations present significant risk of injury or death. We may be subject to claims that are not covered by or exceed our insurance. Because of the heavy industrial activities conducted at our facilities, there exists a risk of injury or death to our employees or other visitors, notwithstanding the safety precautions we take. Our operations are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local agencies responsible for employee health and safety, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, which has from time to time levied fines against us for certain isolated incidents. While we have in place policies to minimize such risks, we may nevertheless be unable to avoid material liabilities for any employee death or injury that may occur in the future. These types of incidents may not be covered by or may exceed our insurance coverage and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. New derivatives legislation could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and on the cost of our hedging activities. We use over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives products to hedge our metal commodity risks and, historically, our interest rate and currency risks. Legislation has been adopted to increase the regulatory oversight of the OTC derivatives markets and impose restrictions on certain derivative transactions, which could affect the use of derivatives in hedging transactions. Final regulations pursuant to this legislation defining which companies will be subject to the legislation have not yet been adopted. If future regulations subject us to additional capital or margin requirements or other restrictions on our trading and commodity positions, they could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and on the cost of our hedging activities. Our pension obligations are currently underfunded. We may have to make significant cash payments to our pension plans, which would reduce the cash available for our business and have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. Our U.S. defined benefit pension plans cover certain salaried and non-salaried employees at our corporate headquarters and within our RPNA segment. The plan benefits are based on age, years of service and employees’ eligible compensation during employment for all employees not covered under a collective bargaining agreement and on stated amounts based on job grade and years of service prior to retirement for non-salaried employees covered under a collective bargaining agreement. Our funding policy for the U.S. defined benefit pension plans is to make annual contributions based on advice from our actuaries and the evaluation of our cash position, but not less than minimum statutory requirements. All of the minimum funding requirements of the Code and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”) for these plans have been met as of December 31, 2012, at which time, the U.S. defined benefit pension plans, in the aggregate, were underfunded (on a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”) basis) by approximately $71.8 million. The liabilities could increase or decrease, depending on a number of factors, including future changes in benefits, investment returns, and the assumptions used to calculate the liability. The current underfunded status of the U.S. defined benefit plans requires us to notify the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”) of certain “reportable events,” (within the meaning of ERISA), including if we pay certain extraordinary dividends. Under Title IV of ERISA, the PBGC has the authority under certain circumstances or upon the occurrence of certain events to terminate an underfunded pension plan. One such circumstance is the occurrence of an event that unreasonably increases the risk of unreasonably large losses to the PBGC. We believe it is unlikely that the PBGC would terminate any of our plans, which would result in our incurring a liability to the PBGC that could be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. However, in the event we increase our indebtedness and/or pay an extraordinary dividend, the PBGC could enter into a negotiation with us that could cause us to materially increase or accelerate our funding obligations under our U.S. defined benefit pension plans. The occurrence of either of those actions could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness.We are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems.Our global operations are managed through numerous information technology systems. If these systems are damaged, cease to function properly or are subject to a cyber security breach, we may suffer an interruption in our ability to manage and operate the business which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, we are continually modifying and enhancing our information systems and technology to increase productivity and efficiency. As new systems and technologies are implemented, we could experience unanticipated difficulties resulting in unexpected costs and adverse impacts to our manufacturing and other business processes. When implemented, the information systems and technology may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to ongoing operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness20Table of Contents Our substantial leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our financial condition and restrict our operating flexibility. We have substantial consolidated debt and, as a result, significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2012, our total consolidated indebtedness was $1.2 billion, excluding $43.0 million of outstanding letters of credit. We also would have had the ability to borrow up to $411.0 million under the ABL Facility. Aleris Zhenjiang, which is an unrestricted subsidiary and non-guarantor under the indentures governing the $500.0 million aggregate original principal amount of 7 5/8% Senior Notes due 2018 (the “7 5/8% Senior Notes”) and the $500.0 million aggregate original principal amount of 7 7/8% Senior Notes due 2020 (the “7 7/8% Senior Notes” and, together with the 7 5/8% Senior Notes, the “Senior Notes”), had the ability to borrow up to an additional $36.9 million (on a U.S. dollar equivalent subject to exchange rate fluctuations) under the Zhenjiang Revolver. Our substantial level of debt and debt service obligations could have important consequences, including the following:▪making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, which could result in an event of default under the indentures governing the Senior Notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness;▪limiting our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, debt service requirements and other general corporate requirements;▪increasing our vulnerability to general economic downturns, competition and industry conditions, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and therefore we may be unable to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting;▪exposing our cash flows to changes in floating rates of interest such that an increase in floating rates could negatively impact our cash flows;▪imposing additional restrictions on the manner in which we conduct our business under financing documents, including restrictions on our ability to pay dividends, make investments, incur additional debt and sell assets; and▪reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, other debt obligations and other general corporate requirements, because we will be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flows to service debt obligations.The occurrence of any one of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, prospects and ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, in the future. Although the indentures governing the Senior Notes and the credit agreement governing the ABL Facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and any indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Aleris International’s ability to borrow under the ABL Facility will remain limited by the amount of the borrowing base. In addition, the ABL Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes allow Aleris International to incur a significant amount of indebtedness in connection with acquisitions and a significant amount of purchase money debt. If new debt is added to our and/or our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they face would be increased. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will primarily depend upon our future operating performance. As a result, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments to satisfy our debt obligations. Included in such factors are the requirements, under certain scenarios, of our counterparties that we post cash collateral to maintain our hedging positions. In addition, price declines, by reducing the borrowing base, could limit availability under the ABL Facility and further constrain our liquidity. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt service obligations, including payments on the Senior Notes, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments and the indentures governing the Senior Notes 21Table of Contents may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives, which in turn could exacerbate the effects of any failure to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance our obligations at all or on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to business changes or to take certain actions, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations in respect of the Senior Notes.The terms of the ABL Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. The credit agreement governing the ABL Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes contain, and the terms of any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. The indentures governing the Senior Notes and the credit agreement governing the ABL Facility include covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of Aleris International and certain of its subsidiaries’ to: ▪incur additional indebtedness;▪pay dividends on capital stock and make other restricted payments;▪make investments and acquisitions;▪engage in transactions with our affiliates;▪sell assets; ▪merge or consolidate with other entities; and ▪create liens. In addition, Aleris International’s ability to borrow under the ABL Facility is limited by a borrowing base and, under certain circumstances, the ABL Facility requires Aleris International to comply with a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and may require Aleris International to reduce its debt or take other actions in order to comply with this ratio. See Note 9, “Long-Term Debt,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K for further details. Moreover, the ABL Facility provides discretion to the agent bank acting on behalf of the lenders to impose additional availability and other reserves, which could materially impair the amount of borrowings that would otherwise be available to Aleris International. There can be no assurance that the agent bank will not impose such reserves or, were it to do so, that the resulting impact of this action would not materially and adversely impair our liquidity. A breach of any of these provisions could result in a default under the ABL Facility or either of the indentures governing the Senior Notes, as the case may be, that would allow lenders or noteholders, as applicable, to declare the applicable outstanding debt immediately due and payable. If we are unable to pay those amounts because we do not have sufficient cash on hand or are unable to obtain alternative financing on acceptable terms, the lenders or noteholders, as applicable, could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or, in the case of the ABL Facility, proceed against any assets that serve as collateral to secure such debt. The lenders under the ABL Facility will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand future downturns in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of limitations imposed on Aleris International and its subsidiaries by the restrictive covenants under the ABL Facility and the Senior Notes. Risks Related to the Chapter 11 CasesOur actual financial results may vary significantly from the projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court. In connection with the disclosure statement and the hearing to consider confirmation of the Plan of Reorganization, Aleris International prepared projected financial information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of the Plan of Reorganization and its ability to continue operations upon emergence from the Chapter 11 reorganization cases (the “Chapter 11 Cases”). This information was not audited or reviewed by our independent public accountants. These projections were prepared solely for the purpose of the Chapter 11 Cases and have not been, and will not be, updated on an ongoing basis. These projections are not included in this annual report on Form 10-K and have not been incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K. At the time they were prepared, the projections reflected numerous assumptions concerning our anticipated future performance and with respect to prevailing and anticipated industry and economic conditions that were and remain beyond our control and that may not materialize. Projections are inherently subject to substantial and numerous 22Table of Contents uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks and the assumptions underlying the projections and/or valuation estimates may prove to be wrong in material respects. Actual results may vary significantly from those contemplated by the projections. Neither our financial condition nor our results of operations covering periods after the Emergence Date will be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements covering periods before the Emergence Date. As of the date of Aleris International’s emergence from bankruptcy, we have adopted fresh-start accounting rules as a result of the bankruptcy reorganization as prescribed in accordance with the Reorganizations topic of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification. As required by fresh-start accounting, assets and liabilities have been recorded at fair value, based on values determined in connection with the implementation of the Plan of Reorganization. Accordingly, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations from and after Aleris International’s emergence from Chapter 11 will not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in the Predecessor’s historical financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. Further, during the course of the Chapter 11 Cases, the Predecessor’s financial results were volatile as asset impairments, government regulations, bankruptcy professional fees, contract terminations and rejections and claims assessments, among other things, significantly impacted its consolidated financial statements. As a result, the amounts reported in our financial statements after emergence from Chapter 11 will materially differ from the Predecessor’s historical financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K.When Aleris International emerged from bankruptcy protection, the emergence was structured as an asset acquisition. Although we expect the asset acquisition to be treated as a taxable transaction, there is no assurance that the IRS would not take a contrary position. Were the transfer of assets to Aleris International determined to constitute a tax-free reorganization, our consolidated group would carry over the tax attributes of the Predecessor. and its subsidiaries (including tax basis in assets), subject to the required attribute reduction attributable to the substantial cancellation of debt incurred and other applicable limitations. The required attribute reduction would be expected to leave our consolidated group with little or no net operating loss carryforwards and with a significantly diminished tax basis in our assets (with the result that our consolidated group could have increased taxable income over time, as such assets are sold or would otherwise be depreciated or amortized).We may be subject to claims that were not discharged in the Chapter 11 Cases, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. Substantially all claims that arose prior to the date of the bankruptcy filing were resolved during the Chapter 11 Cases. Subject to certain exceptions (such as certain employee and customer claims), all claims against and interests in the Predecessor that arose prior to the initiation of the Chapter 11 Cases (1) are subject to compromise and/or treatment under the Plan of Reorganization and (2) were discharged, in accordance with and subject to the Bankruptcy Code and the terms of the Plan of Reorganization. Pursuant to the terms of the Plan of Reorganization, the provisions of the Plan of Reorganization constitute a good faith compromise or settlement of all such claims. The entry of the order confirming the Plan of Reorganization constituted the Bankruptcy Court’s approval of the compromise or settlement arrived at with respect to all such claims. Circumstances in which claims and other obligations that arose prior to the bankruptcy filing may not have been discharged include instances where a claimant had inadequate notice of the bankruptcy filing or a valid argument as to when its claim arose as a matter of law or otherwise. We cannot be certain that the Chapter 11 Cases will not adversely affect our operations going forward. Although Aleris International emerged from bankruptcy upon consummation of the Plan of Reorganization on June 1, 2010, we cannot assure you that having been subject to bankruptcy protection will not adversely affect our operations going forward, including our ability to negotiate favorable terms from suppliers, hedging counterparties and others and to attract and retain customers. The failure to obtain such favorable terms and attract and retain customers could adversely affect our financial performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None.23Table of Contents 