ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this report. Risks Related to our Business We have experienced adverse conditions that have caused us to be subject to regulatory orders restricting the activities of the Bank and the Company, as a result of which we may not be as profitable as similarly situated banks that are not subject to such conditions. Since 2009, both the Bank and the Company have operated under regulatory limitations on, among other things, our ability to pay cash dividends or to renew or incur additional debt at the Company level, soliciting or renewing brokered deposits, and extending additional credit to certain borrowers, and our directors and executive officers. We also have been required to reduce classified assets and reliance on noncore funding sources and to improve the Bank’s capital ratios. The cease and desist order dated May 8, 2009 pertaining to the Bank was terminated on March 26, 2012 and replaced with the Supervisory Agreement, while the Company continues to remain subject to the Company Order. We expect to remain subject to it and the Supervisory Agreement for the near future. We intend to take aggressive actions to comply with these obligations. If we are not able to meet the applicable requirements, or if in the future we experience adverse conditions that cause us to fall below the standards set by our regulators and by applicable banking laws and regulations, we may again become subject to more stringent regulatory orders and other regulatory enforcement actions, including but not limited to monetary fines or even the potential closure of the Bank. Moreover, as we comply with these regulatory enforcement actions, we may not be able to grow our business as quickly and therefore may not be as profitable as other banks that are similarly situated but that are not taking such measures. In addition, our current regulatory enforcement actions do, and we would anticipate that any subsequent voluntary replacement agreement would, limit our ability to take certain actions and pursue various operating strategies that might otherwise improve our earnings and results of operations. We have incurred substantial losses in the recent past and we cannot assure you that we will remain profitable. We sustained losses in each quarter from the beginning of 2009 until the second quarter of 2011. Our ability to remain profitable depends primarily on our ability to originate loans and either sell them into the secondary market or hold them in our loan portfolio and collect interest and principal as they come due. When loans become nonperforming or their ultimate collection is in doubt, our income is adversely affected. Our provision for loan losses was $34.4 million during fiscal 2008, $153.5 million in 2009, $37.3 million in 2010 and $3.3 million in 2011. We recognized net losses of $110.3 million and $34.2 million during fiscal 2009 and 2010, respectively. Although we earned net income of $16.1 million during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, we cannot offer assurances that we will remain profitable in the future. Our ability to sustain profitability will depend significantly on the successful resolution of nonperforming assets and stabilization of our loan portfolio, the timing and effectiveness of which cannot be assured. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in such efforts. HomeStreet, Inc. primarily relies on dividends from the Bank and payment of dividends by the Bank is restricted. HomeStreet, Inc. is a separate legal entity from the Bank, and although we do receive some dividends from HomeStreet Capital, the primary source of our funds from which we service our debt, pay dividends and 26 Table of Contents otherwise satisfy our obligations is dividends from the Bank. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations, as well as by our informal supervisory agreement with the FDIC and DFI. If the Bank cannot pay dividends to us, we may be limited in our ability to service our debts and fund operations. HomeStreet is prohibited from paying cash dividends under current regulatory orders and certain contractual agreements. The Company is currently operating under a cease and desist order issued by its primary regulator which prohibits the Company from, among other things, making cash dividends or distributions to shareholders. In addition, we have elected to defer the payment of interest on each of our four outstanding series of trust preferred securities, or TruPS, and pursuant to the indentures governing those debt instruments, we are prohibited from declaring or paying cash dividends or distributions, or redeeming, repurchasing, acquiring or making any liquidation payments with respect to any of our capital stock, until we are current on our interest payments under the TruPS. We have the right under the indenture to continue to defer our interest payments on the TruPS until December 15, 2013. These restrictions on our ability to declare or make cash dividends may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business. During the period from early 2008 through most of 2011, the United States economy in general, and the financial institutions sector in particular, experienced a severe downturn owing to a number of factors that affected virtually every aspect of our business. While these conditions appear to have moderated to some degree, there remains considerable uncertainty that continues to affect our business, and that raises significant risk as to our ability to return to sustained profitability. In particular, we may face risks related to market conditions that may negatively impact our business opportunities and plans, such as: • uncertainty related to increased regulation and aggressive governmental enforcement in the financial sector, including increased costs of compliance; • the models we use to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may become less reliable in predicting future behaviors which may impair our ability to effectively make underwriting decisions; • challenges in accurately estimating the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans if our forecasts of economic conditions and other economic predictions are not accurate; • further increases in FDIC insurance premiums due to additional depletion of that agency’s insurance funds; • restrictions in our ability to engage in routine funding transactions due to the commercial soundness of other financial institutions and government sponsored entities; and • increased competition from further consolidation in the financial services industry. If recovery from the economic recession slows or if we experience another recessionary dip, our ability to access capital and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. An important information technology systems provider was recently identified as having internal control deficiencies, which could give rise to significant risks to the Bank and the Company. We were recently notified that the provider of one of the Bank’s critical information technology and transaction processing systems has been identified as posing a significant risk to banking operations for that vendor’s clients. That vendor has been criticized for, among other things, an unsatisfactory risk management system, the lack of a compliance culture and a lack of internal controls. That vendor has encountered a significant 27 Table of Contents cyberattack and related computer fraud, and there have been indications that in the absence of a prompt remediation of known and unknown deficiencies, that vendor’s systems may create enhanced risk for users. The Bank does not use this system that was the subject of the cyberattack; however, the Bank uses this vendor for a wide variety of important functions, and prior to the identification of these issues, we had planned to increase our reliance on this vendor and its products and services. Our board of directors, as well as the Bank’s board of directors, have been briefed on this development and management is actively seeking ways in which to assess and mitigate any enhanced risks to the Bank and to our customers. However, if these concerns are not addressed promptly, the Bank could experience a number of potentially materially adverse consequences, including: • greater than normal exposure to compliance problems, which could lead to adverse regulatory actions, including potential enforcement actions; • the need to replace one or more of our information systems providers, which could lead to increased costs, disruptions in our relationships with one or more customers, management distractions, and other difficulties; • potential claims by customers, including class action claims, resulting from actual or alleged compromises of consumer or business financial information; • difficulties in maintaining an adequate system of internal controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting; • the loss of confidence of one or more of our customers, or reputational harm associated with the use of these systems, particularly if our customers experience actual difficulties, losses or attacks; and • a dispute with this vendor over the adequacy of the products and services for which we contracted, potentially including increases in legal fees and other litigation costs. Adverse economic conditions in the Pacific Northwest and Hawaii have caused us to incur losses in the past and may cause us to incur losses in the future. Our mortgage banking and retail and commercial banking operations are currently concentrated in the Puget Sound area of Washington, and to a lesser extent, the Vancouver, Washington and Portland, Oregon regions and Hawaii. We also have lending offices in Spokane and Aberdeen, Washington, and Salem, Oregon. In addition, we expect to expand by approximately 13 mortgage origination offices in Washington and Idaho to accommodate mortgage personnel that we hired during the first quarter of 2012. Deterioration in economic conditions in these markets, including decreasing real estate values and sales and high levels of unemployment and commercial real estate vacancy rates, have had and may continue to have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services. In particular, the economic slowdown in our markets has resulted in many of the following conditions, which have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business: • an increase in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures; • a decline in the demand for products and services, including reduction in the volume of our single family purchase loan transactions and commercial real estate loan transactions; • a decline in the value of loan collateral, especially real estate, which in turn may reduce customers’ borrowing power; • a decline in the demand for loans; and • a decline in the origination of loans, especially residential construction, income property and business banking loans. Each of these conditions has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including but not limited to a decrease in fee income and net interest income. 28 Table of Contents In addition, as a result of the significant deterioration in economic conditions in our markets, our loan portfolio suffered substantial deterioration during the recent economic decline, and these conditions continue to impact our asset quality. Total “classified assets,” which comprise the outstanding balance of all loans classified as substandard or doubtful and the carrying value of all other real estate owned (“OREO”), totaled $363.9 million, or 14.6% of total assets, as of December 31, 2010 and $188.2 million, or 8.3% of total assets as of December 31, 2011. We had an additional $153.3 million, or 6.8% of total assets that we classified as “special mention” as of December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011, our nonaccrual loans totaled $113.2 million, or 7.1%, and $76.5 million, or 5.7% of loans held for investment, respectively. No assurance can be given that additional loans will not be added to “classified” or “special mention” status or that existing classified or special mention loans will not migrate into lower classifications, either of which would require us to recognize additional provisions for loan losses. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we can foreclose on and sell real estate collateral without incurring additional losses. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from residential mortgage lending which is a market sector that has experienced significant volatility. Approximately 69.0%, 66.0% and 58.1% of our consolidated revenues (interest income plus noninterest income) in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were derived from originating, selling and servicing residential mortgages, and 29.0%, 28.5% and 24.9% of our consolidated total assets as of the end of each of those periods, respectively, represented residential mortgage loans held for investment. In addition, in the first quarter of 2012 we significantly expanded our single family mortgage loan operation, which we expect will further increase the percentage of our revenue derived from residential mortgage lending, thereby increasing our exposure to risks in that sector. Residential mortgage lending in general has experienced substantial volatility in recent years, and each of our primary geographic market areas has recorded more significant declines in real estate values and higher levels of foreclosures and mortgage defaults than the national averages for those statistical categories. Were these trends to be protracted or exacerbated, our financial condition and result of operations may be affected materially and adversely. The significant concentration of real estate secured loans in our portfolio has had and may continue to have a negative impact on our asset quality and profitability as a result of continued or worsening conditions on the real estate market and higher than normal delinquency and default rates. Substantially all of our loans are secured by real property. As of December 31, 2011, 95.6% of all of our outstanding loans, totaling $1.29 billion, were secured by real estate, including $496.9 million in single family residential loans, $402.1 million in commercial real estate loans (including $102.4 million in owner-occupied loans underwritten based on the cash flows of the business), $56.4 million in multifamily residential loans, $173.4 million in construction and land development loans and $158.9 million in home equity loans. Our real estate secured lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels difficult to predict. Declines in real estate sales and prices, as well as the adverse impacts of the economic slowdown and recession and an associated increase in unemployment, have resulted in higher than expected loan delinquencies and foreclosures, problem loans and OREO, net charge-offs and provisions for credit and OREO losses. We may continue to incur losses and may suffer additional adverse impacts to our capital ratios and our business. If the significant decline in market values continues, the collateral for our loans will provide less security and our ability to recover the principal, interest and costs due on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, leaving us more likely to suffer additional losses on defaulted loans. Such declines may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose loan portfolios are more diversified. 29 Table of Contents Continued or worsening conditions in the real estate market and higher than normal delinquency and default rates on loans could cause other adverse consequences for us, including: • the reduction of cash flows and capital resources, as we are required to make cash advances to meet contractual obligations to investors, process foreclosures, and maintain, repair and market foreclosed properties; • declining mortgage servicing fee revenues because we recognize these revenues only upon collection; • increasing loan servicing costs; • declining fair value on our mortgage servicing rights; and • declining fair values and liquidity of securities held in our investment portfolio that are collateralized by mortgage obligations. Our loans held for investment have historically been concentrated in construction and residential land acquisition, development and construction loans, which have a higher risk of loss than residential mortgage loans, and we have experienced increased delinquencies and loan losses related to those loans. Construction and residential land acquisition, development and construction loans (“ADC loans”) represented 12.9%, 17.7% and 30.3% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Such loans represented 63.3%, 58.3% and 79.1% of our nonperforming loans at those dates. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, 52.9%, 82.5% and 80.7% of our charge-offs came from construction and ADC loans. If current downward trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses from these loans. An increase in our delinquencies and credit losses would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Our allowance for loan losses may prove inadequate or we may be negatively affected by credit risk exposures. Future additions to our allowance for loan losses will reduce our earnings. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. As with most financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for defaults and nonperformance, which represents management’s best estimate of probable incurred losses inherent in the loan portfolio. Management’s estimate is the result of our continuing evaluation of specific credit risks and loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions, industry concentrations and other factors that may indicate future loan losses. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Generally, our nonperforming loans and OREO reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers and weaknesses in the economies of the markets we serve. This allowance may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, our nonperforming assets (which include OREO) were $115.1 million, or 5.1%, and $283.7 million, or 11.4%, respectively, of our total assets. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, nonperforming loans totaled $76.5 million, or 5.7%, and $113.2 million, or 7.1%, respectively, of our total loan portfolio. In addition, we had $35.8 million at December 31, 2011 and $43.5 million at December 31, 2010 in loans that were 90 or more days past due and still held on accrual status and $27.6 million at December 31, 2011 and $21.6 million at December 31, 2010 in loans 30 to 89 days delinquent. We may continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in nonperforming assets. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans, which adversely affects our income. Additionally, higher levels of nonperforming assets increase our loan administration and legal expenses. 30 Table of Contents In addition, when we take possession of collateral through foreclosure or other similar proceedings, we are required to record the related collateral at the then fair value of the collateral less selling costs, which may result in a loss. Nonperforming assets increase our risk profile and the level of capital we and our regulators believe is adequate in light of such risks. Impairment of the value of these assets, the value of the underlying collateral, the liquidity and net worth of guarantors, or our borrowers’ performance or financial conditions, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business, results of operations and financial condition. See discussion below regarding additional risks associated with other real estate owned. Our OREO may be subject to additional impairment and expense associated with ownership, and such properties may ultimately be sold at below appraised values. Real estate owned by the Bank and not used in the ordinary course of its operations is referred to as other real estate owned, or OREO. We foreclose on and take title to the real estate collateral for defaulted loans as part of our business. We obtain appraisals on these assets prior to taking title to the properties and periodically thereafter. However, due to continuing deterioration in the market prices for real estate in our markets, there can be no assurance that such valuations will reflect the amount which may be paid by a willing purchaser in an arms-length transaction at the time of the final sale. Moreover, we can give no assurances that the losses associated with OREO will not exceed the estimated amounts, which would adversely affect future results of our operations. The calculation for the adequacy of write-downs of our OREO is based on several factors, including the appraised value of the real property, economic conditions in the property’s sub-market, comparable sales, current buyer demand, availability of financing, entitlement and development obligations and costs and historic loss experience. All of these factors have caused further write-downs in recent periods and can change without notice based on market and economic conditions. In addition, our earnings may be affected by various expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance, taxes, completion and repair costs and other costs associated with property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with assets that are tied up in OREO. Moreover, our ability to sell OREO properties is affected by public perception that banks are inclined to accept large discounts from market value in order to quickly liquidate properties. Any decrease in market prices may lead to OREO write-downs, with a corresponding expense in our statement of operations. Further write-downs on OREO or an inability to sell OREO properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the management and resolution of nonperforming assets, which include OREO, increases our noninterest expense and requires significant commitments of time from our management and directors, which can detract from the performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience further increases in nonperforming assets in the future. Our underwriting practices may not have adequately captured the risk inherent in our loan portfolio and our past underwriting practices may result in loans that expose us to a greater risk of loss. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices will often include analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of collateral; obtaining personal guarantees of loans to businesses; and verification of liquid assets. If our underwriting process fails to capture accurate information or proves to be inadequate, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and those losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in the allowance for loan losses. Prior to the revision of our lending policies in September 2008 we granted numerous exceptions to our loan-to-value limits, and our current aggregate loan-to-value exceptions remain elevated, although within regulatory guidelines. During 2008 we began originating up to 100.0% loan-to-value loans to qualifying consumers to purchase select properties on which we held a construction lien and also converted some of our construction loans to permanent investor rental property loans, many of which are high loan-to-value ratios. We also originated first mortgage loans and a concurrent purchase money second mortgages with a combined loan-to-value ratio of up to 31 Table of Contents 100.0% for purchase borrowers on select properties. In addition, certain of our home equity lines of credit may have, when added to existing senior lien balances, a post-funding combined loan-to-value ratio of greater than 100.0% of the value of the property securing the loan. Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios are more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. A substantial amount of our residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit also have adjustable interest rates, and these loans may experience a higher rate of default in a rising interest rate environment. In addition, loans with high combined loan-to-values may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses. In declining real estate or rental markets, investor property borrowers may not have the incentive to carry the burden of negative cash flow and thus may have higher default rates. We are actively working to reduce our concentrations of those loans with a higher risk of default; however, we are still subject to an increased exposure of loss due to those loans. We may incur significant losses as a result of ineffective hedging of interest rate risk related to our single family loans held for sale. The value our mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”) changes with fluctuations in interest rates, among other things, reflecting the changing expectations of mortgage prepayment activity. To mitigate potential losses of fair value of MSRs related to changes in interest rates, we actively hedge this risk with derivative financial instruments. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models, experienced and skilled personnel and continual monitoring. As it would be both impracticable and economically infeasible to hedge away substantially all of our interest rate risk, we do not seek to hedge this risk completely. Changes in the value of our hedging instruments may not correlate with changes in the value of our MSRs, and we could incur a net valuation loss as a result of our hedging activities, because our hedging strategy or instruments are imperfect, or both. Prior to January 2010, we valued our MSRs at the lower of cost or market value. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, we recognized net MSR/hedge gains and (losses) of $1.7 million, $1.7 million, $5.4 million and $(4.7 million), respectively. In January 2010, we elected to value our MSRs at fair value which we believe has enabled more effective hedging strategies. In 2010 and 2011, we recognized net MSR/hedge gains of $4.3 million and $13.4 million, respectively. Following the expansion of our single family mortgage operations in early 2012 through the addition of a significant number of single family mortgage origination personnel, we expect the volume of our MSRs to increase which will increase our exposure to the risks associated with the impact of interest rate fluctuations on MSRs. The fair value of our single family mortgage servicing rights is subject to substantial interest rate risk. A substantial portion of our single family loans are sold into the secondary market. We are exposed to the risk of decreases in the fair value of our single family loans held for sale as a result of changes in interest rates. We use derivative financial instruments to hedge this risk; however our hedging strategies, techniques and judgments may not be effective and may not anticipate every event that would affect the fair value of our single family loans held for sale. Our inability to effectively reduce the risk of fluctuations in the fair value of our single family loans could negatively affect our results of operations due to decreases in the fair value of these assets. Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities. In the course of our business, it is necessary to foreclose and take title to real estate, which could subject us to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. Hazardous substances or waste, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof may be discovered on properties during our ownership or after a sale to a third party. We could be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at such properties. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial and could substantially exceed the value of the real property. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may 32 Table of Contents be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. We may be unable to recover costs from any third party. These occurrences may materially reduce the value of the affected property, and we may find it difficult or impossible to use or sell the property prior to or following any environmental remediation. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we breach any of the representations or warranties we make to a purchaser when we sell mortgage loans, we may be liable to the purchaser for unpaid principal and interest on the loan. When we sell mortgage loans in the ordinary course of business, we are required to make certain representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our loan sale agreements require us to repurchase mortgage loans if we have breached any of these representations or warranties, in which case we may be required to repurchase such loan and/or bear any subsequent loss on the loan. We may not have any remedies available to us against a third party for such losses, or the remedies available to us may not be as broad as the remedies available to the purchaser of the mortgage loan against us. In addition, if there are remedies against a third party available to us, we face further risk that such third party may not have the financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available to us. Therefore, if a purchaser enforces remedies against us, we may not be able to recover our losses from a third party and may be required to bear the full amount of the related loss. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. If we breach any representations and warranties or fail to follow guidelines when originating a FHA/HUD insured loan or a VA guaranteed loan, we may lose the insurance or guarantee on the loan and suffer losses and/or pay penalties. We originate and purchase, sell and thereafter service single family loans that are insured by FHA/HUD or guaranteed by the Veterans’ Administration, or VA. We certify to FHA/HUD and VA that the loans meet their requirements and guidelines. The FHA/HUD and VA audit loans that are insured or guaranteed under their programs, including audits of our processes and procedures as well as individual loan documentation. Violations of guidelines can result in monetary penalties or require us to provide indemnifications against loss or loans declared ineligible for their programs. In the past, monetary penalties and losses from indemnifications have not created material losses to the Bank. As a result of the housing crisis, FHA/HUD has stepped up enforcement initiatives. In addition to regular FHA/HUD audits, HUD’s Inspector General has become active in enforcing FHA regulations with respect to individual loans and has partnered with the Department of Justice (DOJ) in filing lawsuits against lenders for systemic violations. The penalties resulting from such lawsuits can be much more severe, since systemic violations can be applied to groups of loans and penalties may be subject to treble damages. The DOJ has used the Federal False Claims Act in prosecuting these lawsuits. Because of our significant origination of FHA/HUD insured and VA guaranteed loans, if the DOJ were to find potential violations by the Bank, we could be subject to material monetary penalties and/or losses, and may even be subject to lawsuits alleging systemic violations which could result in treble damages. We may face risk of loss if we purchase loans from a seller that fails to satisfy its indemnification obligations. We generally receive representations and warranties from the originators and sellers from whom we purchase loans and servicing rights such that if a loan defaults and there has been a breach of such representations and warranties, we may be able to pursue a remedy against the seller of the loan for the unpaid principal and interest on the defaulted loan. However, if the originator and/or seller breaches such representations and warranties and does not have the financial capacity to pay the related damages, we may be subject to the risk of loss for such loan as the originator or seller may not be able to pay such damages or repurchase loans when called upon by us to do so. Currently, we only purchase loans from Windermere Mortgage Services Series LLC, a joint venture with certain Windermere real estate brokerage franchise owners. 33 Table of Contents The proposed restructuring of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and changes in existing government-sponsored and federal mortgage programs could negatively affect our business. We originate and purchase, sell and thereafter service single family and multifamily mortgages under the Fannie Mae, and to a lesser extent the Freddie Mac, single family purchase programs and the Fannie Mae multifamily Delegated Underwriting and Servicing™, or DUS, program. These activities represented 72.1%, 67.5% and 59.9% of our consolidated revenues (interest income plus noninterest income) for the years ended 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Since the nationwide downturn in residential mortgage lending that began in 2007 and the placement of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship, Congress and various executive branch agencies have offered a wide range of proposals aimed at restructuring these agencies. None of these proposals have yet been defined with any specificity, and so we cannot predict how any such initiative would impact our business. However, any restructuring of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that restricts their loan repurchase programs may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Moreover, we have recorded on our balance sheet an intangible asset relating to our right to service single and multifamily loans sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. That asset was valued at $77.3 million and $87.2 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Changes in Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s policies and operations that adversely affect our single family residential loan and DUS mortgage servicing assets may require us to record impairment charges to the value of these assets, and significant impairment charges could be material and adversely affect our business. Through our wholly owned subsidiary Home Street Capital Corporation, we participate as a lender in the Fannie Mae Delegated Underwriting and Servicing program, or DUS. Fannie Mae delegates responsibility for originating, underwriting and servicing mortgages, and we assume a limited portion of the risk of loss during the remaining term on each commercial mortgage loan that we sell to Fannie Mae. In the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we originated $125.7 million and $55.8 million in loans through the DUS program, respectively. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are under conservatorship with the Federal Housing Finance Agency. On February 11, 2011, the Obama administration presented Congress with a report titled “Reforming America’s Housing Finance Market, A Report to Congress,” outlining its proposals for reforming America’s housing finance market with the goal of scaling back the role of the U.S. government in, and promoting the return of private capital to, the mortgage markets and ultimately winding down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Without mentioning a specific time frame, the report calls for the reduction of the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the mortgage markets by, among other things, reducing conforming loan limits, increasing guarantee fees and requiring larger down payments by borrowers. The report presents three options for the long-term structure of housing finance, all of which call for the unwinding of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and a reduced role of the government in the mortgage market. We cannot be certain if or when Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will be wound down, if or when reform of the housing finance market will be implemented or what the future role of the U.S. government will be in the mortgage market, and, accordingly, we will not be able to determine the impact that any such reform may have on us until a definitive reform plan is adopted. In addition, our ability to generate income through mortgage sales to institutional investors depends in part on programs sponsored by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, which facilitate the issuance of mortgage-backed securities in the secondary market. Some of these programs have been reduced in recent periods due to current economic conditions, and the size of loans that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can guarantee declined as of October 1, 2011. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction in, the operation of those programs could have a material adverse effect on our loan origination and mortgage sales as well as our results of operations. Also, any significant adverse change in the level of activity in the secondary market or the underwriting criteria of these entities could negatively impact our results of business, operations and cash flows. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes a requirement that private securitizers of mortgage and other asset backed securities retain, subject to certain exemptions, not less than five percent of the credit risk of the mortgages or other assets backing the securities. 34 Table of Contents The lending qualification and limits of FHA and VA may also be subject to changes that may limit our origination of loans guaranteed or insured by the agencies in the future. A significant portion of our residential mortgage origination volume is derived from FHA and VA lending programs. Housing finance reform legislation decreased FHA loan limits effective October 1, 2011 from $567,500 to $506,000 in our primary markets in King, Pierce and Snohomish Counties, still substantially above the limit of $417,000 that existed prior to February 2009. FHA loan limits also decreased for other markets in which we operate. The FHA mutual mortgage insurance premiums changed in April 2011, with the premium collected at closing or financed in the loan amount decreasing from 2.25% to 1.00%, while the annual premium increased from 0.55% to 1.15%. As a result, conventional financing has become more affordable and more attractive relative to FHA financing for high loan-to-value borrowers who can afford the 5.0% minimum down payment required for conventional loans. While it is too soon to know what the long-term impacts of this legislation will be on our business, our FHA loan production was down slightly in the second half of 2011 when compared to the overall trend for 2011. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect the value of our assets and reduce our net interest income and noninterest income thereby adversely affecting our earnings and profitability. Our earnings are highly dependent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates impact the rates earned on loans and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. In addition, changes to market interest rates may impact the level of loans, deposits and investments and the credit quality of existing loans. Changes in interest rates also affect demand for our residential loan products and the revenue realized on the sale of loans. A decrease in the volume of loans sold can decrease our revenues and net income. These rates may be affected by many factors beyond our control, including general and economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Changes in interest rates may negatively impact our ability to attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest rate spreads, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in interest rates may reduce our mortgage revenues, which would negatively impact our noninterest income. Our securities portfolio includes securities that are insured or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies or government-sponsored enterprises and other securities that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. The unrealized gains or losses in our available-for-sale portfolio are reported as a separate component of shareholders’ equity until realized upon sale. As a result, future interest rate fluctuations may impact shareholders’ equity, causing material fluctuations from quarter to quarter. Failure to hold our securities until maturity or until market conditions are favorable for a sale could adversely affect our financial condition. A significant portion of our noninterest income is derived from originating residential mortgage loans and selling them into the secondary market. That business has benefited from a long period of historically low interest rates. To the extent interest rates rise, particularly if they rise substantially or quickly, we may experience a reduction in mortgage refinancing and financing of new home purchases. These factors may negatively affect our mortgage loan origination volume and adversely affect our noninterest income. Our mortgage servicing rights carry interest rate risk because the total amount of servicing fees earned, as well as changes in fair-market value, fluctuate based on expected loan prepayments (affecting the expected average life of a portfolio of residential mortgage servicing rights). The rate of prepayment of residential mortgage loans may be influenced by changing national and regional economic trends, such as recessions or depressed real estate markets, as well as the difference between interest rates on existing residential mortgage loans relative to prevailing residential mortgage rates. Changes in prepayment rates are therefore difficult for us to predict. An increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest and principal of their obligations. During periods of declining interest rates, many residential borrowers refinance their mortgage loans. The loan administration fee income related to the residential mortgage loan servicing rights corresponding to a mortgage loan deceases as mortgage loans are prepaid. Consequently, the fair value of portfolios of residential 35 Table of Contents mortgage loan servicing rights tend to decrease during periods of declining interest rates, because greater prepayments can be expected and, as a result, the amount of loan administration income received also decreases. We may be required to recognize impairment with respect to investment securities, including the FHLB stock we hold. Our securities portfolio currently includes securities with unrecognized losses. We may continue to observe declines in the fair market value of these securities. We evaluate the securities portfolio for any other than temporary impairment each reporting period. In addition, as a condition of membership in the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had stock in the FHLB totaling $37.0 million. Our FHLB stock is carried at cost and is subject to recoverability testing under applicable accounting standards. The FHLB has discontinued the repurchase of its stock and discontinued the distribution of dividends. Future negative changes to the financial condition of the FHLB may require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to such holdings. Inability to access and maintain liquidity could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity that would negatively impact our ability to fund continued loan growth and may negatively affect asset growth and, therefore, our earnings capability. The termination or restructuring of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac may have an adverse impact on our ability to fund and sell conventional loans and to generate loan fees and gains on sales and create servicing income. Our main sources of liquidity are loan sales, deposits, payments of principal and interest received on loans and investment securities. In addition, we also rely on borrowing lines with the FHLB and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, or FRBSF. However, the FHLB has discontinued the repurchase of its stock and discontinued the distribution of dividends. Based on the foregoing, there can be no assurance the FHLB will have sufficient resources to continue to fund our borrowings at their current levels. In the event of a deterioration in our financial conditions or a further downturn in the economy, particularly in the housing market, our ability to access these funding resources could be negatively affected, which could limit the funds available to us and make it difficult for us to maintain adequate funding for loan growth. In addition, our customers’ ability to raise capital and refinance maturing obligations could be adversely affected, resulting in a further unfavorable impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to difficulty or an inability to access additional funding sources. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. We are subject to extensive regulation that has restricted and could further restrict our activities, including capital distributions, and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities, including the FDIC, the DFI and the Federal Reserve, and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject are evolving and change frequently. Changes to those laws, rules and regulations are also sometimes retroactively applied. Furthermore, the on-site examination cycle for an institution in our circumstances is frequent and extensive. Examination 36 Table of Contents findings by the regulatory agencies may result in adverse consequences to the Company. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the authority to restrict our operations, adversely reclassify our assets, determine the level of deposit premiums assessed and require us to increase our allowance for loan losses. Legislative or regulatory action regarding foreclosures, forced mortgage principal reduction, or bankruptcy laws may negatively impact our business. Legislation and regulations have been proposed which, among other things, could allow judges to modify the terms of residential mortgages in bankruptcy proceedings and could hinder our ability to foreclose promptly on defaulted mortgage loans or expand assignee liability for certain violations in the mortgage loan origination process, any or all of which could adversely affect our business or result in our being held responsible for violations in the mortgage loan origination process. Congress and various regulatory authorities have proposed programs that would require a reduction in principal balances of “underwater” residential mortgages, which if implemented would tend to reduce loan servicing income and which might adversely affect the carrying values of portfolio loans. These legislative and regulatory proposals generally have focused primarily, if not exclusively, on residential mortgage origination, but we cannot offer assurances as to which, if any, of these initiatives may be adopted or, if adopted, to what extent they would affect our business. Any such initiatives may limit our ability to take actions that may be essential to preserve the value of the mortgage loans we service or hold for investment. Any restriction on our ability to foreclose on a loan, any requirement that we forego a portion of the amount otherwise due on a loan or any requirement that we modify any original loan terms may require us to advance principal, interest, tax and insurance payments, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Given the relatively high percentage of our business that derives from originating residential mortgages, any such actions are likely to have a significant impact on our business, and the effects we experience will likely be disproportionately high in comparison to financial institutions whose residential mortgage lending is more attenuated. We are unable to predict whether U.S. federal, state or local authorities, or other pertinent bodies, will enact legislation, laws, rules, regulations, handbooks, guidelines or similar provisions that will affect our business or require changes in our practices in the future, and any such changes could adversely affect our cost of doing business and profitability. See “Regulation and Supervision — Regulation and Supervision of HomeStreet Bank.” The Dodd-Frank Act is expected to increase our costs of operations and may have a material negative effect on us. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changes the laws as they apply to financial institutions and revises and expands the rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority of federal banking regulators. It is also expected to have a material impact on our relationships with current and future customers. Although the statute will have a greater impact on larger institutions than regional bank holding companies such as the Company, many of its provisions will apply to us. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act: • transfers supervision and regulation of HomeStreet, Inc. from the OTS to the Federal Reserve, which has stricter capital requirements for bank holding companies than those historically imposed on savings and loan holding companies, potentially limiting our ability to deploy our capital into earning assets, which would serve to limit our own earnings; • grants the FDIC back-up supervisory authority with respect to depository institution holding companies that engage in conduct that poses a foreseeable and material risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund and heightens the Federal Reserve’s authority to examine, prescribe regulations and take action with respect to all subsidiaries of a bank holding company; • prohibits insured state-chartered banks such as ours from engaging in certain derivatives transactions unless the chartering state’s lending limit laws take into consideration credit exposure to derivatives transactions; 37 Table of Contents • subjects both large and small financial institutions to data and information gathering by a newly created Office of Financial Research; • creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau given rulemaking, examination and enforcement authority over consumer protection matters and contains provisions on mortgage-related matters such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrowers’ ability to repay and prepayment penalties; and • imposes certain corporate governance and executive compensation standards that may increase costs of operation and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain management. Some of these changes are effective immediately, though many are being phased in gradually. In addition, the statute in many instances calls for regulatory rulemaking to implement its provisions, not all of which have been completed, so the precise contours of the law and its effects on us cannot yet be fully understood. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the subsequent exercise by regulators of their revised and expanded powers thereunder could materially and negatively impact the profitability of our business, the value of assets we hold or the collateral available for our loans, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses and expose us to additional costs, taxes, liabilities, enforcement actions and reputational risk. The short-term and long-term impacts of the new Basel III capital standards and the forthcoming new capital rules to be proposed for non-Basel III U.S. banks is uncertain. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee) recently adopted new standards that could lead to significantly higher capital requirements, higher capital charges, a cap on the level of mortgage servicing rights that can be included in capital, and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios. These new Basel III capital standards will be phased in from January 1, 2013 until January 1, 2019, and it is not yet known how these standards will be implemented by U.S. regulators or applied to community banks of our size and their holding companies. Implementation of these standards, or any other new regulations, might adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or require us to reduce business levels or raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The rapid expansion of our single family mortgage loan operations could pose a challenge if we are not able to successfully integrate our new hires and new offices, and could require significant resources or divert our management’s attention. The rapid expansion of our single family mortgage loan operations through the hiring of a substantial number of mortgage loan personnel previously affiliated with MetLife Home Loans will involve significant expense and expose us to potential additional risks, including the expense of hiring and training a large number of new employees, costs associated with opening new stand-alone loan offices to provide for the new employees, diversion of management’s attention from the daily operations of the business and the potential loss of other key employees. We cannot guarantee that these costs will be fully offset by increased revenue generated by the expansion in this business line in the near future, or at all. The strength and stability of other financial institutions may adversely affect our business. Our counterparty risk exposure is affected by the actions and creditworthiness of other financial institutions with which we do business. Negative impacts to our counterparty financial institutions could affect our ability to engage in routine funding transactions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Many of these types of transactions can expose us to credit risk in the event of default by a direct or indirect counterparty or client. If other financial institutions in our markets dispose of real estate collateral at below-market or distressed prices, such actions may increase our losses and have a material adverse effect our financial condition and results of operations. 38 Table of Contents Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and we use estimates in determining the fair value of certain of our assets, which estimates may prove to be imprecise and result in significant changes in valuation. A portion of our assets are carried on the balance sheet at fair value, including investment securities available for sale, mortgage servicing rights related to single family loans and single family loans held for sale. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or internal valuation models that utilize observable market data inputs to estimate their fair value. In certain cases, observable market prices and data may not be readily available or their availability may be diminished due to market conditions. We use financial models to value certain of these assets. These models are complex and use asset-specific collateral data and market inputs for interest rates. Although we have processes and procedures in place governing internal valuation models and their testing and calibration, such assumptions are complex as we must make judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Different assumptions could result in significant changes in valuation, which in turn could affect earnings or result in significant changes in the dollar amount of assets reported on the balance sheet. Our operations could be interrupted if our third-party service and technology providers experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking regulations. We depend, and will continue to depend, to a significant extent, on a number of relationships with third-party service and technology providers. Specifically, we receive core systems processing, essential web hosting and other Internet systems and deposit and other processing services from third-party service providers. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services and we are unable to replace them with other service providers, our operations could be interrupted and our operating expenses may be materially increased. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our business financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many national vendors provide turn-key services to community banks, such as internet banking and remote deposit capture that allow smaller banks to compete with institutions that have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able, however, to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. In addition, because of the demand for technology-driven products, banks are increasingly contracting with outside vendors to provide data processing and core banking functions. The use of technology-related products, services, delivery channels and processes exposes a bank to various risks, particularly transaction, strategic, reputation and compliance risks. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage the risks associated with our increased dependency on technology. The network and computer systems on which we depend could fail or experience a security breach. Our computer systems could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Because we conduct a part of our business over the Internet and outsource several critical functions to third parties, operations will depend on our ability, as well as the ability of third-party service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical break-ins or similar catastrophic events. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 39 Table of Contents In addition, a significant barrier to online financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our Internet banking system relies on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms our third-party service providers use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The cost of additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls in order to satisfy our new public company reporting requirements will increase our expenses. We expect that the obligations of being a public company, including the substantial public reporting obligations and compliance with related regulations, will require significant expenditures and place additional demands on our management team. Compliance with these rules will, among other things, require us to assess our internal controls and procedures and evaluate our accounting systems. We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations as a public company. However, the measures we take may not be sufficient to satisfy these obligations. In addition, we have hired, and may need to hire further additional compliance, accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical knowledge, and we may not be able to do so in a timely fashion. As a result, we may need to rely on outside consultants to provide these services for us until qualified personnel are hired. These obligations will increase our operating expenses, although we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur in order to comply with these requirements, and could divert our management’s attention from our operations. An interruption in or breach of our information systems could impair our ability to originate loans on a timely basis and may result in lost business. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our lending business. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of our information systems or the third-party information systems that we rely on could cause delays in our operations. We cannot assure you that no failures or interruptions will occur or, if they do occur, that we or the third parties on which we rely will adequately address them. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal, state and local consumer lending laws may restrict our ability to originate or increase our risk of liability with respect to certain mortgage loans and could increase our cost of doing business. Federal, state and local laws have been adopted that are intended to eliminate certain lending practices considered “predatory.” These laws prohibit practices such as steering borrowers away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, repeatedly refinancing loans, and making loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans irrespective of the value of the underlying property. It is our policy not to make predatory loans, but these laws create the potential for liability with respect to our lending, servicing and loan investment activities. They increase our cost of doing business, and ultimately may prevent us from making certain loans and cause us to reduce the average percentage rate or the points and fees on loans that we do make. 40 Table of Contents Some provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions of Washington law may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our shareholders to sell their shares at a favorable price. Some provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of deterring or delaying attempts by our shareholders to remove or replace management, to commence proxy contests, or to effect changes in control. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors so that only approximately one third of our board of directors is elected each year; • elimination of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • procedures for advance notification of shareholder nominations and proposals; • the ability of our board of directors to amend our bylaws without shareholder approval; and • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval upon the terms and conditions and with the rights, privileges and preferences as the board of directors may determine. In addition, as a Washington corporation, we are subject to Washington law which imposes restrictions on some transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. We have deferred payment of the interest on our outstanding TruPS for each quarter since December 15, 2008 and, accordingly, we are prohibited from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on, and from making liquidation payments with respect to, our common stock. There are currently four separate series of the TruPS outstanding, each issued under a separate indenture and with a separate guarantee. Each of these indentures, together with the related guarantee, prohibits us, subject to limited exceptions, from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on, or redeeming, repurchasing, acquiring or making any liquidation payments with respect to, any of our capital stock at any time when (a) there is an event of default under such indenture (including a default that will occur solely with passage of time); (b) we are in default with respect to payment of any obligations under such guarantee; or (c) we have deferred payment of interest on the debentures outstanding under that indenture. We are entitled, at our option but subject to certain conditions, to defer payments of interest on each series of debentures from time to time for up to five years. Events of default under each indenture generally consist of our failure to pay interest on the TruPS (except in certain circumstances, including a deferral of interest described in (c) above), our failure to pay any principal of, or premium, if any, on, such TruPS when due, our failure to comply with certain covenants under such indenture, and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or liquidation relating to us or, in some cases certain of our significant subsidiaries. Because we have deferred payments of interest on each series of the TruPS, we are prohibited by the indentures from declaring or paying any dividends on our common stock, repurchasing or otherwise acquiring our common stock and making any payments to holders of our common stock in the event of our liquidation. These restrictions, which will continue until we are current on interest payments with respect to these indentures, may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. This will cause us to incur increasing interest expense as deferred interest payments are capitalized to principal and may limit our ability to raise additional capital. Although management currently believes the Company has adequate capital to pay the deferred interest on the TruPS when it becomes due, if there are significant changes in our financial condition prior to that time or if we subsequently lack adequate capital to pay future interest payments on these securities, we may need to raise 41 Table of Contents additional capital to provide liquidity at the Company for the payment of future interest on TruPS, either from distributions from the Bank or external sources. Moreover, without notice to or consent from the holders of our common stock, we may issue additional series of TruPS in the future with terms similar to those of the existing debentures, or enter into other financing agreements that limit our ability to purchase or to pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock, including our common stock. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 