Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves risk. You should carefully consider the following risks as well as the other information included in this Annual Report, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our financial statements and related notes, before investing in our securities. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and cause the value of our securities to decline, which could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our Company. Risks Related to Our Business Our success depends on revenue from online advertising and the sale of financial lead products. We have historically derived, and we expect to continue to derive, the majority of our revenue through the sale of advertising impressions, financial product leads and clicks and calls on our online network. Any factors that limit the amount our customers are willing to and do spend on advertising with us, or to purchase leads from us, could have a material adverse effect on our business. These factors may include our ability to: · maintain a significant number of unique website visitors and corresponding significant reach of Internet and mobile visitors; · successfully convert visitors to some of our websites or mobile applications into credit card applicants and maintain a significant rate at which credit card applications initiated through some of our websites or mobile applications are approved by our credit card issuer customers; · successfully convert consumers’ visits to some of our websites or mobile applications into transaction fees and/or revenue from banks, mortgage brokers, or insurance agents or carriers; · maintain and increase our relationships with third-party insurance lead sources and maintain the quality of our lead product sourced from third parties; · compete with alternative advertising sources; · maintain a significant number of sellable impressions generated from website visitors available to advertisers; · accurately measure the number and demographic characteristics of our visitors; · successfully sell and market our online network to our customers, including mortgage loan, credit card and insurance product providers; · handle temporary high volume traffic spikes to our online network; · convince traditional media advertisers to advertise on our online network; · increase traffic to our online network; and · acquire and generate insurance leads. Most of our customer contracts are short-term and are subject to termination by the customer at any time and/or do not have any minimum purchase requirements. Customers who have longer-term contracts may fail to honor their existing contracts, fail to renew their contracts or reduce their purchase volume under those contracts. If a significant number of customers or a few large customers decide not to continue advertising with us or purchasing our lead products, or materially reduce such activities, we could experience an immediate and substantial decline in our revenues over a relatively short period of time. In addition, a failure to successfully execute on our strategy within our consumer insurance lead generation products, including without limitation our initiative to continue to improve and maintain the quality of our consumer insurance lead products, could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. We face intense competitive pressures that may harm our operating results. We face intense competition in all our businesses, and we expect competition to remain intense in the future. We compete with, among others, search engines utilizing keyword cost-per-click advertising or comparison advertising sites/networks; lead aggregators and websites committed to specific personal finance products; numerous websites in each of our vertical categories competing for traffic and for advertisers; financial institutions, including mortgage lenders, deposit institutions, insurance providers and credit card 16 Table of Contents issuers, many of whom are also our customers; and traditional offline personal finance marketing channels, including direct mail, retail bank branch networks, television, radio, print advertising and call centers. Some of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we do and could use those resources to develop more directly competitive product offerings and editorial content and undertake advertising campaigns to promote those new offerings and content, which could result in diminished traffic to our websites and reduce our overall competitive and market position. In addition, new competitors may enter this market as there are few barriers to entry. For example, Google has recently begun presenting comparisons of credit cards through its search engine, and in the past has presented and in the future may present comparisons of mortgage, insurance, or deposit rates through its search engine, which may divert consumers away from our websites, including consumers who would otherwise find, be directed or be linked to our websites through the Google search engine. If one of those competitors was successful in such efforts, it could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and prospects. Our online competitors may adopt certain aspects of our business model or replicate the appearance and features of our website, which could reduce our ability to differentiate our services. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. Many competitors have complementary products or services that drive traffic to their websites. In the future, competitors could introduce superior products and services or reduce prices below ours. Increased competition could result in lower website traffic, advertising rate reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which would adversely affect our business and operating results. We depend upon Internet search engines to attract a significant portion of the visitors to our websites, and any change in the prominence of our websites in either paid or algorithmic search result listings could cause the number of visitors to our websites and our revenue to decline. We depend in significant part on various Internet search engines, such as Google, Bing and Yahoo!, and other search websites to direct a significant number of visitors to our websites to provide our online services to our clients. Search websites typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and paid listings. Algorithmic, or organic, listings are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas designed by search companies. Paid listings can be purchased and then are displayed if particular words are included in a user’s Internet search. Placement in paid listings is generally not determined solely on the bid price, but also takes into account the search engines’ assessment of the quality of the website featured in the paid listing and other factors. We rely on both algorithmic and paid search results, as well as advertising on other websites, to direct a substantial share of the visitors to our websites. Our ability to maintain the number of visitors to our websites from Internet search websites and other websites is not entirely within our control. For example, Internet search websites frequently revise their algorithms in an attempt to optimize their search result listings or to maintain their internal standards and strategies. Changes in the algorithms could cause our websites to receive less favorable placements, which could reduce the number of users who visit our websites. We have experienced and continue to experience fluctuations in the search result rankings for a number of our websites. In addition, the prominence of the placement of our advertisements is in part determined by the amount we are willing to pay for the advertisement. We bid against our competitors for the display of paid search engine advertisements and some of our competitors have greater resources with which to bid and better brand recognition than we have. If competition for the display of paid advertisements in response to search terms related to our online services increases, our online advertising expenses could rise significantly or we may be required to reduce the number of our paid search advertisements. If we were to reduce our advertising with search engines, our consumer traffic may significantly decline or we may be unable to maintain a cost-effective search engine marketing program. Other factors, such as search engine technical difficulties, search engine technical changes and technical or presentation changes we make to our websites, could also cause our websites to be listed less prominently in algorithmic search results. In addition, search engines retain broad discretion to remove from search results any company whose marketing practices are deemed to be inconsistent with the search engine’s guidelines. If our marketing practices do not comply with search engine guidelines, we may, without warning, not appear in search result listings at all. Any adverse effect on the placement of our websites in search engine results could reduce the number of users who visit our websites. In turn, any reduction in the number of visitors to our websites would negatively affect our ability to earn revenue. If visits to our websites decrease, our revenue may decline or we may need to resort to more costly sources to replace lost visitors, and such decreased revenue and/or increased expense could adversely affect our business and profitability. Our visitor traffic can be impacted by interest rate volatility. We provide interest rate information for mortgages and other loans, credit cards and a variety of deposit accounts. Visitor traffic to our online platforms tends to increase with interest rate movements. Factors that have caused significant visitor fluctuations in the past have been Federal Reserve Board actions and general market conditions affecting home mortgage and deposit interest rates. Additionally, the level of traffic to our websites can be dependent on interest rate levels as well as mortgage financing and refinancing 17 Table of Contents activity. Accordingly, a slowdown in mortgage production or refinancing volumes could have an adverse effect on our business. Conversely, a sudden, significant change in interest rates could dramatically increase our page views such that we would be unable to sell sufficient advertisements to take full advantage of the spike in traffic. To accelerate the growth of traffic to our websites, we are working with our syndication partners to provide timely content, and we are aggressively promoting all of our products. There is the risk that our traffic will not remain stable or that our promotional activities will not be successful. Any reduction in traffic to our online platforms could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We depend on third-parties for a significant portion of our insurance lead generation leads and traffic and to a lesser extent for our banking and credit card traffic and revenues, and any material decline in our relationships with these third parties, or increase in the price of leads from these third parties, could have a material adverse impact on our revenues or operating results. A significant portion of our revenue from our lead product, particularly in our insurance channel, is attributable to leads sourced from third-parties, including but not limited to website publishers, lead aggregators and email marketers. In many instances, these third parties can change the lead inventory they make available to us at any time and, therefore, impact our revenue. If these third parties decide not to make lead inventory available to us, are purchased by one of our competitors or another company that decide to no longer make lead inventory available to us, or decide to demand a higher price for lead product, we may not be able to find replacement lead inventory from other sources that satisfy our requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could have a material adverse impact on our revenues or operating results. In addition, our failure to mitigate risks associated with this traffic and leads from third party sources within our insurance lead generation channel by developing larger direct and organic traffic could have a material adverse impact on our revenues or operating results. If we fail to keep pace with rapidly-changing technologies and industry standards, including without limitation the increasing shift by consumers to mobile devices from personal computers, we could lose consumers, customers or advertising inventory and our results of operations may suffer. The business lines in which we currently operate and compete are characterized by rapidly-changing Internet media and marketing standards, changing technologies and platforms, frequent new product and service introductions, and changing consumer and customer demands and modes of accessing and providing information. The number of individuals who access the Internet through devices other than a personal computer, such as tablets and smartphones, has increased dramatically. The introduction of new technologies and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render our existing technologies and services obsolete and unmarketable or require unanticipated investments in technology. If consumers find our online network difficult to access through alternative devices or our competitors develop product offerings that are better adapted to or more easily accessible through alternative devices, we may fail to capture a sufficient share of an increasingly important portion of the market for online services and may fail to attract both advertisers and Internet traffic. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to adapt to these rapidly-changing digital media formats and platforms and other technologies, including without limitation new Internet and mobile technologies. We will need to enhance our existing technologies and services and develop and introduce new technologies and services to address our customers’ changing demands and consumer expectations and the ways consumers access online information. If we fail to adapt successfully to such developments or timely introduce new technologies and services, including without limitation a failure to successfully execute on our mobile strategy, we could lose consumers and customers, our expenses could increase and we could lose advertising inventory, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our revenues or results of operations. Our websites, applications, widgets and other products may encounter technical problems, service interruptions or security failures. In the past, our websites have experienced significant increases in traffic and our applications and widgets have experienced significant increases in use in response to interest rate movements and other business or financial news events. The number of our visitors has continued to increase over time, and we are seeking to further increase our visitor traffic. As a result, our servers must accommodate spikes in demand for our web pages in addition to potential significant growth in traffic. Our websites, applications, widgets and other products have in the past, and may in the future, experience slower response times or interruptions as a result of increased traffic or other reasons. These delays and interruptions may increase in the future if our servers and infrastructure are not able to accommodate potential significant traffic growth and spikes in demand. Delays and interruptions 18 Table of Contents resulting from the failure to maintain service connections to our websites or applications could frustrate visitors and reduce future traffic on our online platforms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our principal communications, networking and operations equipment is located in commercial co-location data centers in Atlanta, Georgia; Denver, Colorado; and Austin, Texas, as well as other locations. Additional communications, networking and operations equipment is located at our office locations in North Palm Beach, Florida and Denver, Colorado, as well as other locations. Multiple system or network failures or catastrophic loss of facility involving these locations, particularly data centers, could lead to interruptions or delays in service for our websites or applications, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Additionally, we are dependent on third-party providers and their ability to provide safe, effective and cost-efficient servers. Our operations are dependent upon our ability, and our third-party providers’ ability, to protect our systems against damage from fires, floods, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, acts of terrorism, hacker attacks and other events beyond our control. If any of these events were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Although we maintain insurance to cover a variety of risks, the scope and amount of our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our losses resulting from system or security failures or other disruptions to our online operations. Our business depends on a strong brand and content, thus we will not be able to attract visitors and advertisers if we do not maintain and develop our brands and content. It is critical for us to maintain and develop our brands and content so as to effectively expand our visitor base and our revenues. Our success in promoting and enhancing our brands, as well as our ability to remain relevant and competitive, depends on our success in offering high quality content, features, product offers, services and functionality. In addition, we may take actions that have the unintended consequence of harming our brand. If our actions cause consumers to question the value of our marketplace, our business and reputation may suffer. If we fail to promote our brands successfully or if visitors to our websites, users of our applications, or advertisers do not perceive our content and services to be of high quality, we may not be able to continue growing our business and attracting visitors and advertisers, which will in turn impact our operating results. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly. Our results of operations are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of several factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · changes in fees paid by our customers or customer demand for our services; · traffic levels on our websites and mobile applications, which can fluctuate significantly; · changes in the demand for online products and services; · changes in fee or revenue-sharing arrangements with our distribution partners; · changes in application approval rates by our credit card issuer customers; · our ability to enter into or renew key distribution agreements; · the introduction of new advertising services by us or our competitors; · failure by advertisers or their agencies to pay amounts owed to us in a timely manner or at all; · changes in access to lead inventory; · changes in our capital or operating expenses; · changes in consumer confidence; · changes in interest rates; · general economic conditions; and · changes in banking or other laws that could limit or eliminate content on our websites. Our future revenue and results of operations are difficult to forecast due to these factors as well as other factors. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on past periods as indicators of future performance. 19 Table of Contents Restrictive covenants in the indenture governing our outstanding senior secured notes, our revolving credit agreement or other future indebtedness may limit our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to pursue our business strategies. The Senior Notes Indenture (as defined below) governing our 6 1/8 % senior notes due 2018 (the “Senior Notes” or “Notes”) and our New Credit Agreement (as defined below) contain, and any future indebtedness may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that we believe may be in our interest. The Senior Notes Indenture and the New Credit Agreement limit, among other things, our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; · pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of capital stock or make certain other restricted payments (including redemptions of subordinated indebtedness); · enter into agreements that restrict distributions from restricted subsidiaries; · sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · create or incur liens; · enter into sale/leaseback transactions; · merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets; · make investments; and · change our business operations. A breach of the covenants or restrictions under the Senior Notes Indenture, the New Credit Agreement or any agreement governing our future indebtedness could result in a default under the applicable indebtedness. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In the event our lenders and note holders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we cannot assure that we and our subsidiaries would have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. The restrictions contained in the Senior Notes Indenture and the New Credit Agreement could adversely affect our ability to: · finance our operations; · make needed or desired capital expenditures; · make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into strategic alliances; · withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general; · engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our interest; and · plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies. These restrictions could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations under the Senior Notes and the New Credit Agreement. Risks associated with our strategic acquisitions could adversely affect our business or results of operations. We have acquired a number of companies and assets of companies in the past and may make additional acquisitions, asset purchases and strategic investments in the future. We will continue to consider acquisitions, asset purchases and joint ventures as a means of enhancing stockholder value. Our success in integrating our acquired businesses will depend upon our ability to retain key personnel, avoid diversion of management’s attention from operational matters, integrate the technical operations and personnel of the acquired companies, and achieve the expected financial results, synergies and other benefits from our acquisitions. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs and contingent liabilities. Integration of acquired operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business, than originally anticipated. 20 Table of Contents It is also possible that expected synergies from future acquisitions may not materialize in full or at all. We may also incur costs and divert management attention through potential acquisitions that are never consummated. Future impairment losses on goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life, or restructuring charges, could also occur as a result of acquisitions. Despite our due diligence investigation of each business that we acquire, there may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to or are unable to discover during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible and which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In connection with acquisitions, we generally seek to minimize the impact of these types of potential liabilities through the structure of the transaction or through indemnities and warranties from the seller, which may in some instances be supported by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price. However, these indemnities and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. Our ability to consummate any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands, our resources and our ability to obtain financing. We depend on attracting and retaining executive officers and personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part on the skills of our senior management team and other skilled employees. The loss of service of one or more of our executive officers or of other personnel could reduce our ability to successfully implement our long-term business strategy, our business could suffer and the value of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. Leadership changes will occur from time to time and we cannot predict whether significant resignations will occur or whether we will be able to recruit additional qualified personnel. We believe our senior management team possesses valuable knowledge about our business and that their knowledge and relationships would be very difficult to replicate. Although our senior management team has entered into employment agreements with us, they may not complete the term of their employment agreements or renew them upon expiration. Our success and the quality of our content also depend on the expertise of our editors and reporters and on their relationships with the media, financial experts and other sources of information. The loss of qualified personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. If our employees were to unionize, our operating costs would likely increase. Our employees are not currently represented by a collective bargaining agreement. However, we have no assurance that our employees will not unionize in the future, which could increase our operating costs, force us to alter our operating methods, and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are from time to time involved in, or may in the future be subject to, claims, suits, government inquiries or investigations, and other proceedings that may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We are from time to time involved in, or may in the future be subject to, claims, suits, government inquiries or investigations, and proceedings arising from our business or the fact that we are a public company, including actions with respect to intellectual property claims, privacy, consumer protection, information security, securities laws and regulations, transactions in which we are involved, data protection or law enforcement matters, tax matters, labor and employment claims, commercial claims, as well as shareholder derivative actions, purported class action lawsuits, and other matters. We are also at risk where we have agreed to indemnify others for losses related to legal proceedings or from direct harm. Such claims, suits, inquiries, investigations, and proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of the outcome, any such legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management and other personnel, and other factors. In addition, it is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in reputational harm, liability, penalties, or sanctions, as well as judgments, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, or requiring a change in our business practices, products or technologies, which could in the future materially and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition . In addition, accounting rules may require the Company to record a liability related to a particular matter prior to its resolution if the incurrence of a loss related to such matter becomes probable and reasonably estimable. In addition to litigation in the ordinary course of business, we are currently involved in litigation in which it has been alleged that we have participated in anti-competitive conduct. See the section entitled “Legal Proceedings.” Antitrust litigation is by its nature not in the ordinary course. Defending antitrust allegations, even if ultimately successful, can be costly and have a negative effect on our business. In addition, the relief sought by the plaintiffs in this case, if granted, could prevent Bankrate from continuing to pursue at 21 Table of Contents least some aspects of its current business model, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to operational risk. We are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events. Operational risk also encompasses compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards, as well as the risk of our noncompliance with contractual and other obligations. We are also exposed to operational risk through the aspects of our business that we outsource, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can have on our ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to our business. Although we seek to mitigate operational risk through a system of internal controls which we review and update, no system of controls, however well designed and maintained, is infallible. Control weaknesses or failures or other operational risks could result in charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation or foregone business opportunities, and also adversely impact our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We rely on the protection of our intellectual property. Our intellectual property includes our unique research and editorial content of our websites, our applications, our URLs, our registered and unregistered trademarks and our print publications. We rely on a combination of copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, and our policy and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants and seek to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for other parties to copy or otherwise obtain and use the content of our websites, mobile applications or print publications without authorization. A failure to protect our intellectual property in a meaningful manner could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to claims that we violated intellectual property rights of others, which even if unfounded or decided in our favor may be extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to operate. Companies in the Internet and technology industries, and other patent holders seeking to profit from royalties in connection with grants of licenses, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We may in the future receive notices that claim we have misappropriated or misused other parties’ intellectual property rights. There may be intellectual property rights held by others, including issued or pending patents and trademarks, that cover significant aspects of our technologies, content, branding or business methods. Because we license some of our data and content from other parties, we may be exposed to infringement actions if such parties do not possess the necessary proprietary rights. Generally, we obtain representations as to the origin and ownership of licensed content and obtain indemnification to cover any breach of any of these representations. However, these representations may not be accurate and the indemnification may be limited or otherwise may not be sufficient to provide adequate compensation for any breach of these representations. Any future infringement or other claims or prosecutions related to our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. Defending against any of these claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel or require us to introduce new content or trademarks, develop new technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We may face liability for, and may be subject to claims related to, information on our websites or mobile applications, which even if unfounded or decided in our favor may be extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to operate. Much of the information published on our online platforms and in our print publications relates to the competitiveness of financial institutions’ rates, products and services. We also publish editorial content designed to educate consumers about banking and personal finance products. If the information we provide is not accurate or is construed as misleading or outdated, consumers and others could lose confidence in our services and attempt to hold us liable for damages and government regulators could impose fines or penalties on us. We may be subjected to claims of violations of law or regulation, and claims for defamation, negligence, fraud, deceptive 22 Table of Contents practices, copyright or trademark infringement, conflicts of interest or other theories relating to the information we publish. In addition, if there are errors or omissions in information we publish, consumers, individually or through consumer class actions, could seek damages from us for losses incurred if they relied on incorrect information we provided. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against providers of online services as well as print publications. The scope and amount of our insurance may not adequately protect us against these types of claims. We may face liability for, and may be subject to claims related to, inaccurate advertising content provided to us, which even if unfounded or decided in our favor may be extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to operate. Much of the information on our online platforms that is provided by advertisers and collected from third parties relates to the rates, costs and features for various loan, depository, insurance, personal credit and investment products offered by financial institutions, mortgage companies, investment companies, insurance companies and others participating in the personal finance marketplace. We are exposed to the risk that some advertisers may provide us, or directly post on our websites or mobile applications, (i) inaccurate information about their product rates, costs and features, or (ii) rates, costs and features that are not available to all consumers. This could cause consumers to lose confidence in the information we provide, causing certain advertisers to become dissatisfied with our services, and result in lawsuits being filed against us which could adversely affect our business or results of operations. The scope and amount of our insurance may not adequately protect us against these types of lawsuits. Our success depends on establishing and maintaining distribution arrangements. Our business strategy includes the distribution of our content through the establishment of co-branded web pages with high traffic business and personal finance sections of online services and websites. Providing access to these co-branded web pages is a significant part of the value we offer to our advertisers. We compete with other Internet content providers to maintain our current relationships with other online operators and establish new relationships. In addition, as we expand our personal finance content, some of these online operators may perceive us as a competitor. As a result, they may be unwilling to promote distribution of our content. If our distribution arrangements do not attract a sufficient number of visitors to support our current advertising model, or if we do not establish and maintain distribution arrangements on favorable economic terms, our business could be adversely affected. We do not have exclusive relationships or long-term contracts with the banks, mortgage brokers, credit card issuers, insurance companies or agencies that are our customers, which may limit our ability to retain these customers as participants in our marketplace and maintain the attractiveness of our services to consumers. We do not have an exclusive relationship with the banks, mortgage brokers, credit card issuers, insurance companies or agencies whose products are advertised on our online marketplace, and thus, consumers may obtain financial services products from these companies without using our services. Many of our customers also offer their products directly to consumers through agents, mass marketing campaigns or other traditional methods of distribution. In many cases, our customers also offer their products and services over the Internet, either directly to consumers or through one or more of our online competitors, or both. An inability to retain these customers as participants in our marketplace could materially affect our business, revenues and results of operations. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired. We are required under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include, among others, unanticipated competition, loss of key personnel, or a significant adverse change in the business environment. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. This could adversely impact our results of operations. Unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect us. Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. An unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, and could negatively and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 23 Table of Contents We may expand to other international markets, in addition to our United Kingdom, Canada and China operations, in which we may have limited experience. We have websites for consumers located in the United Kingdom, Canada and China. In the event that we expand into other international markets, we will have only limited experience in marketing and operating our products and services in those markets. Expansion into international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources, may require the attraction, retention and management of local offices or personnel, and requires us to tailor our services and information to the local market as well as to adapt to local cultures, languages, regulations and standards. Certain international markets may be slower than domestic markets in adopting the Internet as an advertising and commerce medium or in developing telecommunications or Internet infrastructure and so our operations in international markets may not develop at a rate that supports our level of investment. In addition, international consumers may not adopt the Internet for personal finance content at all or as quickly as U.S. consumers. Our international operations are subject to increased risks which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We face certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: · trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; · difficulties in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; · restrictions on the use of or access to the Internet; · longer payment cycles; · credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; · currency exchange rate fluctuations; · political or social unrest or economic instability; · seasonal volatility in business activity; · risks related to compliance with applicable regulations, including but not limited to anti-corruption laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.K. Bribery Act; · risks related to government regulation or required compliance with local laws in certain jurisdictions, including labor laws; and · potentially adverse tax consequences. One or more of these factors could harm our future international operations and consequently, could harm our brand, business, operating results, and financial condition. Fraudulent Internet transactions, consumer identity theft, security breaches and privacy concerns could hurt our revenues and reputation. If consumers experience identity theft, data security breaches or fraud after clicking through one of our websites or mobile applications to apply for credit cards on the websites of credit card issuers, mortgage or deposit products on the websites of brokers or lenders, or insurance on the websites of insurance agents or carriers, or following the completion of a lead form, we may be exposed to liability, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation. Despite our implementation of security measures, our computer systems may be susceptible to electronic or physical computer break-ins, viruses and other disruptions and security breaches. In addition, we depend on vendors to store or process certain information, some of which may be private or include personally-identifiable information. If these vendors fail to maintain adequate information security systems and consumer information is compromised, our business or results of operation could be harmed. Any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally-identifiable information regarding visitors to our services could harm our reputation, impair our ability to attract consumers and attract and retain our advertisers, or subject us to claims or litigation arising from damages suffered by consumers, and thereby harm our business and operating results. To the extent that credit card fraud or identity theft causes a general decline in consumer confidence in online financial transactions, our revenues could decline and our reputation could be damaged. If consumers are reluctant to use our services because of concerns over data privacy or credit card fraud, our ability to generate revenues would be impaired. Our revenues would also decline if changes in industry standards, regulations or laws deterred people from using the Internet to conduct transactions that 24 Table of Contents involve the transmission of confidential information, such as applying for credit cards. In addition, if technology upgrades or other expenditures are required to prevent security breaches of our network, boost general consumer confidence in financial transactions over the Internet, or prevent credit card fraud and identity theft, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources. Further, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we use to protect consumers’ and customer companies’ confidential information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to detect click-through fraud, other fraud on advertisements or unscrupulous advertisers, we could lose the confidence of our other advertisers or our customers and all or part of their business, thereby causing our business to suffer. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent clicks on our advertisements or actions with respect to our lead sources. We may in the future have to refund revenue that our advertisers or customers have paid to us and that was later attributed to, or suspected to be caused by fraud. Fraudulent clicks may result in us receiving advertising fees that are not the result of clicks generated by consumers. Click-through fraud occurs when a person or automated system clicks on an advertisement displayed on a website with the intent of generating the revenue share payment to the publisher rather than to view the underlying content. Action fraud occurs when on-line forms are completed with false or fictitious information in an effort to increase the compensable actions in respect of which the recipient of such information is to be compensated. We do not charge our advertisers or customers for fraudulent clicks or actions when they are detected, and such fraudulent activities could negatively affect our profitability or harm our reputation. If fraudulent clicks or actions are not detected, the affected advertisers or customers may experience a reduced return on their investment in our programs, which could lead the advertisers or customers to become dissatisfied with our campaigns, and in turn, lead to loss of advertisers or customers and the related revenue. We are also exposed to the risk that advertisers who advertise on our website will advertise interest rates or other terms on a variety of financial products that they do not intend to honor. This “bait and switch” activity encourages consumers to contact fraudulent advertisers over legitimate advertisers because the fraudulent advertisers claim to offer better interest rates or other terms. Such activity could hurt our reputation and our brand and lead to our other advertisers becoming dissatisfied with our advertising programs, which could lead to loss of advertisers and revenue. Future government regulation of the Internet is uncertain and subject to change. Laws and regulations that apply to Internet communications, commerce and advertising are continuously evolving and developing. In the United States and abroad, federal and state laws have been enacted regarding intellectual property ownership and infringement, trade secrets, the sending of unsolicited commercial email, user privacy, search engines, Internet tracking technologies, direct marketing, data security, children’s privacy, sweepstakes, promotions and acceptable content and quality of goods. This legislation could: hinder growth in the use of the Internet generally; decrease the acceptance of the Internet as a communications, commercial and advertising medium; reduce our revenue; increase our operating expenses; or expose us to significant liabilities. Additionally, taxation of Internet use or electronic commerce transactions may be imposed. Any regulation imposing fees for Internet use or electronic commerce transactions could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet commerce, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Laws and regulations may limit or restrict the way we operate our business or establish and maintain our online relationships, and may subject us to claims. State, federal and foreign lending laws and regulations generally require accurate disclosure of the critical components of credit costs so that consumers can readily compare credit terms from various lenders. These laws and regulations also impose certain restrictions on the advertisement of these credit terms. Because we are an aggregator of rate and other information regarding many financial products, including mortgages, deposits and credit cards, we may be subject to some of these laws and regulations and we may be held liable under these laws and regulations for information provided through our online services. The insurance industry is also subject to numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including licensing requirements. We rely on telemarketing and email marketing conducted internally and through third parties to generate a significant number of leads for our business. The telemarketing and email marketing services industries are subject to an increasing amount of regulation in the United States under both federal and state law. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and Federal Communications Commission (FCC) have issued regulations that place restrictions on telephone calls to residential and wireless telephone subscribers. Most of the statutes and regulations in the United States allow a private right of action for the recovery of damages or provide for enforcement by the FTC, state attorneys general or state agencies permitting the recovery of significant civil or criminal penalties, costs and attorneys’ fees in the event that regulations are violated. We believe that we comply with all such applicable laws and regulations, but cannot assure you that we, or third parties that we rely on for telemarketing, email marketing and other lead generation activities, will be in 25 Table of Contents compliance with all applicable laws and regulations at all times. We cannot assure you that the FTC, FCC, private litigants or others will not attempt to hold us responsible for any unlawful acts conducted by such third parties or that we could successfully enforce or collect upon any indemnities provided to us by third parties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, changes in such regulations or the interpretation thereof that further restrict such activities could result in a material reduction in the number of leads for our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The FCC recently amended its regulations under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA), effective in July 2012, which could increase our exposure to liability for certain types of telephonic communication with consumers. Under the TCPA, plaintiffs may seek injunctive relief and actual monetary loss or statutory damages of $500 per violation, whichever is greater, and courts may treble the damage award for willful or knowing violations. We are currently party to a putative class action alleging violations of the TCPA that is described in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this document. The lawsuit seeks damages (including statutory damages) and injunctive relief, among other remedies, and a determination that there have been violations of laws relating to our practices under the TCPA or other communications-based statutes could expose us to damage awards that could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe that we have structured our business and our online services to comply with applicable laws and regulations as are currently in effect. Because of uncertainties as to the applicability of some of these laws and regulations to the Internet and, more specifically, to our type of business, and considering that our business has evolved and expanded in a relatively short period of time, and will continue to evolve and develop, we may not always have been, and may not always be, in compliance with all applicable federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. If we are found to be in violation of any applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders, and civil and criminal liability. If these laws and regulations are changed, or if new laws or regulations are enacted, these events could prohibit or substantially alter the content we provide on our websites and the operation of our business. Moreover, such events could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Deterioration in general economic conditions and difficult market conditions may adversely affect the financial services industry and harm our revenue opportunities, business and financial condition. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment negatively impact the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. These macroeconomic conditions have affected and may in the future negatively affect our business and financial condition. Economic pressure on consumers and businesses and declining confidence in the financial markets would likely cause a decrease in the demand for advertising financial products and services. Additionally, advertising expenditures tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Since we derive most of our revenues from selling advertising, deterioration in economic conditions could cause decreases in or delays in advertising spending and would be likely to reduce our revenue and negatively impact our short term ability to grow our revenues. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial flexibility and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the Notes and New Credit Agreement. We have, and will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, our total indebtedness was $297.0 million, net of unamortized discount comprised of the Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $300.0 million. As of December 31, 2013, we had no loans outstanding under the New Credit Agreement. Our interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $25.1 million. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to invest in our business at an appropriate level, thereby making it more difficult to pay amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have other important consequences to you and significant effects on our business. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to other contractual and commercial commitments; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy, or acquisitions and other purposes; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to us for other purposes; 26 Table of Contents · make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, changes in government regulation and changes in our business by limiting our flexibility in planning for, and making it more difficult for us to react quickly to, changing conditions; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; · expose us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expenses in the event of increases in interest rates; and · make it more difficult to satisfy our financial obligations, including payments on the Notes and amounts outstanding from time to time under the New Credit Agreement. In addition, the Senior Notes Indenture and the New Credit Agreement each contain, and the agreements evidencing or governing other future indebtedness may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, including the Notes, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful or if successful, could adversely impact our business. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations, including the Notes, depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. Our debt service obligations are currently $18.4 million per year. In addition, we entered into the Revolving Credit Facility described below, which when drawn in the future would increase the amount of our current debt service obligations. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to fund our day-to-day operations or to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the Notes. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, such alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The Senior Notes Indenture and the New Credit Agreement each restrict, and any of our other future debt agreements may restrict, our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. In addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries, certain of which may not be guarantors of the Notes or guarantors of our other indebtedness. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness, including the Notes, is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are guarantors of the Notes, our obligations from time to time under the New Credit Agreement or any future indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the Notes or under the New Credit Agreement or to make funds available for such purposes. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness, including the Notes. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. Although the Senior Notes Indenture and the New Credit Agreement do, and other future debt agreements may, limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are, or in the case of future debt agreements may be, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, including the Notes. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, holders of Notes or our other indebtedness could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 27 Table of Contents Despite restrictions in the Senior Notes Indenture and the Revolving Credit Facility, we may still be able to incur additional indebtedness. This could increase the risks associated with our leverage, including the ability to service our indebtedness. We may be able to incur additional indebtedness pursuant to the Senior Notes Indenture and the New Credit Agreement in the future, including additional secured indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, we were able to incur up to an additional $417.7 million of indebtedness, of which up to $100.0 million could be secured indebtedness, pursuant to the incurrence tests described in the Senior Notes Indenture and New Credit Agreement. Although covenants under the Senior Notes Indenture and the New Credit Agreement limit our ability and the ability of our present and future subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and, under certain circumstances, debt incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. The Senior Notes Indenture and the New Credit Agreement also allow us to incur certain additional secured and unsecured debt and allow our foreign restricted subsidiaries and our future unrestricted subsidiaries to incur additional debt, which would be structurally senior to the Notes and amounts outstanding from time to time under the Revolving Credit Facility. In addition, the Senior Notes Indenture and the New Credit Agreement do not prohibit us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness as defined therein. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness or such other obligations, the risk associated with substantial additional indebtedness described above, including our possible inability to service our debt will increase. Risks Related to Ownership of Shares of Our Securities The Apax Holders (defined below) control a significant interest in us and its interests may conflict with or differ from stockholder interests. We are a majority-owned subsidiary of Ben Holding S.à r.l., which is beneficially owned by Apax US VII, L.P., Apax Europe VII-A, L.P., Apax Europe VII-B, L.P. and Apax Europe VII-1, L.P. (the “Apax Holders”). Ben Holding S.à r.l. currently owns a majority of our common stock. As a result of its ownership, the Apax Holders have the power, and pursuant to the stockholders agreement, their majority-owned subsidiary Ben Holding S.à r.l. has the contractual right, to elect a majority of our directors. Accordingly, the Apax Holders have the ability to prevent or approve any transaction that requires the approval of our board of directors or our stockholders, including the approval of significant corporate transactions such as business combinations. In addition, following a reduction of the equity owned by the Apax Holders to below 50% of our outstanding common stock, the Apax Holders, through Ben Holding S.à r.l., will retain the right to designate a certain number of designees for our board of directors until the Apax Holders’ ownership percentage falls below 5%. Thus, even after selling a portion of its interests in us, the Apax Holders will continue to be able to significantly influence or effectively control our decisions. The interests of the Apax Holders could conflict with or differ from stockholder interests. For example, the concentration of ownership held by the Apax Holders could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination that other stockholders may otherwise support, or approve such transactions notwithstanding opposition from other stockholders. Additionally, Apax Partners is in the business of advising on investments in companies the Apax Holders hold, and they or other funds advised by Apax Partners may from time to time in the future acquire, interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. They may also pursue acquisitions that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements applicable to non-controlled companies. The Apax Holders control a majority of our voting common stock. As a result, we will continue to be a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards for so long as the Apax Holders continue to own a majority of our outstanding voting power. Under the New York Stock Exchange rules, a company of which more than 50% of the outstanding voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain stock exchange corporate governance requirements, including: · the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consists of independent directors; · the requirement that nominating and corporate governance matters be decided solely by independent directors; and · the requirement that employee and officer compensation matters be decided solely by independent directors. We intend to continue to utilize these exemptions for so long as they are available to us. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors nor are our nominating and corporate governance and compensation functions decided solely by independent 28 Table of Contents directors. Accordingly, stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to holders of securities of companies that are subject to all of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2013 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 