ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our units following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of expenses, including payments to our general partner. 13 Table of Contents We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.4750 per unit (or $10.7 million per quarter in the aggregate), or any distribution at all, on our units. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserves established by our general partner to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, including development of our oil and gas properties, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders. The amount of cash we distribute on our units principally depends on the cash we generate from operations, which depends on, among other things: · the amount of oil, NGLs and natural gas we produce and sell; · the prices at which we sell our oil, NGL and natural gas production; · the amount and timing of settlements on our commodity and interest rate derivatives; · the level of our capital expenditures; · the level of our operating costs, including development costs and payments to our general partner; and · the level of our interest expense, which depends on the amount of our indebtedness and the interest payable thereon. Unless we replace the oil and natural gas reserves we produce, our revenues and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We may be unable to sustain our minimum quarterly distribution without substantial capital expenditures that maintain our asset base. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and therefore our cash flow and ability to make distributions are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves. Our production decline rates may be significantly higher than currently estimated if our wells do not produce as expected. Further, our decline rate may change when we drill additional wells or make acquisitions. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at economically acceptable terms, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our development operations require substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce our cash available for distribution and could materially affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. The development and production of our oil and natural gas reserves requires substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Further, if the borrowing base under our credit facility or our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices, we may not be able to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at the expected levels necessary to generate an amount of cash sufficient to make distributions to our unitholders. A decline in oil, natural gas or NGL prices will cause a decline in our cash flow from operations, which could cause us to reduce our distributions or cease paying distributions altogether. Lower oil and natural gas prices may decrease our revenues and thus cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been extremely volatile. For example, for the five years ended December 31, 2011, the NYMEX-WTI oil price ranged from a high of $145.29 per Bbl to a low of $31.41 per Bbl, while the NYMEX-Henry Hub natural gas price ranged from a high of $13.31 per MMBtu to a low of $1.88 per MMBtu. As of March 26, 2012, the NYMEX-WTI oil spot price was $107.03 per Bbl and the NYMEX-Henry Hub natural gas spot price was $2.13 per MMBtu. A significant decrease in commodity prices may cause us to reduce the distributions we pay to our unitholders or we may cease paying distributions. If commodity prices decline and remain depressed for a prolonged period, a significant portion of our development projects may become uneconomic and cause write downs of the value of our oil and natural gas properties, which may adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. 14 Table of Contents Significantly lower oil and natural gas prices may render many of our development and production projects uneconomical and result in a downward adjustment of our reserve estimates, which would negatively impact our borrowing base and ability to fund our operations. As a result, we may reduce the amount of distributions paid to our unitholders or cease paying distributions. Further, deteriorating commodity prices may cause us to recognize impairments in the value of our oil and natural gas properties. In addition, if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for impairments. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken and our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility to pay distributions to our unitholders. An increase in the differential between the NYMEX or other benchmark prices of oil and natural gas and the wellhead price we receive for our production could significantly reduce our cash available for distribution and adversely affect our financial condition. The hedged prices that we receive for our oil and natural gas production often reflect a regional discount based on the location of production to the relevant benchmark prices used for calculating hedge positions, such as NYMEX. These discounts, if significant, could reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders and adversely affect our financial condition. Our hedging strategy may be ineffective in removing the impact of commodity price volatility from our cash flows, which could result in financial losses or could reduce our income, which may adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our hedging strategy is to enter into commodity derivative contracts covering approximately 65% to 85% of our estimated production from total proved developed producing reserves over any subsequent three-to-five year period. The prices at which we enter into commodity derivative contracts covering our production in the future will be dependent upon oil and natural gas prices at the time we enter into these transactions, which may be substantially higher or lower than current oil and natural gas prices. Accordingly, our price hedging strategy may not protect us from significant declines in oil and natural gas prices received for our future production. Our hedging activities could result in cash losses, could reduce our cash available for distributions and may limit potential gains. Many of our derivative contracts require us to make cash payments to the extent the applicable index exceeds a predetermined price, thereby limiting our ability to realize the benefit of increases in oil and natural gas prices. If our actual production and sales for any period are less than our hedged production and sales for that period (including reductions in production due to operational delays) or if we are unable to perform our drilling activities as planned, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our hedging obligations without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, which may materially impact our liquidity. Our hedging transactions expose us to counterparty credit risk. Our hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden decreases in a counterparty’s liquidity, which could make them unable to perform under the terms of the derivative contract and we may not be able to realize the benefit of the derivative contract. Our estimated proved reserves and future production rates are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our estimated reserves. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering is complex, requiring subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future production levels and operating and 15 Table of Contents development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. For example, if the prices used in our December 31, 2011 reserve reports had been $10.00 less per barrel for oil and $1.00 less per MMBtu for natural gas, then the standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves as of that date would have decreased by $84.7 million, from $342.3 million to $257.6 million. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves, or standardized measure, may not be the current market value of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the 12-month average oil and gas index prices, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average for the first-day-of-the-month price for each month and costs in effect on the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the properties. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate, and future net present value estimates using then current prices and costs may be significantly less than the current estimate. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting requirements in compliance with the FASB in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 932 may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Developing and producing oil and natural gas are costly and high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for oil and natural gas can be uneconomic, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. Furthermore, our development and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: · high costs, shortages or delivery delays of rigs, equipment, labor or other services; · unexpected operational events and conditions; · adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; · facility or equipment malfunctions, including pipe or cement failures, casing collapses or other downhole failures; · environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, discharge of toxic gas or other pollutants into the surface or subsurface environment; · unusual or unexpected geological formations and pressure or irregularities in formations; · loss of drilling fluid circulation; · fires, blowouts, surface craterings and explosions; · title problems; and · uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our expectations for future drilling activities are scheduled over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. We have identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our multi-year drilling activities on our acreage. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and 16 Table of Contents develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, the generation of additional seismic or geological information, the availability of drilling rigs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, there may be significant delays in timing or we may realize lower than anticipated amounts of estimated proved reserves. Our actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from our current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and as a result, ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Shortages of rigs, equipment and crews could delay our operations and reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally increase the demand for rigs, equipment and crews and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, development equipment, services and personnel. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced development crews and oil field equipment and services could restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations that we currently have planned. Any delay in the development of new wells or a significant increase in development costs could reduce our revenues and reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and ability to pay or increase distributions will be limited. Our ability to grow and to increase distributions to our unitholders depends in part on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in available cash per unit. We may be unable to make such acquisitions because we are: · unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with their owners; · unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or · outbid by competitors. If we are unable to acquire properties containing estimated proved reserves, our total level of estimated proved reserves will decline as a result of our production, and we will be limited in our ability to increase or possibly even to maintain our level of cash distributions to our unitholders. Any acquisitions we complete are subject to substantial risks that could reduce our ability to make distributions to unitholders. One of our growth strategies is to capitalize on opportunistic acquisitions of oil and gas reserves. Even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will increase available cash per unit, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in available cash per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: · the validity of our assumptions about estimated proved reserves, future production, commodity prices, revenues, capital expenditures, operating expenses and costs; · an inability to successfully integrate the assets we acquire; · an inability to obtain satisfactory title to the assets we acquire; · a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; · a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; · the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; · the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing assets; and · the occurrence of other significant changes, such as impairment of oil and natural gas properties, goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. 17 Table of Contents Our decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic data and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Also, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition, given time constraints imposed by sellers. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Adverse developments in our operating areas would reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We only own oil and natural gas properties and related assets, all of which are located in New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas. An adverse development in the oil and natural gas business of these geographic areas could have an impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which may adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to allow us to pay distributions to our unitholders. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive and we compete with companies that possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and natural gas but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and natural gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial, technical or personnel resources permit. In addition, there is substantial competition for investment capital in the oil and natural gas industry. These larger companies may have a greater ability to continue development activities during periods of low oil and natural gas prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We may incur additional debt to enable us to pay our quarterly distributions, which may negatively affect our ability to pay future distributions or execute our business plan. We may be unable to pay the minimum quarterly distribution without borrowing under our credit facility. If we use borrowings under our credit facility to pay distributions to our unitholders for an extended period of time rather than to fund capital expenditures and other activities relating to our operations, we may be unable to maintain or grow our business. Such a curtailment of our business activities, combined with our payment of principal and interest on our future indebtedness to pay these distributions, will reduce our cash available for distribution on our units and will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we borrow to pay distributions to our unitholders during periods of low commodity prices and commodity prices remain low, we may have to reduce our distribution to our unitholders to avoid excessive leverage. Our credit facility has restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our credit facility restricts, among other things, our ability to incur debt and pay distributions, and requires us to comply with customary financial covenants and specified financial ratios. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any provisions of our credit facility that are not cured or waived within the specified time periods, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable and we will be prohibited from making distributions to our unitholders. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our 18 Table of Contents obligations under our credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. Our credit facility allows us to borrow up to the borrowing base, which is primarily based on the estimated future value of our oil and natural gas properties and our commodity derivative contracts as determined semi-annually by our lenders in their sole discretion. The borrowing base is redetermined by our lenders twice each year based on an engineering report with respect to our estimated reserves, based on commodity prices as of such date, as adjusted for the impact of our commodity derivative contracts. A future decline in commodity prices could result in a redetermination that lowers our borrowing base in the future and, in such case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. If we are unable to repay any borrowings in excess of a decreased borrowing base, we would be in default and no longer able to make any distributions to our unitholders. Our business depends in part on pipelines, transportation and gathering systems and processing facilities owned by others. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities could interfere with our ability to market our oil and natural gas production and could harm our business. The marketability of our oil, NGL and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and other transportation methods, such as trucks, gathering systems and processing facilities owned by third parties. The amount of oil, NGLs and natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. Also, the transfer of our oil and natural gas on third-party pipelines may be curtailed or delayed if it does not meet the quality specifications of the pipeline owners. Our access to transportation options, including trucks owned by third parties, can also be affected by U.S. federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or transportation or processing facility capacity could reduce our ability to market our oil and natural gas production and harm our business. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our oil and natural gas production operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. To conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of oil and natural gas production. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Climate change legislation, regulatory initiatives and litigation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. International protocols, federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations relating to climate change and greenhouse gasses could cause our operating costs to increase. The EPA is proceeding with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act beginning with large emitters. The EPA adopted a tiered approach to implementing the permitting of green house gas emissions from stationary sources in May 2010. The so-called “tailoring rule” only requires the stationary sources with the largest emissions to undergo an assessment of green house gas emissions under the best available control technology under the federal permitting programs. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large 19 Table of Contents greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. On November 30, 2010, the EPA published mandatory reporting rules for oil and gas systems requiring reporting starting in 2012 for emissions in 2011. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil, natural gas and NGL that we produce. Any future federal laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the oil, natural gas and NGLs that we produce. Our operations are subject to environmental and operational safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and safety requirements applicable to our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including regulations and enforcement policies, which have tended to become increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and to a lesser extent, issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. Strict, joint and several liability may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. New laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. If we were not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. The third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex federal, state and other laws that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our business. The operations of the third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations that require obtaining and maintaining numerous permits, approvals and certifications from various federal, state and local government authorities. These third parties may incur substantial costs in order to comply with existing laws and regulation. If existing laws and regulations governing such third party services are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to their operations, these changes may affect the costs that we pay for such services. Similarly, a failure to comply with such laws and regulations by the third parties on whom we rely could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the U.S. Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative contracts to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act enacted in July 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, establishes a new regulatory framework for derivative transactions, including oil and gas hedging transactions. Certain transactions will be required to be cleared on a derivatives clearing organization and traded on an exchange or a swap execution facility, and cash collateral will have to be posted. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodity Futures and Trading Commission, or CFTC, federal regulators of banks and other financial institutions, or the prudential regulators, and the SEC to promulgate the rules implementing the new law, which are scheduled to be finally adopted in early 2012. Until these regulations are adopted, effective and implemented in practice, we cannot determine what impact the new regulatory framework will have on our business. 20 Table of Contents Depending on the rules and definitions ultimately adopted by the CFTC, the SEC and the prudential regulators, we might in the future be required to post cash collateral for our commodities derivative transactions. Posting of cash collateral could cause liquidity issues for us by reducing our ability to use our cash for capital expenditures or other partnership purposes. A requirement to post cash collateral could therefore reduce our ability to execute strategic hedges to reduce commodity price uncertainty and thus protect cash flows. Although the CFTC, the SEC and the prudential regulators have issued proposed rules under the Dodd-Frank Act, we are at risk until the regulators adopt rules and definitions that confirm that companies such as us are not required to post cash collateral for our derivative hedging contracts. Even if we are not required to post cash collateral for our derivative contracts, the banks and other derivatives dealers who are our contractual counterparties will be required to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act’s new requirements, and the costs of their compliance will likely be passed on to customers, including us, thus decreasing the benefits to us of hedging transactions and reducing the profitability of our cash flows. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act may also require our contractual counterparties to our derivative contracts to spin off their derivative activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. These changes might not only increase costs, but could also reduce the availability of some derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts and potentially increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. The U.S. Congress is considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing is a commonly used process in the completion of unconventional natural gas wells in shale formations, as well as tight conventional formations including many of those that we complete and produce. This process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. If adopted, this legislation could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting at the federal level, and could make it easier for third parties to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect the environment, including groundwater, soil and surface water. In addition, on October 21, 2011, the EPA announced its intention to propose regulations by 2014 under the Federal Clean Water Act to regulate wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other natural gas production. Some states have adopted and others are also considering legislation to restrict and regulate hydraulic fracturing, including Texas, where the Texas Railroad Commission recently adopted regulations requiring online disclosure of the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. Any additional level of regulation could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs which could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and would increase our costs of compliance and doing business, resulting in a decrease of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity and incur debt. Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions to our unitholders and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield of limited partner units is often used by investors to compare and rank similar yield oriented securities for investment decision making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity or incur debt. Many of our leases are in areas that have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells. Many of our leases are in areas that have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling. The owners of leasehold interests lying contiguous or adjacent to or adjoining our interests could take actions, such as drilling additional wells, that could adversely affect our operations. When a new well is completed and produced, the pressure differential in the vicinity of the well causes the migration of reservoir fluids towards the new wellbore (and potentially away from existing wellbores). As a result, the drilling and production of these potential locations 21 Table of Contents could cause a depletion of our proved reserves, and may inhibit our ability to further exploit and develop our reserves. We may experience a temporary decline in revenues and production if we lose one of our significant customers. To the extent any one of our significant customers reduces the volume of its oil or gas purchases from us, we could experience a temporary interruption in sales of, or a lower price for, our oil and gas production and our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline which could adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Expenses not covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain insurance coverage against potential losses that we believe is customary in the industry. However, these policies may not cover all liabilities, claims, fines, penalties or costs and expenses that we may incur in connection with our business and operations, including those related to environmental claims. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable. A loss not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our general partner and its affiliates own a controlling interest in us and will have conflicts of interest with us, and owe limited fiduciary duties to us, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. Our general partner is ultimately controlled by the co-founders of Lime Rock Management, who also ultimately control Lime Rock Resources and Lime Rock Partners. In turn, our general partner has control over all decisions related to our operations. Lime Rock Resources owns an approximate 52.4% limited partner interest in us and, through its interest in our general partner, is entitled to receive 100% of the distributions we make on our incentive distribution rights through November 16, 2017. The directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to the owners of our general partner. However, our non-independent directors and certain of our executive officers hold similar positions with certain affiliates of our general partner, including Lime Rock Resources, Lime Rock Partners and Lime Rock Management, and continue to have economic interests, investments and other economic incentives in, as well as management and fiduciary duties to, these affiliates. As a result of these relationships, conflicts of interest may arise in the future between Lime Rock Resources, Lime Rock Partners and Lime Rock Management and their respective affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders and us. These potential conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. By purchasing common units, unitholders are consenting to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law; · neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Lime Rock Resources, Lime Rock Partners or Lime Rock Management or their respective affiliates (other than our general partner) to pursue a business strategy that favors us. The directors and officers of Lime Rock Resources, Lime Rock Partners and Lime Rock Management and their respective affiliates (other than our general partner) have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of their respective equity holders, which may be contrary to our interests; · our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as the owners of our general partner, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting our general partner’s fiduciary duty to our unitholders; 22 Table of Contents · Lime Rock Resources, Lime Rock Partners and Lime Rock Management and their affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us, including with respect to future acquisition opportunities, and are under no obligation to offer or sell assets to us.; · all of the executive officers of our general partner who provide services to us, other than our Chief Financial Officer, also devote a significant amount of time to affiliates of our general partner, including Lime Rock Resources, and are compensated for services rendered to such affiliates; · our general partner determines the amount and timing of our drilling program and related capital expenditures, asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership interests, other investments, including investment capital expenditures in other partnerships with which our general partner is or may become affiliated, and cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; · we are a party to a services agreement with Lime Rock Management and OpCo pursuant to which management, administrative and operational services are provided to our general partner and us to manage and operate our business. Lime Rock Management and OpCo have similar arrangements with Lime Rock Resources and its affiliates; · our general partner determines which costs, including allocated overhead, incurred by it and its affiliates, including Lime Rock Management and OpCo, are reimbursable by us. These expenses include salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to persons who perform services for us or on our behalf, and expenses allocated to our general partner by its affiliates. Our general partner is entitled to determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us; · our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; · our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; · our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; · our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates; and · our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Please read “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Lime Rock Resources, Lime Rock Partners and other affiliates of our general partner are not limited in their ability to compete with us, which could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets. Neither our partnership agreement nor the omnibus agreement prohibits Lime Rock Resources, Lime Rock Partners and their affiliates from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. For instance, Lime Rock Resources and any future affiliated funds, such as a prospective Fund III, which may commence raising capital to make acquisitions once 75% of the capital of Fund II has been allocated to acquisition opportunities and expenses of Fund II, and the portfolio companies of Lime Rock Partners may acquire, develop or dispose of oil and natural gas properties or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or develop any of those assets. In addition, Lime Rock Resources has approximately $497 million of additional acquisition capacity that it expects to deploy over the next two years. Because of Lime Rock Resources’ economic interests to invest those funds, it is likely that they will pursue acquisition opportunities that they may otherwise present to us. Lime Rock Resources and Lime Rock Partners are established participants in the energy business and have greater resources than ours, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with these entities with respect to commercial activities as well as for potential acquisitions. As a result, competition from these affiliates could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Please read “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Neither we nor our general partner have any employees and we rely solely on Lime Rock Management and OpCo to manage our business. Most of our management team and the employees of OpCo provide substantially similar services to Lime Rock Resources, and thus are not solely focused on our business. 23 Table of Contents Neither we nor our general partner have any employees and we rely solely on Lime Rock Management and OpCo to manage us and operate our assets. We are a party to a services agreement with Lime Rock Management and OpCo pursuant to which management, administrative and operational services are provided to our general partner and us to manage and operate our business. Lime Rock Management and OpCo provide substantially similar services and personnel to Lime Rock Resources. Should Lime Rock Resources form other funds, Lime Rock Management and OpCo may also enter into similar arrangements with those new funds. Because Lime Rock Management and OpCo provides services to us that are substantially similar to those provided to Lime Rock Resources and, potentially, other funds, Lime Rock Management and OpCo may not have sufficient human, technical and other resources to provide those services at a level that Lime Rock Management and OpCo would be able to provide to us if it did not provide those similar services to Lime Rock Resources and any other funds. Additionally, Lime Rock Management and OpCo may make internal decisions on how to allocate their available resources and expertise that may not always be in our best interest compared to those of Lime Rock Resources or other affiliated funds. There is no requirement that Lime Rock Management and OpCo favor us over Lime Rock Resources or other affiliated funds in providing its services. If the employees of Lime Rock Management and OpCo do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business, our financial results may suffer and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders may be reduced. We have in the past identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, and the identification of any material weaknesses in the future could affect our ability to ensure timely and accurate financial statements. In connection with the audit of our predecessor’s financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, our predecessor’s independent registered accounting firm identified and communicated material weaknesses in our predecessor’s internal control over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors. Although we have taken actions to remediate the past material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, these measures may not be sufficient to ensure that our internal controls are effective in the future. In addition, any future material weaknesses, or any failure to effectively address a material weakness or other control deficiency or implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could limit our ability to obtain financing, harm our reputation, disrupt our ability to process key components of our results of operations and financial position timely and accurately and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations under rules of the SEC and New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our units. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our units. Most of the directors and officers who have responsibility for our management have significant duties with, and spend significant time serving, entities that compete with us in seeking acquisitions and business 24 Table of Contents opportunities and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating time or pursuing business opportunities. To maintain and increase our levels of production, we will need to acquire oil and gas properties. Most of the directors and all of the officers of our general partner who are responsible for managing our operations and acquisition activities hold similar positions with Lime Rock Resources and other entities that are in the business, directly or indirectly, of identifying and acquiring oil and gas properties. For example, Mr. Farber, one of our directors, is a co-founder of Lime Rock Management and a managing director of Lime Rock Partners, which is in the business of investing in exploration and production companies. Mr. Pressler, one of our directors, is also a managing director of Lime Rock Partners, and Messrs. Mullins and Adcock, our Co-Chief Executive Officers, are also Co-Chief Executive Officers of Lime Rock Resources, which is in the business of acquiring oil and gas properties. All of the executive officers of our general partner, other than our Chief Financial Officer, devote significant time to Lime Rock Resources’ businesses. Further, our general partner’s non-independent directors and certain of our executive officers have economic interests, investments and other economic incentives in affiliates of our general partner. Messrs. Farber and Pressler are also directors of several oil and gas producing entities that are in the business of acquiring oil and gas properties. The existing positions held by these directors and officers may give rise to fiduciary obligations that are in conflict with fiduciary duties they owe to us. The officers and directors of Lime Rock Resources, Lime Rock Partners and Lime Rock Management may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may become affiliated. Due to these existing and potential future affiliations with and economic interests in these and other entities, they may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. They may also decide that certain opportunities are more appropriate for other entities with which they are affiliated and elect not to present them to us. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided may be substantial and could reduce our cash available for distribution to you. Under our services agreement with Lime Rock Management and OpCo, each of Lime Rock Management and OpCo receive reimbursement for the provision of various services and personnel for our benefit. Payments for these services are substantial and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Units held by persons who our general partner determines are not eligible holders will be subject to redemption. To comply with U.S. laws with respect to the ownership of interests in oil and natural gas leases on federal lands, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common units. As used herein, an Eligible Holder means a person or entity qualified to hold an interest in oil and natural gas leases on federal lands. As of the date hereof, Eligible Holder means: · a citizen of the United States; · a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof; · a public body, including a municipality; or · an association of United States citizens, such as a partnership or limited liability company, organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof, but only if such association does not have any direct or indirect foreign ownership, other than foreign ownership of stock in a parent corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof. 25 Table of Contents Onshore mineral leases or any direct or indirect interest therein may be acquired and held by aliens only through stock ownership, holding or control in a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof. Unitholders who are not persons or entities who meet the requirements to be an Eligible Holder run the risk of having their common units redeemed by us at the then-current market price. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. Our unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its board of directors. Affiliates of Lime Rock Management who control our general partner will have the power to control our operations. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders do not elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is appointed by Lime Rock Management. Furthermore, if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our general partner has control over all decisions related to our operations. Our general partner is ultimately controlled by the co-founders of Lime Rock Management, who also ultimately control Lime Rock Resources and Lime Rock Partners. Lime Rock Resources, through Fund I, owns an approximate 52.4% limited partner interest in us. As a result, our other unitholders will not have an ability to influence any operating decisions and will not be able to prevent us from entering into any transactions. Our partnership agreement may not be amended during the subordination period without the approval of our public common unitholders, other than in certain limited circumstances where no unitholder approval is required. However, after the subordination period has ended, our partnership agreement may be amended with the consent of our general partner and the approval of the holders of a majority of our outstanding common units (including common units held by Fund I and its affiliates). Assuming we do not issue any additional common units and Fund I does not transfer its common units, Fund I will have the ability to amend our partnership agreement, including our policy to distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders, without the approval of any other unitholder once the subordination period ends. Furthermore, the goals and objectives of Fund I and our general partner relating to us may not be consistent with those of a majority of our other unitholders. Our general partner is required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from our operating surplus, which may result in less cash available for distribution to unitholders from operating surplus than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. Maintenance capital expenditures are those capital expenditures required to maintain the current production levels over the long term of our oil and natural gas properties or maintain the current operating capacity of our other capital assets, including expenditures to replace our oil and natural gas reserves (including non-proved reserves attributable to undeveloped leasehold acreage), whether through the development, exploitation and production of an existing leasehold or the acquisition or development of a new oil or natural gas property. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus in determining cash available for distribution from operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus will be subject to review and change by our conflicts committee at least once a year. Our partnership agreement does not cap the amount of maintenance capital expenditures that our general partner may estimate. In years when our estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders from operating surplus will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures had been deducted from operating surplus. On the other hand, if our general partner underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we will have more cash available for distribution from operating surplus in the short term but will have less cash available for distribution from operating surplus in future periods when we have to increase our estimated maintenance capital expenditures to account for the previous underestimation. 26 Table of Contents Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement: · permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, which allows our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, without a duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its right to reset the target distribution levels of its incentive distribution rights at higher levels and receive, in connection with this reset, common units, the exercise of its limited call right, the exercise of its rights to transfer or vote the units it owns, the exercise of its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation involving us or to any amendment to the partnership agreement; · provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in good faith; · generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner acting in good faith and not involving a vote of unitholders must either be (i) on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or (ii) must be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith. In determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; · provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and · provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision our general partner’s board of directors or the conflicts committee of our general partner’s board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner or our unitholders. This may result in lower distributions to holders of our common units in certain situations. Our general partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (23%, in addition to distributions paid on its approximate 0.1% general partner interest) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial cash target distribution levels at higher levels based on the distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution amount will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution amount per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the ‘reset minimum quarterly distribution’) and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution amount. In connection with resetting these target distribution levels, our general partner will be entitled to receive a number of common units equal to that number of common units whose aggregate quarterly cash distributions equaled the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or 27 Table of Contents internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or may be expected to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued our common units, rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels related to our general partner incentive distribution rights. Even if our unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent. The public unitholders will be unable initially to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. Fund I currently owns approximately 52.5% of our outstanding voting units. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on our common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect our common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over our subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor business management, so the removal of the general partner because of the unitholder’s dissatisfaction with our general partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and conversion of all subordinated units to common units. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of our general partner, who are affiliates of Lime Rock Management, from transferring all or a portion of their ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with their own choices and thereby influence the decisions made by the board of directors and officers in a manner that may not be aligned with the interests of our unitholders. We may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash from reserves established by our general partner, working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions to our unitholders during periods when we record net losses and may not make cash distributions to our unitholders during periods when we record net income. We may issue an unlimited number of additional units, including units that are senior to the common units, without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholders’ ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional common units that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: · our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; 28 Table of Contents · because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; · the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and · the market price of our common units may decline. Our partnership agreement restricts the limited voting rights of unitholders, other than our general partner and its affiliates, owning 20% or more of our common units, which may limit the ability of significant unitholders to influence the manner or direction of management. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ limited voting rights by providing that any common units held by a person, entity or group owning 20% or more of any class of common units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such common units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Fund I may sell common units in the public markets, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. Fund I owns an aggregate of approximately 32.2% of our outstanding common units and all of our subordinated units, which convert into common units at the end of the subordination period. The sale of these units, including common units issued upon the conversion of the subordinated units, in the public markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. Our general partner has a call right that may require common unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is the greater of (i) the highest cash price paid by either of our general partner or any of its affiliates for any common units purchased within the 90 days preceding the date on which our general partner first mails notice of its election to purchase those common units; and (ii) the average daily closing prices of our common units over the 20 days preceding the date three days before the date the notice is mailed. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders also may incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units. Fund I owns an aggregate of approximately 32.2% of our outstanding common units and all of our subordinated units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units and that all of the subordinated units are converted into common units, Fund I will own approximately 52.5% of our aggregate outstanding common units. If we distribute cash from capital surplus, which is analogous to a return of capital, our minimum quarterly distribution will be reduced proportionately, and the distribution thresholds after which the incentive distribution rights entitle our general partner to an increased percentage of distributions will be proportionately decreased. Our cash distributions will be characterized as coming from either operating surplus or capital surplus. Operating surplus is defined in our partnership agreement, and generally means amounts we receive from operating sources, such as sale of our oil and natural gas production, less operating expenditures, such as production costs and taxes, and less estimated average capital expenditures, which are generally amounts we estimate we will need to spend in the future to maintain our production levels over the long term. Capital surplus generally would result from cash received from non-operating sources such as sales of properties and issuances of debt and equity interests. Cash representing capital surplus, therefore, is analogous to a return of capital. Distributions of capital surplus are made to our unitholders and our general partner in proportion to their percentage interests in us, or approximately 99.9% to our unitholders and approximately 0.1% to our general partner, and will result in a decrease in our minimum 29 Table of Contents quarterly distribution and a lower threshold for distributions on the incentive distribution rights held by our general partner. Our partnership agreement allows us to add to operating surplus up to $30.0 million. As a result, a portion of this amount, which is analogous to a return of capital, may be distributed to the general partner and its affiliates, as holders of incentive distribution rights, rather than to holders of common units as a return of capital. Our unitholders’ liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. A unitholder could be liable for our obligations as if it was a general partner if: · a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or · a unitholder’s right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute ‘control’ of our business. Our unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make distributions to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to us are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of common units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to us that are known to such purchaser of common units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. We have the right to borrow to make distributions. Repayment of these borrowings will decrease cash available for future distributions, and covenants in our credit facility may restrict our ability to make distributions. Our partnership agreement allows us to borrow to make distributions. We may make short-term borrowings under our credit facility to make distributions. The primary purpose of these borrowings would be to mitigate the effects of short-term fluctuation in our working capital that would otherwise cause volatility in our quarter-to-quarter distributions. The terms of our credit facility restrict our ability to pay distributions if we do not satisfy the financial and other covenants in the facility. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash (as defined in our partnership agreement), which could limit our ability to grow our reserves and production. Our partnership agreement provides that we will distribute all of our available cash each quarter. As a result, we may be dependent on the issuance of additional common units and other partnership securities and borrowings to finance our growth. A number of factors will affect our ability to issue securities and borrow money to finance growth, as well as the costs of such financings, including: 30 Table of Contents · general economic and market conditions, including interest rates, prevailing at the time we desire to issue securities or borrow funds; · conditions in the oil and gas industry; · the market price of, and demand for, our common units; · our results of operations and financial condition; and · prices for oil, NGLs and natural gas. Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes (including, but not limited to, due to a change in our business or a change in current law), we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our units. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders and, therefore, negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or an existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the Target Distribution may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, the Obama Administration and members of Congress have considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would affect the tax treatment of or impose additional administrative requirements on publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Although we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted, any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution and the Target Distribution may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. 31 Table of Contents President Obama’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2013 and other recently introduced legislation include proposals that would, if enacted, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could increase the taxable income allocable to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. If the IRS contests any of the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our units may be adversely affected, and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Our unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income, which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our total net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units they sell will, in effect, become taxable income to them if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation, depletion and IDC recapture. In addition, because the amount realized may include a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if they sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in our units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts, or IRAs, and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Prospective unitholders who are tax-exempt entities or non-U.S. persons should consult their tax advisor before investing in our units. 32 Table of Contents We will treat each purchaser of units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depletion, depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of units and could have a negative impact on the value of our units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder’s tax returns. We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, however, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, such unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, such unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For this purpose, multiple sales of the same unit will be counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if special relief from the IRS is not available) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in such unitholder’s taxable income for the year of termination. A technical termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a technical termination occurred. 33 Table of Contents We will adopt certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. As a result of investing in our units, our unitholders may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future even if such unitholders do not live in those jurisdictions. Our unitholders likely will be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We initially will own property and conduct business in a number of states, most of which currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. Most of these states also impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is a unitholder’s responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance. We are subject to extensive tax laws and regulations, including federal, state and foreign income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted that could result in increased tax expenditures in the future. Many of these tax liabilities are subject to audits by the respective taxing authority. These audits may result in additional taxes as well as interest and penalties. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 