ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our shares of common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the material risks described below, which we believe represent the material risks related to our business and our securities, together with the other information contained in this Form 10-K, before making a decision to invest in our shares. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks described below. Risks Associated with Our Business We are a blank check company in the development stage with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a blank check company in the development stage with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire a business or entity. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of our initial business combination. If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination, our public stockholders may be forced to wait until May 1, 2014 or later before receiving distributions from the trust account. We have until May 1, 2014 to complete our initial business combination. We have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to such date unless we consummate our initial business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where investors have sought to tender or convert their shares. Only after the expiration of this full time period will public stockholders be entitled to distributions from the trust account if we are unable to complete our initial business combination. Accordingly, investors’ funds may be unavailable to them until after such date and to liquidate your investment, public stockholders may be forced to sell their public shares, potentially at a loss. While our board of directors has decided to seek stockholder approval of the business combination with SME, if such business combination is not consummated, our public stockholders may not be afforded an opportunity to vote on another proposed business combination. While our board of directors has decided to seek stockholder approval of the business combination with SME, if such business combination is not consummated, in connection with another proposed business combination, we will either (i) seek stockholder approval of an initial business combination at a meeting called for such purpose at which stockholders may seek to convert their shares, regardless of whether they vote for or against the proposed business combination, or (ii) provide our stockholders with the opportunity to sell their shares to us by means of a tender offer (and thereby avoid the need for a stockholder vote), in each case subject to the limitations described elsewhere in this Form 10-K and the prospectus for our initial public offering. Accordingly, it is possible that we will consummate an initial business combination even if holders of a majority of our public shares do not approve of the business combination we consummate. The decision as to whether we will seek stockholder approval of a proposed business combination or will allow stockholders to sell their shares to us in a tender offer will be made by us, solely in our discretion, and will be based on a variety of factors such as the timing of the transaction and whether the terms of the transaction would otherwise require us to seek stockholder approval. In light of our mandatory May 1, 2014 liquidation date, the business combination with SME is likely to be the only opportunity for us to complete our initial business combination. The proposed business combination with SME will, if consummated, and any other business combination we pursue may cause a change in control of our ownership. As a result of the business combination with SME, assuming that no public shareholder exercises their conversion rights, the Company’s stockholders would own 10,068,750 shares of Santa Maria Energy Corporation’s common stock, or approximately 38.8% of its outstanding common stock immediately following the business combination with SME prior to the SME Private Equity Financing. At a minimum, the Hyde Park stockholders will own approximately 19.5% of the outstanding Santa Maria Energy Corporation common stock assuming maximum conversion of Hyde Park common stock and maximum Private Equity Financing. Furthermore, if the business combination with SME is not consummated, in connection with another business combination, we may issue a substantial number of shares of common stock or shares of preferred stock, or a combination of shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock, to complete such business combination. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. There are 39,931,250 authorized but unissued shares of common stock available for issuance. Upon consummation of the business combination with SME and the related private equity financing, we have agreed to issue up to approximately 26,150,000 shares of common stock. The issuance of shares of common stock or preferred stock: 8 • may significantly reduce the equity interest of our existing investors; • may subordinate the rights of holders of shares of common stock if we issue shares of preferred stock with rights senior to those afforded to our shares of common stock; • may cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our shares of common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we may not issue any shares of common stock or any securities convertible into common stock or any securities which participate in or are otherwise entitled in any manner to any of the proceeds in the trust account. If the net proceeds of our IPO not being held in the trust account, together with the interest in the trust account (net of taxes payable) which may be released to us for working capital purposes, are insufficient to allow us to operate until at least May 1, 2014, we may be unable to complete our initial business combination. If the net proceeds of our IPO not being held in the trust account, together with the interest in the trust account that may be released to us for working capital purposes, are insufficient to allow us to operate until at least May 1, 2014, we might not have sufficient funds to complete our merger with SME, or to fund our search for a target business if the merger with SME is not approved. The funds held in the trust account may not earn significant interest and, as a result, we may be limited to the funds held outside of the trust account to complete our merger with SME, or to fund our search for a target business if the merger with SME is not approved, or to pay our tax obligations. Of the net proceeds of our IPO and simultaneous private placement, approximately $1,000,000 was available to us initially outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. We depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with additional working capital we need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination, as well as to pay any tax obligations that we may owe. Interest rates on permissible investments for us have been less than 0.1% over the last several months. Accordingly, if we do not earn a sufficient amount of interest on the funds held in the trust account and use all of the funds held outside of the trust account, we may not have sufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close our initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our sponsors, officers or directors to operate or may be forced to liquidate. Our sponsors, officers and directors are under no obligation to provide these funds and there is no assurance that these funds would be made available to us. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per-share redemption price received by stockholders may be less than $10.50. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors and service providers we engage and prospective target businesses we negotiate with execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, they may not execute such agreements. Furthermore, even if such entities execute such agreements with us, they may seek recourse against the trust account. A court may not uphold the validity of such agreements. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders. Therefore, the per-share distribution from the trust account may be less than $10.50, due to such claims. 9 Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we may not be able to return to our public stockholders at least $10.50. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. If we have not completed our initial business combination by May 1, 2014, we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem 100% of the outstanding public shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account, including any interest but net of franchise and income taxes payable, divided by the number of then outstanding public shares, which redemption will completely extinguish public stockholders’ rights as stockholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any), subject to applicable law, and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining stockholders and our board of directors, dissolve and liquidate, subject (in the case of (ii) and (iii) above) to our obligations under Delaware law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. We may not properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of the date of distribution. Accordingly, third parties may seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after expiration of the May 1, 2014 deadline, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, and thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. Claims may be brought against us for these reasons. Our directors may decide not to enforce the indemnification obligations of our officers, resulting in a reduction in the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public stockholders. In the event that the proceeds in the trust account are reduced below $10.50 per public share and either of our officers asserts that he is unable to satisfy his obligations or that he has no indemnification obligations related to a particular claim, our independent directors would determine whether to take legal action against such individual to enforce such indemnification obligations. It is possible that our independent directors in exercising their business judgment may choose not to do so in any particular instance. If our independent directors choose not to enforce these indemnification obligations, the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public stockholders may be reduced below $10.50 per share. If we do not complete the business combination with SME, since we are not limited to a particular industry or target business with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. If we do not complete the business combination with SME, we may consummate an initial business combination with a company in any industry we choose and are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business which we may ultimately acquire. To the extent we complete our initial business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. If we complete our initial business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we may not properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. An investment in our shares may not ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. The requirement that the target business or businesses that we acquire must collectively have a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the balance of the funds in the trust account, net of tax obligations and deferred commissions, at the time of the execution of a definitive agreement for our initial business combination may limit the type and number of companies that we may complete such a business combination with. 10 Pursuant to the NASDAQ listing rules, the target business or businesses that we acquire must collectively have a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the balance of the funds in the trust account, net of tax obligations and deferred commissions, at the time of the execution of a definitive agreement for our initial business combination. This restriction may limit the type and number of companies that we may complete a business combination with. Our board of directors determined that this test was met in connection with the proposed business combination with SME. If we are unable to consummate the business combination with SME and if we are unable to locate a target business or businesses that satisfy this fair market value test, we may be forced to liquidate and you will only be entitled to receive your pro rata portion of the funds in the trust account. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following our initial business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after our initial business combination, our assessment of these individuals may not prove to be correct. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our key personnel, at least until we have consummated our business combination with SME or another initial business combination. We cannot assure you that any of our key personnel will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. In addition, none of our officers are required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, they will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including completing the business combination with SME or, if such business combination is not completed, identifying another potential business combination and monitoring the related due diligence. We do not have employment agreements with, or key-man insurance on the life of, any of our officers. The unexpected loss of the services of our key personnel could have a detrimental effect on us. If we consummate the business combination with SME, Laurence S. Levy, our chief executive officer, and Edward Levy, one of our directors, as well as another individual designated by Hyde Park, will remain as members of our board of directors. If the business combination with SME is not completed, the role of our key personnel after a business combination cannot presently be ascertained. Although Messrs. Laurence S. Levy, Edward Levy and another of our directors will serve as directors following the business combination with SME (and some of our key personnel may serve in senior management or advisory positions following another business combination, if the business combination with SME is not completed), most of the management of SME (or of another target business, if the business combination with SME is not completed) will remain in place. While we have closely scrutinized the individuals from SME who will remain in senior management and advisory positions after the business combination with SME, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals are not familiar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Similar risks could arise with individuals that remain in senior management and advisory positions after another business combination, if the business combination with SME is not completed. Our officers and directors may not have significant experience or knowledge regarding the jurisdiction or industry of the target business we may seek to acquire. SME is an independent energy company focused on the exploration and development of oil and natural gas in the Monterey Formation and the Diatomite reservoir within the Sisquoc formation in northern Santa Barbara County, California. We cannot assure you that our officers and directors have enough experience or sufficient knowledge relating to SME or its industry to make an informed decision regarding the business combination with SME. Accordingly, our management may not have properly analyzed the risks attendant with SME’s business. While our board of directors believes that the business combination with SME is in our stockholders’ best interest, as a result of the foregoing, the business combination with SME may not prove to be so. If we do not complete the business combination with SME, we may consummate a business combination with a target business in any geographic location or industry we choose and, therefore, similar risks may arise. If we become aware of another potential business combination outside of the geographic location or industry where our officers and directors have their most experience, our management may determine to retain consultants and advisors with experience in such industries to assist in the evaluation of such business combination and in our determination of whether or not to proceed with such a business combination. However, our management is not required to engage such consultants and advisors in any situation. If the business combination with SME is not completed and we enter into a business combination with another target business, our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with another business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following a business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous. 11 Our key personnel have not entered into any employment or consulting agreements with us or SME in connection with the proposed business combination with SME. However, if the business combination with SME is not completed and we enter into a business combination with another target business, our key personnel will be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements or other appropriate arrangements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to the company after the consummation of the business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate our initial business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We presently expect each of our employees to devote such amount of time as they reasonably believe is necessary to our business. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of our initial business combination. All of our officers and directors are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate our initial business combination. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. Certain of our officers, directors and their affiliates may become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Members of our management team may in the future have affiliations with companies that are engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Accordingly, they may participate in transactions and have obligations that may be in conflict or competition with our consummation of our initial business combination. As a result, a potential target business may be presented by our management team to another entity prior to its presentation to us and we may not be afforded the opportunity to engage in a transaction with such target business. The shares beneficially owned by our officers and directors will not participate in liquidation distributions and, therefore, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for our initial business combination. Our officers and directors have waived their right to convert their founders’ shares and sponsors’ shares, or to sell such shares to us in any tender offer, or to receive distributions with respect to such shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate our initial business combination. Accordingly, the founders’ shares and sponsors’ shares will be worthless if we do not consummate our initial business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. NASDAQ may delist our shares from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our shares and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our shares of common stock are currently listed on NASDAQ, a national securities exchange. However, our shares may not continue to be listed on NASDAQ in the future prior to an initial business combination. Additionally, in connection with our initial business combination, it is likely that NASDAQ will require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We may not be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. On January 2, 2014 and January 29, 2014, we received notices from NASDAQ that, as a result of our failure to hold an annual meeting and NASDAQ’s determination that we have less than 300 public stockholders, NASDAQ has determined to delist our securities from the NASDAQ stock market. NASDAQ’s determinations have not resulted in the immediate delisting of our securities and we have commenced an appeal of NASDAQ’s determination. 12 If NASDAQ delists our shares from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our shares • reduced liquidity with respect to our shares • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our shares to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our shares; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number of products or services. We will acquire a single business if the business combination with SME is completed. If the business combination with SME is not completed, we still may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering. By consummating a business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. Alternatively, if the business combination with SME is not completed and we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses and such businesses are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete the business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights or sell their shares to us in a tender offer may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. If the business combination with SME is not completed and another business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise conversion rights or alternatively seek to sell their shares to us in a tender offer, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion or sales, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our initial business combination. In the event that the acquisition involves the issuance of our stock as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our stock to make up for a shortfall in funds. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. In light of our mandatory May 1, 2014 liquidation date, the business combination with SME is likely to be the only opportunity for us to complete our initial business combination. 13 We may be unable to consummate an initial business combination if a target business requires that we have a certain amount of cash at closing, in which case public stockholders may have to remain stockholders of our company and wait until our redemption of the public shares to receive a pro rata share of the trust account or attempt to sell their shares in the open market. In connection with the business combination with SME, each public stockholder (but not our sponsors, officers or directors) has the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash (subject to limitations) regardless of whether such stockholder votes for or against the business combination. We will consummate the business combination only if we have net tangible assets of at least $5,000,001 upon such consummation and a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock issued in our initial public offering voted are voted in favor of the business combination. In addition, it is a condition to the consummation of the business combination that after giving effect to the exercise of conversion rights by our stockholders, we shall have at least $40 million of cash in our trust account. Accordingly, if public stockholders owning more than 3,690,476 shares of our common stock exercise their conversion rights, we would not be able to consummate the business combination with SME. At the meeting to be called to approve our business combination with SME, public stockholders, together with any affiliates of theirs or any other person with whom they are acting in concert or as a “group,” will be restricted from seeking conversion rights with respect to more than 20% of the shares sold in our IPO. At the meeting to be called to approve the business combination with SME (or at a meeting to be called to approve another business combination, if the business combination with SME is not completed and we determine to seek shareholder approval of such business combination) we will offer each public stockholder (but not holders of our founders’ shares) the right to have his, her, or its shares of common stock converted into cash. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a public stockholder, together with any affiliate of his or any other person with whom he is acting in concert or as a “group” (as defined in Section 13(d) (3) of the Exchange Act) will be restricted from seeking conversion rights with respect to more than 20% of the shares sold in our IPO. Generally, in this context, a stockholder will be deemed to be acting in concert or as a group with another stockholder when such stockholders agree to act together for the purpose of acquiring, voting, holding or disposing of our equity securities. Accordingly, if you hold more than 20% of the shares sold in our IPO and our proposed business combination is approved, you will not be able to seek conversion rights with respect to the full amount of your shares and may be forced to hold such additional shares of common stock or sell them in the open market. The value of such additional shares may not appreciate over time following our initial business combination, and the market price of our shares of common stock may not exceed the per-share conversion price. We may use funds in our trust account to re-purchase shares at the closing of our business combination with SME, or another target business, from holders who have indicated an intention to convert their shares. If holders of shares sold in our IPO indicate an intention to vote against the proposed business combination with SME (or, if the business combination with SME is not completed, against another proposed business combination for which we seek shareholder approval) and/or seek conversion of their shares into cash, although we have no current intention to do so, we may privately negotiate arrangements to provide for the purchase of such shares at the closing of the business combination using funds held in the trust account. We will pay no more than the pro rata portion of the trust account to purchase such shares (plus any fees we may need to pay an aggregator to assist us with purchasing such shares). The purpose of such arrangements would be to increase the likelihood of satisfaction of the requirements that the holders of a majority of our shares of common stock outstanding vote in favor of a proposed business combination and that we have at least $5,000,001 of net tangible assets upon consummation of the business combination where it appears that such requirements would otherwise not be met. This may result in the approval of a business combination that may not otherwise have been possible. Additionally, as a consequence of such purchases, • the funds in our trust account that are so used will not be available to us after the business combination; and • the public “float” of our shares of common stock may be reduced and the number of beneficial holders of our securities may be reduced, which may make it difficult to obtain the quotation, listing or trading of our securities on a national securities exchange. Furthermore, because the stockholders who sell their shares in a privately negotiated transaction or pursuant to market transactions may receive a per share purchase price payable from the trust account that is not reduced by a pro rata share of the deferred commissions or income or other tax obligations payable, our remaining stockholders may bear the entire payment of such deferred commissions and franchise taxes and income taxes payable. That is, in connection with the proposed business combination with SME or another business combination, if we seek stockholder approval, the conversion price per share payable to public stockholders who elect to have their shares converted will be reduced by a larger percentage of the deferred commissions and taxes payable than it would have been in the absence of such privately negotiated or market transactions, and stockholders who do not elect to have their shares converted and remain our stockholders after the initial business combination will bear the economic burden of the deferred commissions and taxes payable because such amounts will be payable by us. 14 We are requiring stockholders who wish to convert their shares in connection with a proposed business combination to comply with specific requirements for conversion that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their conversion rights prior to the deadline for exercising their rights. In connection with the special stockholder meeting to be called to approve the proposed initial business combination with SME (or, if we are unable to complete the business combination with SME, another business combination for which we seek stockholder approval), each public stockholder will have the right, regardless of whether he is voting for or against such proposed business combination, to demand that we convert his shares into a pro rata share of the trust account. We are requiring public stockholders who wish to convert their shares in connection with a proposed business combination to either tender their certificates to our transfer agent at any time prior to the vote taken at the stockholder meeting relating to such business combination or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using the Depository Trust Company’s DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System. In order to obtain a physical stock certificate, a stockholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that stockholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical stock certificate. While we have been advised that it takes a short time to deliver shares through the DWAC System, this may not be the case. Accordingly, if it takes longer than we anticipate for stockholders to deliver their shares, stockholders who wish to convert may be unable to meet the deadline for exercising their conversion rights and thus may be unable to convert their shares. In addition, in order to determine whether a stockholder is acting in concert or as a group with another stockholder, we will require each public stockholder seeking to exercise conversion rights to certify to us whether such stockholder is acting in concert or as a group with any other stockholder. In connection with the meeting to be held to approve the business combination with SME, we will require public stockholders who wish to convert their shares to comply with specific requirements for conversion. As such, the converting stockholders may be unable to sell their securities when they wish to in the event that the proposed business combination with SME is not approved. In connection with the meeting held to approve a proposed business combination, we require public stockholders who wish to convert their shares to comply with specific requirements for conversion and such proposed business combination is not consummated, we will promptly return such certificates to the tendering public stockholders. Accordingly, investors who attempted to convert their shares in such a circumstance will be unable to sell their securities after the failed acquisition until we have returned their securities to them. The market price for our shares of common stock may decline during this time and you may not be able to sell your securities when you wish to, even while other stockholders that did not seek conversion may be able to sell their securities. If the business combination with SME is not consummated, because of our limited resources and structure, other companies may have a competitive advantage and we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. If the business combination with SME is not consummated, we expect to encounter intense competition from entities other than blank check companies having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that, if the business combination with SME is not consummated, there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, seeking stockholder approval of a business combination or engaging in a tender offer in connection with a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants and unit purchase options, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. In addition, in light of our mandatory May 1, 2014 liquidation date, the business combination with SME is likely to be the only opportunity for us to complete our initial business combination.. Any of the foregoing may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. The Merger Agreement provides, as a condition to SME’s obligation to consummate the business combination, that Hyde Park must maintain at least $40,000,000 in the trust account, after giving effect to the exercise of conversion rights by our public stockholders. If we fail to satisfy the foregoing condition, SME may terminate the Merger Agreement. If, because of payments made to converting stockholders, we fail to maintain a balance of at least $40,000,000 in the trust account, and SME waives the condition that we maintain the minimum amount of cash in our trust account, SME may need to raise additional capital through debt and/or equity financing. In addition, if the business combination with SME is not completed, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular future transaction. We may be required to seek additional financing to complete any such transaction. Financing may not be available to us or SME, as applicable, on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination 15 Our sponsors, officers and directors will control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our sponsors, officers and directors collectively own approximately 25.5% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. None of our sponsors, officers, directors or their affiliates has indicated any intention to purchase any shares of common stock from persons in the open market or in private transactions. However, our sponsors, officers, directors or their affiliates could determine in the future to make such purchases in the open market or in private transactions, to the extent permitted by law, in order to influence the vote. In connection with any vote for a proposed business combination, our sponsors, as well as all of our officers and directors, have agreed to vote the shares of common stock owned by them in favor of such proposed business combination. Our board of directors is divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. Accordingly, public stockholders will not be able to exercise their voting rights under corporate law until after the consummation of our initial business combination, which may not take place until May 1, 2014. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only half of the board of directors will be considered for election and our sponsors, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our sponsors will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of our initial business combination. We may not hold an annual meeting of stockholders until after the consummation of our initial business combination. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, and thus we may not be in compliance with Section 211(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which requires an annual meeting of stockholders be held for the purposes of electing directors in accordance with a company’s bylaws unless such election is made by written consent in lieu of such a meeting. Therefore, if our stockholders want us to hold an annual meeting prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, they may attempt to force us to hold one by submitting an application to the Delaware Court of Chancery in accordance with Section 211(c) of the Delaware General Corporation Law. If our stockholders exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares of common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect our initial business combination. Our sponsors are entitled to make a demand that we register the resale of the founders’ shares at any time commencing three months prior to the date on which their shares may be released from escrow. Additionally, our sponsors are entitled to demand that we register the resale of the sponsors’ shares and any shares our sponsors, officers, directors or their affiliates may be issued in payment of working capital loans made to us commencing on the date that we consummate our initial business combination. The presence of these additional shares of common stock trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate our initial business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our shares of common stock. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete our initial business combination. A company that, among other things, is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, trading or holding certain types of securities would be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (“Investment Company Act”). Since we have invested the proceeds held in the trust account, it is possible that we could be deemed an investment company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act. To this end, the proceeds held in the trust account may be invested by the trustee only in United States government treasury bills having a maturity of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act and that invest solely in U.S. treasuries. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act. 16 If we are nevertheless deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete our initial business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. Compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted. If our due diligence investigation of SME was inadequate, then stockholders could lose some or all of their investment. Even though we conducted a due diligence investigation of SME, it cannot be sure that this diligence surfaced all material issues that may be associated with SME or its business, or that it would be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary amount of due diligence, or that factors outside of SME and its business and outside of its control will not later arise. Further, if our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. The requirement that we complete our initial business combination by May 1, 2014 may give the current owners of SME or if not SME, then another target business, leverage over us in consummating our initial business combination. We have until May 1, 2014 to complete our initial business combination with SME, or if not SME, any new potential target business with which we enter into negotiations concerning a business combination will be aware of this requirement. Consequently, such target business may obtain leverage over us in negotiating a business combination, knowing that if we do not complete a business combination with that particular target business, we may be unable to complete a business combination with any other target business. This risk will increase as we get closer to the time limit referenced above. We have not obtained a fairness opinion with respect to our business combination with SME and therefore you may be relying solely on the judgment of our board of directors in approving a proposed business combination. We will only be required to obtain a fairness opinion with respect to the target business that we seek to acquire if it is an entity that is affiliated with any of our officers, directors or sponsors. In all other instances, we will have no obligation to obtain an opinion. Accordingly, investors will be relying solely on the judgment of our board of directors in approving a proposed business combination. In connection with our business combination with SME, we did not obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm as to the fair market value. In connection with our business combination with SME, we did not obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm, or another independent entity that commonly renders valuation opinions on the type of target business we are seeking to acquire, as to the fair market value of such target business if our board of directors independently determines that the target business complies with the 80% threshold. Accordingly, investors will be relying solely on the judgment of our board of directors in valuing such target business, and our board of directors may not properly value such target business. 17 Resources could be spent researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and may require that we have such system of internal controls audited. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. A target company may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our shares of common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (“JOBS Act”). We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years. However, if our non-convertible debt issued within a three year period or revenues exceeds $1 billion, or the market value of our shares of common stock that are held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million on the last day of the second fiscal quarter of any given fiscal year, we would cease to be an emerging growth company as of the following fiscal year. As an emerging growth company, we are not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and we are exempt from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Additionally, as an emerging growth company, we have elected to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until those standards apply to private companies. As such, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates. We cannot predict if investors will find our shares of common stock less attractive because we may rely on these provisions. If some investors find our shares of common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our shares and our share price may be more volatile. If we are unable to complete the business combination with SME and we effect our initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We may affect our initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States. If we did, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, including any of the following: • rules and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on individuals; • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • longer payment cycles; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • currency fluctuations and exchange controls; • challenges in collecting accounts receivable; 18 • cultural and language differences; • employment regulations; • crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; and • deterioration of political relations with the United States. We may not be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we are unable to do so, our operations may suffer. If we are unable to complete the business combination with SME and we effect our initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws applicable to such company will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. If we effect our initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws of the country in which such company operates will govern almost all of the material agreements relating to its operations. The target business may not be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available in this new jurisdiction. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Additionally, if we acquire a company located outside of the United States, it is likely that substantially all of our assets would be located outside of the United States and some of our officers and directors might reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. Our board of directors is divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. As a result, at a given annual meeting only half of the board of directors may be considered for election. Since our “staggered board” may prevent our stockholders from replacing a majority of our board of directors at any given annual meeting, it may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders. Moreover, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. Because we must furnish our stockholders with target business financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or international financial reporting standards, we will not be able to complete our initial business combination with prospective target businesses unless their financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or international financial reporting standards. The federal proxy rules require that a proxy statement with respect to a vote on a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports. We will include the same financial statement disclosure in connection with our tender offer documents, whether or not they are required under the tender offer rules. These financial statements may be required to be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, or international financial reporting standards, or IFRS, depending on the circumstances, and the historical financial statements may be required to be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. In our Merger S-4 we have provided financial statements of SME prepared in accordance with GAAP and audited under PCAOB standards. However, if we are unable to complete the business combination with SME, these financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses we may acquire. Changes in laws or regulations, or a failure to comply with any laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business, investments and results of operations. We are subject to laws and regulations enacted by national, regional and local governments. In particular, we will be required to comply with certain SEC and other legal requirements. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws and regulations may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws and regulations and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, as interpreted and applied, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 19 There may be tax consequences to our initial business combinations that may adversely affect us. Any business combination that we might undertake might not meet the statutory requirements of a tax-free reorganization, or the parties might not obtain the intended tax-free treatment upon a transfer of shares or assets. A non-qualifying reorganization could result in the imposition of substantial taxes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. ITEM 