Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our current level of indebtedness of our subsidiaries could adversely affect our financial condition. As of December 31, 2015, our indebtedness totaled approximately $1,207.8 million. This amount included our $300.0 million USD Notes and €375.0 million Euro Notes issued by our subsidiaries. This amount also included our $496.4 million 2021 Term Loan B issued on May 5, 2015, when our subsidiaries entered into our Senior Credit Facility. 33 Table of Contents The Senior Credit Facility also includes our 2020 Revolving Facility. As of December 31, 2015, we had no borrowings and had $311.5 million (net of $13.5 million outstanding letters of credit) of funds available for borrowings under the 2020 Revolving Facility. Several of our subsidiaries are also party to our Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility, for up to a total of $200.0 million in borrowings. As of December 31, 2015, there were no amounts outstanding, with approximately $123.4 million of funds available for borrowing under this facility, based on the pool of eligible accounts receivable. We are also a party to a short-term revolving credit facility through our subsidiary in China that provides uncommitted funds available for borrowing, subject to the availability of collateral. We had no outstanding borrowings under this revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2015. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including: · increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; · compromising our flexibility to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures, as compared to our competitors; · placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; and · increasing our cost of borrowing. In addition, a substantial portion of our subsidiaries current indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our assets, which may make it more difficult to secure additional borrowings at reasonable costs. If we default or declare bankruptcy, after these obligations are met, there may not be sufficient funds or assets to satisfy our subordinate interests, including those of our shareholders. The terms of our subsidiaries’ indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to change or to take certain actions. The Indenture and the credit agreement governing the Borrowers’ Senior Credit Facility contain a number of covenants imposing certain restrictions on our subsidiaries’ businesses. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. These agreements restrict, among other things, our subsidiaries’ ability to: · sell assets; · incur additional indebtedness; · pay dividends to Trinseo S.A.; · make investments or acquisitions; · incur liens; · repurchase or redeem capital stock; · engage in mergers or consolidations; · materially alter the business they conduct; · engage in transactions with affiliates; and · consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of their assets. The ability of our subsidiaries to comply with the covenants and financial ratios and tests contained in the Indenture and Credit Agreement, to pay interest on indebtedness, fund working capital, and make anticipated capital expenditures depends on our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available under our Senior Credit Facility to fund liquidity needs in an amount sufficient to enable them to service their indebtedness. Furthermore, if we need additional capital for general corporate purposes or to execute on an expansion strategy, there can be no assurance that this capital will be available on satisfactory terms or at all. A failure to repay amounts owed under the 2020 Revolving Facility or 2022 Senior Notes at maturity would result in a default. In addition, a breach of any of the covenants in the 2020 Revolving Facility or Indenture governing our 2022 Senior Notes or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or limits could result in a default. If a default occurs, lenders may refuse to lend us additional funds and the lenders or noteholders could declare all of the debt and any accrued interest and fees immediately due and payable. A default under one of our subsidiaries debt agreements may 34 Table of Contents trigger a cross-default under our other debt agreements. For more information regarding our indebtedness and liquidity, please see Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations— Indebtedness and Liquidity. To service our subsidiaries’ indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. If we are unable to execute on our business strategy and generate significant cash flow, we may be unable to service our indebtedness and repay in full the notes at maturity. To service their indebtedness, our subsidiaries will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash flow and service these debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, our future financial condition and operating performance. These factors depend partly on economic, financial, competitive conditions and on certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet our debt service obligations as well as fund necessary capital expenditures. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund these debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our subsidiaries’ indebtedness. We may not be able to affect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow our subsidiaries to meet their scheduled debt service obligations. The Senior Credit Facility and the Indenture governing our 2022 Senior Notes restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to dispose of assets and the use of proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. Therefore, our subsidiaries may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. Despite our subsidiaries’ current levels of indebtedness, we may incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our indebtedness. Although the Senior Credit Facility and the indenture governing our 2022 Senior Notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Also, we are not prevented from incurring obligations that do not constitute “indebtedness” as defined in the Senior Credit Facility or the Indenture, such as operating leases and trade payables. If new debt is added to our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the risks related to indebtedness that we now face could intensify. Our joint ventures may not operate according to their business plans if we or our partners fail to fulfill our or their obligations, or differences in views among our joint venture partners result in delayed decisions, which may adversely affect our results of operations and may force us to dedicate additional resources to these joint ventures. We currently participate in two joint ventures and may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. The nature of a joint venture requires us to share control with unaffiliated third parties. If our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations, the affected joint venture may not be able to operate according to its business plan. In that case, our results of operations may be adversely affected and we may be required to increase the level of our commitment to the joint venture. Differences in views among joint venture participants and our inability to unilaterally implement sales and productions strategies or determine cash distributions from our joint ventures may significantly impact short-term and longer term financial results, financial condition and the value of our ordinary shares. Regulatory and statutory changes applicable to our raw materials and products and our customers’ products could require material expenditures, changes in our operations and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in environmental, health and safety regulations, in jurisdictions where we manufacture and sell our products, could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. In addition to changes in regulations, health and safety concerns could increase the costs incurred by our customers to use our products and otherwise limit the use of these 35 Table of Contents products, which could lead to decreased demand for these products. Such a decrease in demand likely would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Materials such as acrylonitrile, ethylbenzene, styrene, butadiene, BPA and halogenated flame retardant are used in the manufacturing of our products and have come under scrutiny due to potentially significant or perceived health and safety concerns. The federal Toxic Substances Control Act, or the TSCA, is the primary law in the U.S. governing the manufacture, processing, use and distribution of our chemicals. Among other things, under the TSCA, the EPA has the authority to (i) require testing of chemicals that may present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment or are produced in substantial quantities, (ii) undertake pre-market review of, and impose restrictions as appropriate on, new chemicals prior to their commercial production and introduction into the marketplace, (iii) limit or prohibit the manufacture, use, distribution and disposal of existing substances, (iv) impose reporting and record keeping requirements to ensure continued access to new information on chemical substances, and (v) oversee export and import notice requirements. Other chemical control regimes continue to be enacted. The European Union’s REACH was followed by the enactment of similar chemical control laws in countries such as China, Japan, and Korea. These regulatory regimes currently require significant compliance expenditures by us, and changes applicable to our raw materials and products or our customers’ products could require significant additional expenditures by us, or changes in our operations. Our products are also used in a variety of end-uses that have specific regulatory requirements such as those relating to products that have contact with food or medical device end-uses. We and many of the applications for the products in the end markets in which we sell our products are regulated by various national and local rules, laws and regulations, such as the TSCA. Changes in regulations could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscations, recall or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products. Changes in environmental and safety laws and regulations banning or restricting the use of these residual materials in our products, or our customers’ products, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to appropriately manage safety, human health, product liability and environmental risks associated with our products, product life cycles and production processes could adversely impact employees, communities, stakeholders, our reputation and the results of our operations. We may be subject to losses due to liabilities or lawsuits related to contaminated land we own or operate or arising out of environmental damage or personal injuries associated with exposure to chemicals or the release of chemicals. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, and analogous state and foreign laws are designed to address the problems associated with contaminated land, especially inactive and abandoned hazardous waste sites listed on the “National Priorities List”, or NPL. Under CERCLA and similar statutes, the current or former owner or operator of a property contaminated by hazardous substance releases is subject to strict, unlimited, joint, several and retroactive liability for the investigation and remediation of the property, and also may be liable for natural resource damages associated with the releases. We also face the risk that individuals could seek damages for personal injury due to exposure to chemicals at our facilities, chemicals which have been released from our facilities, chemicals otherwise owned or controlled by us, or chemicals which allegedly migrated from products containing our materials. Legal claims and regulatory actions could subject us to both civil and criminal penalties, which could affect our product sales, reputation and profitability. There are several properties which we now own on which Dow has been conducting remediation to address historical contamination. Those properties include Allyn’s Point, Connecticut; Dalton, Georgia; Livorno, Italy; and Guaruja, Brazil. There are other properties with historical contamination that are owned by Dow that we lease for our operations, including our facility in Midland, Michigan. While we did not assume the liabilities associated with these properties in the U.S., because CERCLA and similar laws can impose liability for contamination on the current owner or operator of a property, even if it did not create the contamination, there is a possibility that a governmental authority or private party could seek to include us in an action or claim for remediation or damages, even though the contamination may have occurred prior to our ownership or occupancy. While Dow has agreed to indemnify us for liability for releases of hazardous materials that occurred prior to our separation from Dow, the indemnity is subject to monetary and temporal limitations, and we cannot be certain that Dow will fully honor the indemnity or that the indemnity will be sufficient to satisfy all claims that we may incur. In addition, we face the risk that future claims might fall partially or fully outside of the scope of the indemnity, particularly if there is a release of hazardous materials that occurs in the 36 Table of Contents future or at any time after the closing of the Acquisition or if the condition requiring remediation is attributable to a combination of events or operations occurring prior to and after the closing of the Acquisition. The environmental liabilities at a particular site could increase as a result of, among other things, changes in laws and regulations, modifications to the site’s investigation and remediation plans, unanticipated construction problems, identification of additional areas or quantities of contamination, increases in labor, equipment and technology costs, significant changes in the financial condition of Dow or other responsible parties and the outcome of any related legal and administrative proceedings to which we may become a party. Any increase in liability may be outside the scope of the indemnity provided by Dow, resulting in increased costs payable by us. It is not possible for us to reasonably estimate the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental or other contingent matters. Accruals for environmental matters are recorded by us when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based on current law and existing technologies. Risks are inherent in the chemical business, particularly risks associated with safety, health and the environment. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (“EPA”) Risk Management Program (“RMP”) requires facilities that produce, handle, process, distribute or store certain highly hazardous chemicals to develop a risk management plan and program in the event of an accidental release of such chemicals. RMP also requires facilities to assess potential impacts to off-site populations in the event of a credible worst-case release and to document the policies, procedures, equipment and work practices in place to mitigate identified risks. Similar risk management requirements are imposed under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, which contains chemical emergency response planning, accident release and other reporting and notification requirements applicable to our facility. In addition, we are subject to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration Process Safety Management standard, which requires the development of a program to manage workplace risks associated with highly hazardous chemicals. Similar laws apply to many of our international facilities. Failure to comply with such laws could subject us to both civil and criminal penalties, which could affect our product sales, reputation and profitability. We may be subject to claims with respect to workplace exposure, workers’ compensation and other health and safety matters. Volatility in the cost of the raw materials utilized for our products or disruption in the supply of the raw materials may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations can be directly affected positively and negatively by volatility in the cost of our raw materials, which are subject to global supply and demand and other factors beyond our control. Our principal raw materials (benzene, ethylene, butadiene, BPA and styrene) together represent approximately 56% of our total cost of goods sold. Volatility in the cost of these raw materials makes it more challenging to manage pricing and pass the increases on to our customers in a timely manner. We believe that rapid changes in pricing also can affect the volume our customers consume. As a result, our gross profit and margins could be adversely affected. Styrene, a principal raw material purchased and produced by us, is used in the production of polystyrene, ABS, SAN, SB latex and our rubber products and, like its principal raw materials, ethylene and benzene, is subject to a volatile market. The wider the styrene to benzene and ethylene spread, with styrene more than benzene and ethylene, the more profitable it is to produce styrene. Crude oil prices also impact our raw material costs. Generally, higher crude oil prices lead to higher costs of raw materials, although some raw materials are impacted less than others. Market volatility also impacts our accounting for our inventories. We use either our cost to us or market price, whichever is lower, with cost being determined on the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method. As a result, in periods of rapidly declining cost of inventories, the FIFO impact on our reported earnings may be negative. Similarly, in periods of rapidly increasing cost of inventories, the effects of the FIFO method could skew our results of operations, causing them to appear more positive than the actual results. If the availability of any of our principal raw materials is limited, we may be unable to produce some of our products in the quantities demanded by our customers, which could have an adverse effect on plant utilization and our sales of products requiring such raw materials. Butadiene prices may be and in the past have been highly volatile. In some cases, market participants have had difficulty securing their supply. While butadiene supply over the past year has not been limited, this trend could reverse with increases in rubber demand. 37 Table of Contents Suppliers may have temporary limitations preventing them from meeting our butadiene requirements, and we may not be able to obtain substitute supplies of butadiene from alternative suppliers in a timely manner or on favorable terms. The quantity of butadiene available in any one region is dependent on the raw material inputs and operating rates of the ethylene crackers. Raw material inputs to the crackers (either ethane or naphtha) depend on the flexibility of the cracker to use various feeds and the economics of the available raw materials. In June 2010, we entered into long-term supply agreements (10 years) with Dow for critical raw materials ethylene, benzene, and butadiene. A five-year BPA contract has been extended until 2020. These raw materials and other less critical materials amount to approximately 29% of our raw materials (based on aggregate purchase price). The remainder is purchased via other third-party suppliers on a global basis. As our Dow contracts and other third-party contracts expire, we may be unable to renew these contracts or obtain new long-term supply agreements on terms comparable or favorable to us, depending on market conditions, which may significantly impact our operations. In addition, many of our long-term contracts contain provisions that allow our suppliers to limit the amount of raw materials shipped to us below the contracted amount in force majeure circumstances. If we are required to obtain alternate sources for raw materials because Dow or any other supplier is unwilling or unable to perform under raw material supply agreements or if a supplier terminates its agreements with us, we may not be able to obtain these raw materials from alternative suppliers in a timely manner or be able to enter into long-term supply agreements on terms comparable or favorable to us. Dow provides significant operating and other services, and certain raw materials used in the production of our products, under agreements that are important to our business. The failure of Dow to perform its obligations, or the termination of these agreements, could adversely affect our operations. Prior to June 17, 2010, we were operated by Dow, which has provided and continues to provide services under certain agreements that are important to our business. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, purchases from and other charges paid to Dow and its affiliated companies (excluding those under the SAR MOSA AR MOD5 Agreement, and site services agreements) were approximately $999.4 million, $1,910.8 million, and $2,030.3 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, sales to Dow and its affiliated companies were approximately $227.0 million, $343.8 million, and $294.7 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, we incurred expenses totaling $244.8 million, $285.2 million, and $306.2 million, respectively, under the SAR MOSA, AR MOD5 Agreement, and site services agreements (which include utilities), including $194.1 million, $233.7 million, and $235.1 million, respectively, for both the variable and fixed cost components of the site service agreements and $50.7 million, $51.5 million, $71.1 million, respectively, covering all other agreements. We are a party to: · an outsourcing service agreement pursuant to which Dow provides certain administrative and business services to us for our operations; · supply and sales agreements pursuant to which Dow, among other things, provides us with raw materials, including ethylene, benzene, butadiene and BPA; and · an operating services agreement pursuant to which Dow will operate and maintain certain of our facilities at Rheinmunster, Germany as well as employ and provide almost all of the staff for this facility. Under the terms of the above agreements, either party is permitted to terminate the applicable agreement in a variety of situations, including in the event of the other party’s uncured material breach, insolvency, change of control or cessation of operations. Should Dow fail to provide these services or raw materials, or should any of the above agreements be terminated, we would be forced to obtain these services and raw materials from third parties or provide them ourselves. Additionally, if Dow terminates agreements pursuant to which we are obligated to provide certain services, we may lose the fees received by us under these agreements. The failure of Dow to perform its obligations under, or the termination of, any of these contracts could adversely affect our operations and, depending on market conditions at the time of any such termination, we may not be able to enter into substitute arrangements in a timely manner, or on terms as favorable to us. 38 Table of Contents We are party to certain license agreements with Dow relating to intellectual property that is essential to our business. Because of this relationship, we may have limited ability to expand our use of certain intellectual property beyond the field of the license or to police infringement that may be harmful to our business. In connection with the Acquisition, we acquired ownership of, or in some cases, a worldwide right and license to use, certain patents, patent applications and other intellectual property of Dow that were used by Dow to operate our business segments or held by Dow primarily for the benefit of our business segments, prior to the Acquisition. Generally, we acquired ownership of the intellectual property that was primarily used in our business segments and acquired a license to a more limited set of intellectual property that had broader application within Dow beyond our core business segments. Our license from Dow is perpetual, irrevocable, fully paid, and royalty-free. Furthermore, our license from Dow is exclusive within our business segments for certain patents and patent applications that were used by Dow primarily in the Styron business prior to the Acquisition, subject to licenses previously granted by Dow, and to certain retained rights of Dow, including Dow’s retained right to use patents and patent applications outside of our business segments and for internal consumption by Dow. Our license from Dow relates to polymeric compositions, manufacturing processes and end applications for the polymeric compositions; and is limited to use in defined areas corresponding to our current business segments excluding certain products and end-use application technology retained by Dow. Our ability to develop, manufacture or sell products and technology outside of these defined areas may be impeded by the intellectual property rights that have been retained by Dow, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we may not be able to enforce, and Dow may be unwilling to enforce, this intellectual property that has been retained by Dow where infringement could also impact our business and competitive position. Hazards associated with chemical manufacturing could adversely affect our operations. Due to the nature of our business, we are exposed to the hazards associated with chemical manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. These hazards could lead to an interruption or suspension of operations and have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on us as a whole. Potential hazards include the following: piping or storage tank leaks and ruptures; mechanical failures; employee exposure to hazardous substances; and chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases. There is also a risk that one or more of our key raw materials or one or more of our products may be found to have currently unrecognized toxicological or health-related impact on the environment or on our customers or employees. These hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to property and contamination of the environment, which could lead to government fines or work stoppage injunctions and lawsuits by injured persons. If such actions are determined to be adverse to us, we may have inadequate insurance to cover such claims, or we may have insufficient cash flow to pay for such claims. Such an outcome could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our end markets are highly competitive, and we may lose market share to other producers or to producers of other products that can be substituted for our products. Our industry is highly competitive and we face significant competition from large international producers, as well as from smaller regional competitors. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as product quality, service and price. Our competitors may improve their competitive position in our core end-use markets by successfully introducing new products, improving their manufacturing processes or expanding their capacity or manufacturing facilities. Additionally, increases in the costs of our primary raw materials, such as butadiene and styrene, could allow our competitors to offer products made from more cost effective chemistries. Some of our competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products if their costs are lower than our costs. Some of our competitors’ financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources and such competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market condition. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. If we are unable to keep pace with our competitors’ product and manufacturing process innovations, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, consolidation of our competitors or customers may result in reduced demand for our products or make it more difficult for us to compete with our competitors. If we are unable to successfully compete with other producers of our products or if other products can be successfully substituted for our products, our sales may decline. 39 Table of Contents Compliance with extensive and evolving environmental, health and safety laws may require substantial expenditures. We use large quantities of hazardous substances, generate hazardous wastes and emit wastewater and air pollutants in our manufacturing operations. Consequently, our operations are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations at both the national and local level in multiple jurisdictions. Many of these laws and regulations have become more stringent over time and the costs of compliance with these requirements may increase, including costs associated with any capital investments for pollution control facilities. In addition, our production facilities require operating permits that are subject to periodic renewal and, in circumstances of noncompliance, may be subject to revocation. The necessary permits may not be issued or continue in effect, and any issued permits may contain more stringent limitations that restrict our operations or that require further expenditures to meet the permit requirements. This continuing focus on climate change in jurisdictions in which we operate could result in new, potentially diverging or inconsistent, environmental regulations that may negatively affect us. Additional future regulation of greenhouse gases in the U.S. could occur pursuant to future international treaty obligations, regulatory changes under the federal Clean Air Act or other existing legislation, federal, state or regional adoption of greenhouse gas regulatory schemes, or any combination of the foregoing or otherwise. This could cause us to incur additional costs in complying with any new regulations, which may adversely impact our operations and financial condition. Compliance with more stringent environmental requirements would likely increase our costs of transportation and storage of raw materials and finished products, as well as the costs of storage and disposal of wastes. Additionally, we may incur substantial costs, including penalties, fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions and remediation costs, or experience interruptions in our operations for failure to comply with these laws or permit requirements. Conditions in the global economy and capital markets may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our products are sold in markets that are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as sales of automotive and construction products. Downturns in general economic conditions can cause fluctuations in demand for our products, product prices, volumes and margins. A decline in the demand for our products or a shift to lower-margin products due to deteriorating economic conditions could adversely affect sales of our products and our profitability and could also result in impairments of certain of our assets. Our business and operating results were severely affected by the global recession beginning in 2008. We continue to be impacted by turbulence in the credit markets, dislocations in the housing and commercial real estate markets, fluctuating commodity prices, volatile exchange rates and other challenges currently affecting the global economy and our customers. Instability in financial and commodity markets throughout the world has caused, among other things, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations and pricing volatility of others, volatile energy and raw materials costs, geopolitical issues and failure and the potential failure of major financial institutions. In addition, the ongoing sovereign debt crisis affecting various countries in the European Union is creating further uncertainties in the global credit markets. Deterioration in the financial and credit market heightens the risk of customer bankruptcies and delay in payment. We are unable to predict the duration of the current economic conditions or their effects on financial markets, our business and results of operations. If economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 40 Table of Contents Production at our manufacturing facilities could be disrupted for a variety of reasons. Disruptions could expose us to significant losses or liabilities. The hazards and risks of disruption associated with chemical manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes exist in our operations and the operations of other occupants with whom we share manufacturing sites. These potential risks of disruption include, but are not necessarily limited to: · pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures; · explosions and fires; · inclement weather and natural disasters; · terrorist attacks; · failure of mechanical, process safety and pollution control equipment; · chemical spills and other discharge or releases of toxic or hazardous substance or gases; and · exposure to toxic chemicals. These hazards could expose employees, customers, the community and others to toxic chemicals and other hazards, contaminate the environment, damage property, result in personal injury or death, lead to an interruption or suspension of operations, damage our reputation and adversely affect the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or us as a whole, and result in the need for remediation, governmental enforcement, regulatory shutdowns, the imposition of government fines and penalties and claims brought by governmental entities or third parties. Legal claims and regulatory actions could subject us to both civil and criminal penalties, which could affect our product sales, reputation and profitability. Although we have environmental, health and safety compliance and management systems to reduce potential risks and emergency response and crisis management plans in place, these systems and plans may not address or foresee all potential risks or causes of disruption. If disruptions occur, alternative facilities with sufficient capacity or capabilities may not be available, may cost substantially more or may take a significant time to start production. Each of these scenarios could negatively affect our business and financial performance. If one of our key manufacturing facilities is unable to produce our products for an extended period of time, our sales may be reduced by the shortfall caused by the disruption and we may not be able to meet our customers’ needs, which could cause them to seek other suppliers. Furthermore, to the extent a production disruption occurs at a manufacturing facility that has been operating at or near full capacity, the resulting shortage of our product could be particularly harmful because production at the manufacturing facility may not be able to reach levels achieved prior to the disruption. Although we maintain property, business interruption, comprehensive general liability, environmental impairment liability and other insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we may not be fully insured against all potential causes of disruption due to limitations and exclusions in our policies. While the hazards associated with chemical manufacturing have not resulted in incidents that have significantly disrupted our operations or exposed us to significant losses or liabilities since the Acquisition, there can be no assurances we will not suffer such losses in the future. We could be subject to changes in our tax rates and the adoption of tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities that may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to taxes in Luxembourg, the U.S., and numerous other foreign jurisdictions where our subsidiaries are organized. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws or their interpretation, such as interpretations as to the legality of tax advantages granted under the European Union ("EU") state aid rules. Our tax returns and other tax matters are subject to examination by local tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If our effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of the taxes owed by us is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. 41 Table of Contents Any increase in the cost of natural gas or electricity may adversely affect our results of operations. We use natural gas and electricity to operate our facilities and generate heat and steam for our various manufacturing processes. Natural gas prices have experienced significant volatility in the past several years. Wide fluctuations in natural gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty, and other factors, both domestic and foreign, that are beyond our control. In addition, natural gas is often a substitute for petroleum-based energy supplies. Future increases in the price of petroleum (resulting from increased demand, political instability or other factors) may result in significant additional increases in the price of natural gas. In addition, electricity prices are generally affected by increases in the price of petroleum. Any increase in the cost of natural gas or electricity could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to renew all necessary licenses, certificates, approvals and permits for our operations. Our operation is subject to various licenses, certificates, approvals and permits in different foreign jurisdictions. There is no assurance that we will be able to renew our licenses, certificates, approvals and permits upon their expiration. The eligibility criteria for such license, certificates, approvals and permits may change from time to time and may become more stringent. In addition, new requirements for licenses, certificates, approvals and permits may come into effect in the future. The introduction of any new and/or more stringent laws, regulation, licenses, certificates, approvals and permits requirements relevant to our business operations may significantly escalate our compliance and maintenance costs or may preclude us to continue with our existing operations or may limit or prohibit us from expanding our business. Any such event may have an adverse effect to our business, financial results and future prospects. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and to assist in the effective prevention of fraud. Any inability by us to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. We must annually evaluate its internal procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management and auditors to assess the effectiveness of internal controls. If we fail to remedy or maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the work necessary to fully comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or that our management and external auditors will continue to conclude that the Company's internal controls are effective. Our business involves risk of exposure to product liability claims. Even though we are generally a materials supplier rather than a manufacturer of finished goods, the development, manufacture and sales of specialty emulsion polymers and plastics by us involve inherent risks of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls and related adverse publicity. While we attempt to protect ourselves from such claims and exposures by our adherence to standards and specifications and in our contractual negotiations, there can be no assurance that our efforts in this regard will ultimately protect us from any such claims. For instance, a customer may attempt to seek contribution from us due to a product liability claim brought against them by a consumer, or a consumer may bring a product liability claim directly against us. A product liability claim or judgment against us could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, affect consumer or customer confidence in our products, and divert management’s attention from other responsibilities. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us in excess of our insurance coverage payments, for which we are not otherwise indemnified, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The insurance that we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures. We maintain insurance typical of similarly situated companies in our industry but such insurance may not cover all risks associated with the operation of our business or our manufacturing process and the related use, storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes in or from our manufacturing sites or our distribution centers. While 42 Table of Contents we have purchased what we deem to be adequate limits of coverage and broadly worded policies, our coverage is subject to limitations, including self-insured retentions or deductibles and maximum limits and liabilities covered. Notwithstanding diligent efforts to successfully procure specialty coverage for environmental liability and remediation, we may incur losses beyond the limits or outside the terms of coverage of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental remediation. In addition, from time to time, various types of insurance for companies in the specialty chemicals industry have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases, at all. We are potentially at additional risk if one or more of our insurance carriers fail. Additionally, severe disruptions in the domestic and global financial markets could adversely impact the ratings and survival of some insurers. Future downgrades in the ratings of enough insurers could adversely impact both the availability of appropriate insurance coverage and its cost. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, if at all, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain. We are subject to customs, international trade, export control, antitrust, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment laws that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. We are subject to numerous regulations, including customs and international trade laws, export/import control laws, and associated regulations. These laws and regulations limit the countries in which we can do business; the persons or entities with whom we can do business; the products which we can buy or sell; and the terms under which we can do business, including anti-dumping restrictions. In addition, we are subject to antitrust laws and zoning and occupancy laws that regulate manufacturers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of our products, the operation of factories and warehouse facilities and our relationship with our customers, suppliers and competitors. If any of these laws or regulations were to change or were violated by our management, employees, suppliers, buying agents or trading companies, the costs of certain goods could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our goods, be subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our products and hurt our business and negatively impact results of operations. In addition, in some areas we benefit from certain trade protections, including anti-dumping protection and the European Union’s Authorized Economic Operator program, which provides expedited customs treatment for materials crossing national borders. If we were to lose these protections, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in statutory minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could negatively impact our profitability. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effects on our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures or modify our business practices to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, which may increase our costs and materially limit our ability to operate our business. We are dependent on the continued service and recruitment of key executives, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management team, including Christopher D. Pappas, our President and Chief Executive Officer, who is also currently acting as our Interim Chief Financial Officer. At this time, we are also actively recruiting for a Chief Financial Officer. Although we engage in executive succession planning and have entered into agreements with each member of our senior management team that restrict their ability to compete with us should they decide to leave our Company, we cannot be sure that any member of our senior management team will remain with us, or that they will not seek to compete with us in the future. The loss of members of our senior management team or our inability to hire qualified management personnel in a timely manner could impair our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy, cause us to lose customers and reduce revenue, or lead to employee morale problems and/or the loss of additional key employees. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly impact our results of operations and may significantly affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. Our operations are conducted by subsidiaries in many countries. The results of the operations and the financial position of these subsidiaries are reported in the relevant foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. The main currencies to which we are exposed are the euro, the British pound, Chinese renminbi, Indian rupee, Korean won, Brazilian real, and Swedish krona. 43 Table of Contents The exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. A depreciation of these currencies against the U.S. dollar, in particular the euro, will decrease the U.S. dollar equivalent of the amounts derived from these operations reported in our consolidated financial statements and an appreciation of these currencies will result in a corresponding increase in such amounts. Because some of our raw material costs are procured in U.S. dollars rather than on these currencies, depreciation of these currencies may have an adverse effect on our profit margins or our reported results of operations. Conversely, to the extent that we are required to pay for goods or services in foreign currencies, the appreciation of such currencies against the U.S. dollar will tend to negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the comparability of our results of operations between financial periods. We incur currency translation risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or sale transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. From time to time, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge fluctuations associated with certain monetary assets and liabilities, primarily accounts receivable, accounts payable and certain intercompany obligations. However, attempts to hedge against foreign currency fluctuation risk may be unsuccessful and result in an adverse impact to our operating results. Given the volatility of exchange rates, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively manage our currency translation risks or that any volatility in currency exchange rates will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may engage in strategic acquisitions or dispositions of certain assets and/or businesses that could affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We may selectively pursue complementary acquisitions and joint ventures, each of which inherently involves a number of risks and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: · potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; · difficulty with integration of personnel and financial and other systems; · hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and · increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. In addition, we may encounter unforeseen obstacles or costs in the integration of acquired businesses. Also, the presence of one or more material liabilities of an acquired company that are unknown to us at the time of acquisition may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our acquisition and joint venture strategy may not be successfully received by customers, and we may not realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions or joint ventures. We may also opportunistically pursue dispositions of certain assets and/or businesses, which may involve material amounts of assets or lines of business, and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. If any such dispositions were to occur, under the terms of the credit agreement governing our Senior Credit Facility and the Indenture, we may be required to apply the proceeds of the sale to repay any borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility or our 2022 Senior Notes. Because our business operations are conducted entirely through our subsidiaries and joint ventures, we are largely dependent on our receipt of distributions and dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries and joint ventures for cash to fund all of our operations and expenses. Trinseo S.A., and its subsidiaries and the issuers of its outstanding debt, Trinseo Materials Operating S.C.A. and Trinseo Materials Finance, Inc., are each holding companies without business operations. Therefore, our revenues are generated through business conducted through other operating subsidiaries and joint ventures. As a result, our subsidiaries’ ability to service their debt or to make future dividend payments, if any, is largely dependent on the earnings of our operating subsidiaries and joint ventures and the payment of those earnings to them in the form of dividends, loans or advances and through repayment of loans or advances from us. Payments to us by our operating subsidiaries and joint ventures will be contingent upon our subsidiaries’ or joint ventures’ earnings and other business considerations. Furthermore, the Credit Agreement governing our Senior Credit Facility and the Indenture for the 2022 Senior Notes does restrict the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to us. In addition, each of our subsidiaries and joint ventures is a distinct legal entity. Therefore, there may be significant tax and other legal or regulatory developments in the future that may impact the ability of foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures to continue to remit money to us. 44 Table of Contents Americas Styrenics LLC, which is one of our joint ventures, is among the parties subject to an ongoing government antitrust investigation by the United States Postal Service Office of Inspector General, and the United States Department of Justice, involving the polystyrene market in North America, the results of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In May 2015, Americas Styrenics, our 50%-owned joint venture, received a subpoena from the United States Postal Service Office of Inspector General in coordination with the U.S. Department of Justice (collectively the “Government”) requesting documents regarding its involvement and participation in the market for polystyrene. The subpoena received by Americas Styrenics does not seek information regarding the market for styrene monomer. The Government has informed Americas Styrenics that similar subpoenas have been sent to other companies that operate in the polystyrene market. Under the joint venture agreement, we granted Americas Styrenics the exclusive rights to manufacture and sell polystyrene in North America and South America. Equity earnings attributable to Americas Styrenics was $135.3 million, $50.3 million, and $39.4 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We estimate that the contribution to Trinseo’s equity earnings from Americas Styrenics’ polystyrene business was approximately 55% in 2015, approximately 87% in 2014 and approximately 0% in 2013. This translates to a contribution from Americas Styrenics’ polystyrene business to Trinseo’s Adjusted EBITDA of approximately 15% in 2015, approximately 17% in 2014 and approximately 0% in 2013. We understand that Americas Styrenics is fully cooperating with the Government’s investigation and has delivered all requested documents in response to the subpoena. Further, Americas Styrenics has informed us that it has completed its own internal investigation and is unaware of any improper activity. We have reviewed the substance of Americas Styrenics’ internal investigation and, based on this information, have no reason to believe any improper activity occurred. Furthermore, we believe that the industry dynamics present in the polystyrene market are consistent with legitimate competitive market activity and not the result of anti-competitive actions or activity. Notwithstanding our current understanding of the facts, this matter remains open with the Government and there can be no assurance that other facts will not come to light that result in Americas Styrenics being determined to have violated applicable law. As a result, we are unable to make any predictions regarding the ultimate outcome of the investigation. Other than the subpoena, to date there has been no complaint or demand of Americas Styrenics by the Government regarding the matters that are the subject of the investigation. In addition, to date we have not been served with a subpoena in connection with this ongoing investigation nor have we otherwise been contacted by the Government or other enforcement authorities. However, there is no assurance that we won’t be served with a subpoena or otherwise become involved in this investigation in the future. Based on its findings in the investigation, the Government may (i) close the file, (ii) seek a consent decree to remedy issues it believes violate the antitrust laws, or (iii) file suit against Americas Styrenics for violating the antitrust laws, seeking injunctive or monetary relief. If injunctive and/or monetary relief were granted, depending on its scope, it could affect the manner in which Americas Styrenics’ business is operated and potentially force changes to Americas Styrenics’ business practices or operations. In addition, Americas Styrenics and its executives could be subject to criminal prosecution and if Americas Styrenics is found to have violated one or more laws, it could be subject to a variety of fines, penalties, and related administrative sanctions and private plaintiffs may seek treble damages. Private plaintiffs may emerge and seek recourse against us, merely as a joint venture owner of Americas Styrenics, and if this investigation continues over a long period of time, it could divert the attention of Americas Styrenics and our management from day-to-day operations and impose significant administrative burdens. Any of these consequences could damage Americas Styrenics’ and our reputation and impair Americas Styrenics’ ability to conduct its business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers, and the loss of customers could adversely affect our sales and profitability. With some exceptions, our business is based primarily upon individual sales orders with our customers. As such, our customers could cease buying our products from us at any time, for any reason, with little or no recourse. If multiple customers elected not to purchase products from us, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 45 Table of Contents We could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers or lose customers as a result of the failure of our products to meet certain quality specifications. Our products provide important performance attributes to our customers’ products. If a product fails to perform in a manner consistent with quality specifications, a customer could seek replacement of the product or damages for costs incurred as a result of the product failing to perform as designed and marketed. A successful claim or series of claims against us could cause reputational harm and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could result in a loss of one or more customers. If we are not able to continue the technological innovation and successful commercial introduction of new products, our customers may turn to other producers to meet their requirements. Our industry and the end markets into which we sell our products experience periodic technological changes and ongoing product improvements. Our customers may introduce new generations of their own products or require new technological and increased performance specifications that would require us to develop customized products. Innovation or other changes in our customers’ product performance requirements may also adversely affect the demand for our products. Our future growth will depend on our ability to gauge the direction of the commercial and technological progress in all key end markets, and upon our ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market products in such changing end markets. We need to continue to identify, develop and market innovative products on a timely basis to replace existing products in order to maintain our profit margins and our competitive position. We may not be successful in developing new products and technology that successfully compete with these materials, and our customers may not accept any of our new products. If we fail to keep pace with evolving technological innovations or fail to modify our products in response to our customers’ needs, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of reduced sales of our products. Our business relies on intellectual property and other proprietary information and our failure to adequately protect or effectively enforce our rights could harm our competitive advantages with respect to the manufacturing of some of our products. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to protect, preserve and enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary information of our business. However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property and other proprietary information without our authorization or independently developing intellectual property and other proprietary information that is similar to or competes with ours, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same degree as in the United States. Any inability by us to effectively prevent the unauthorized use of our intellectual property and other proprietary information by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, cause us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. If it becomes necessary for us to initiate litigation to protect our proprietary rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. Any patents we own, or that are exclusively licensed to us, that have been issued or may be issued in the future, may not provide us with any competitive advantage and may be challenged by third parties. Our competitors or others also may seek to oppose or challenge the validity of our pending patent applications or issued patents. Our competitors also may attempt to design around our patents or copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property and other proprietary information. Moreover, our competitors may already hold or have applied for patents in the United States or other countries in which we operate that, if enforced following their issuance, could possibly limit our ability to manufacture or sell one or more of our products in the jurisdictions in which such patents are issued. In general, competitors or other parties may, from time to time, assert issued patents or other intellectual property rights against us. If we are legally determined, at some future date, to infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of another party, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing use, or attempt to obtain a license of such intellectual property from the owner of such intellectual property. With respect to our pending patent applications, we may not be successful in securing patents for the patent claims we are pursuing. Our failure to secure these patents may limit our ability to protect inventions that these applications were intended to cover. In addition, as our patents expire, or are allowed to lapse, in the coming years, we may face increased competition with consequent erosion of profit margins if we are unable to continue to develop innovations for which we are able to secure new patents or we are unable to effectively protect our know how and innovations as trade secrets. 46 Table of Contents It is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our confidential proprietary manufacturing know how, technological innovations, proprietary business information and other trade secrets, but our confidentiality agreements could be breached and may not prevent our manufacturing know how and other trade secrets from being misappropriated by others. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing know how. Violations by others of our confidentiality agreements and the loss of employees who have specialized knowledge and expertise could harm our competitive position and cause our sales and operating results to decline as a result of increased competition. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or by legal means of access. We have registered and applied for registration of certain service marks and trademarks, and will continue to evaluate the registration and maintenance of additional service marks and trademarks. We have registered the trademark TRINSEO™ in countries throughout the world and have adopted this trademark as a “house” brand for all of our products. As a general matter with respect to our trademarks, the applicable governmental authorities may not approve our pending applications. A failure to obtain, or maintain, trademark registrations in the United States and in other countries could limit our ability to protect and enforce our trademarks and impede our marketing efforts in those jurisdictions. Moreover, third parties may seek to oppose our applications or otherwise challenge the resulting registrations. In the event that any of our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products or lose product differentiations that our use of the trademarks has created in the marketplace, which could result in loss of brand recognition or customer loyalty or goodwill and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands and the development of new products. We may be unable to determine when third parties are using our intellectual property rights without our authorization, particularly our manufacturing processes. In addition, we cannot be certain that any intellectual property rights that we have licensed to third parties are being used only as authorized by the applicable license agreement. The undetected, unremedied, or unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights or the legitimate development or acquisition of intellectual property that is similar to or competes with ours by third parties could reduce or eliminate the competitive advantage we have as a result of our intellectual property, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary information, including our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets, trade names and proprietary manufacturing know how, methods and compounds, through obtaining patent protection, securing trademark registrations and securing our trade secrets through the use of confidentiality agreements of appropriate scope and other means, our competitive advantages over other producers could be materially adversely affected. If we determine to take legal action to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights, any suits or proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and our management’s attention. We may not prevail in any such suits or proceedings. A failure to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. We continually seek to improve our business processes and develop new products and applications. Many of our competitors have a substantial amount of intellectual property that we must continually strive to avoid infringing. Although it is our policy and intention not to infringe valid patents of which we are aware, we cannot provide assurances that our processes and products and other activities do not and will not infringe issued patents (whether present or future) or other intellectual property rights belonging to others, either in the United States. There nonetheless could be third-party patents that cover our products, processes or technologies, and it is possible that we could be liable for infringement of such patents and could be required to take remedial or curative actions to continue our manufacturing and sales activities with respect to one or more products that are found to be infringing. We may also be subject to indemnity claims by our business partners arising out of claims of their alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties in connection with their use of our products. Intellectual property litigation often is expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and our involvement in such litigation could divert our management’s attention from operating our business. If we were to discover that any of our processes, technologies or products infringe on the valid intellectual property rights of others, we might determine to obtain licenses from the owners of these rights or to modify our processes or technologies or re-engineer our products in order to avoid infringement. We may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able 47 Table of Contents to modify our processes or technologies or re-engineer our products in a manner that is successful in avoiding infringement. Moreover, if we are sued for infringement and lose, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or technology. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Data security breaches could compromise sensitive information related to our business, which could adversely affect our business and our reputation. Cyberattacks or data security breaches could compromise confidential, business critical information or cause a disruption in our operations. We have attractive information assets, including intellectual property, trade secrets and other sensitive, business critical information. We face an ever growing risk of attack from outside our organization (including attack by organized crime, so-called “hacktivists,” and state-sponsored actors) using sophisticated technical and non-technical methodologies (including social engineering and “spear phishing” attacks). We also face risks from internal threats to information security, such as from negligent or dishonest employees or consultants. A successful cyberattack or other breach of security could result in the loss of critical business information and/or could negatively impact operations, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. Furthermore, in addition to using our own systems and infrastructure, we use information systems and infrastructure operated by third-party service providers, including Dow. If our third-party service providers experience an information security breach, depending on the nature of the breach, it could compromise confidential, business critical information or cause a disruption in our operations. The labor and employment laws in many jurisdictions in which we operate are more restrictive than in the United States. Additionally, we have unionized employees in the United States who may stage work stoppages. Our relationship with our employees could deteriorate, which could have an adverse effect on our operations. As a manufacturing company, we rely on our employees and good relations with our employees to produce our products and maintain our production processes and productivity. Approximately 85% of our employees are employed outside of the United States. In certain of those countries, such as the member states of the European Union, labor and employment laws are more restrictive than in the United States. In many jurisdictions, the laws grant significant job protection to employees, which subject us to employment arrangements that are very similar to collective bargaining agreements. In addition, as of December 31, 2015, approximately 16% of our employees in United States are members of a union and subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We are required to consult with and seek the consent or advice of the unions or works’ councils that represent our employees for certain of our activities. This requirement could have a significant impact on our flexibility in managing costs and responding to market changes. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate labor agreements with our unionized employees in the future on satisfactory terms. If those employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, or if any of our other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a global business, we are exposed to local business risks in different countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have significant operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, R&D facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. As of December 31, 2015, we operated, or others operated on our behalf, 34 manufacturing plants (which include a total of 80 production units) at 26 sites around the world, including in Colombia, Germany, The Netherlands, Belgium, Italy, Finland, Sweden, China, South Korea, Indonesia, Japan and Taiwan, in 48 Table of Contents addition to our operations in the United States. Our offshore operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including, but not necessarily limited to: · new and different legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions; · uncertainties regarding interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations; · variation in political and economic policy of the local governments and social conditions; · export duties or import quotas; · domestic and foreign customs and tariffs or other trade barriers; · potential staffing difficulties and labor disputes; · managing and obtaining support and distribution for local operations; · increased costs of transportation or shipping; · credit risk and financial conditions of local customers and distributors; · potential difficulties in protecting intellectual property; · risk of nationalization of private enterprises by foreign governments; · potential imposition of restrictions on investments; · potentially adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; · legal restrictions on doing business in or with certain nations, certain parties and/or certain products; · foreign currency exchange restrictions and fluctuations; and · local economic, political and social conditions, including the possibility of hyperinflationary conditions and political instability. We may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies to address the foregoing factors in a timely and effective manner at each location where we do business. Consequently, the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or upon our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations in developing markets could expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks that are greater than those we may face in established markets. Further, our international operations require us to comply with a number of United States and international regulations. For example, we must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) which prohibits companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official, or agent thereof, for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. We operate in some nations that have experienced significant levels of governmental corruption. Any failure by us to ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial civil and criminal penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions or reputational damage, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly results of operations are subject to fluctuations due to the seasonality of our business. Seasonal changes and weather conditions typically affect the construction and building materials end markets. In particular, sales volumes for construction and building materials generally rise in the warmer months and generally decline during the colder months of fall and winter. Abnormally cold or wet seasons may cause reduced purchases from our construction and building materials customers and, therefore, adversely affect our financial results. However, because seasonal weather patterns are difficult to predict, we cannot accurately estimate fluctuations in our quarterly construction and building materials sales in any given year. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for any other quarter or for the full fiscal year. 49 Table of Contents We have unfunded and underfunded pension plan liabilities. We will require current and future operating cash flow to fund these shortfalls. We have no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy these obligations. We maintain defined benefit pension plans covering employees who meet age and service requirements. The majority of these plans are located outside the United States. We have minimum funding requirements for these plans, and may elect to make contributions that do not exceed these minimum requirements. Our net pension liability and cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the longevity and actuarial profile of our workforce, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the actual and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change in the expected rate of return on plan assets and could result in a shortfall. In addition, any changes in the discount rate could result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following years. Similarly, changes in the expected return on plan assets can result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost in the following years. If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We are required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually or earlier if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. As of December 31, 2015, we had recorded a total of $31.1 million of goodwill. An adverse change in economic or market conditions, changes in technology, changes in competitive conditions and customer preferences, particularly if such changes have the effect of changing one of our critical assumptions or estimates made in connection with the impairment testing of goodwill could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an impairment charge to our goodwill. Any such material charges may negatively impact our operating results. Our ability to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms may be limited. Although we believe our cash and cash equivalents, together with cash we expect to generate from operations and availability under our Senior Credit Facility, which includes a new revolving facility, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, we may need to seek additional financing to compete effectively. If we are unable to obtain capital on commercially reasonable terms, it could: · reduce funds available to us for purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, R&D, strategic acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; · restrict our ability to introduce new products or exploit business opportunities; · increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and competitive pressures in the markets in which we operate; and · place us at a competitive disadvantage. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange listing rules and, as a result, we qualify for, and will continue to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Under the New York Stock Exchange rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements. As of December 31, 2015, the Company did not have a majority of its board of director consist of independent directors, and our compensation and nominating/corporate governance committees did not consist entirely of independent directors. We intend to continue to utilize some of these exemptions, until we are no longer a controlled 50 Table of Contents company. Accordingly, you do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. As a controlled company our Parent has significant influence over us, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. As long as our Parent continues to beneficially own more than 50% of the voting power of our ordinary shares, it will be able to direct the election of all of the members of our board of directors and could exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional ordinary shares or other equity securities, the repurchase or redemption of ordinary shares and the payment of dividends. Similarly, our Parent has the power to determine matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders without the consent of our other shareholders, can prevent a change in our control, and can take other actions that might be favorable to it. Even if its ownership falls below 50%, our Parent and its affiliates may continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Additionally, certain affiliates of our Parent are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. They may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. We are a Luxembourg company and, as a result, shareholders may have difficulty effecting service of process or litigation against us or our officers and directors and will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of a company incorporated in Delaware. We are organized under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Many of our assets are located outside the United States and some of our directors and officers named in this prospectus reside outside the United States and most of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, investors may find it more difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce outside the United States judgments obtained against us or these persons in U.S. courts, including judgments in actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Likewise, it may also be difficult for an investor to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained against us or these persons in courts located in jurisdictions outside the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. It may also be difficult for an investor to bring an original action in a Luxembourg court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or these persons. Luxembourg law does not recognize a shareholder’s right to bring a derivative action on behalf of a company. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of our directors and officers under Luxembourg law are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in Delaware, or any other state of the United States. Luxembourg law and regulations in respect of corporate governance matters might not be as protective of minority shareholders as the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or other state corporation laws. Therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our directors and officers or our principal shareholders than they would as shareholders of a Delaware corporation or a corporation incorporated in another state of the United States. Provisions in our organizational documents and Luxembourg law may deter takeover efforts or other actions, including share repurchases that could be beneficial to shareholder value. In addition to our Parent’s beneficial ownership of a controlling percentage of our ordinary shares, our articles of association and Luxembourg law contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions include a staggered board of directors, the ability of the board of directors to approve a merger or other acquisition and to issue additional ordinary shares without shareholder approval that could be used to dilute a potential hostile acquirer. As a result, you may lose your ability to sell your ordinary shares for a price in excess of the prevailing market price due to these protective measures, and efforts by shareholders to change the direction or management of the company may be unsuccessful. 51 Table of Contents Pursuant to Luxembourg corporate law, existing shareholders are generally entitled to preemptive subscription rights in the event of capital increases and issues of shares against cash contributions. However, our board of directors is authorized to waive, limit or suppress such pre-emptive subscription rights until May 13, 2019. Furthermore, our shareholders may renew, expand or amend this authorization, which could result in the extension of the waiver beyond the initial five year period, at a future general meeting of shareholders. In addition, our board of directors is authorized to acquire and sell issued ordinary shares subject to certain price and ownership restrictions until May 14, 2019. At a future general meeting of our shareholders, our shareholders may renew, expand or amend this authorization. These limitations on share repurchases may have the effect of limiting the terms and duration of any potential share repurchase program or other repurchase transaction. Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted by future equity issuances, which could reduce your influence over matters on which shareholders vote. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our shareholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued ordinary shares, including shares issuable upon the exercise of options. Issuances of ordinary shares would reduce your influence over matters on which our shareholders vote and, in the case of issuances of preferred stock, would likely result in your interest in us being subject to the prior rights of holders of that preferred stock. Because Luxembourg law places certain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and make other cash distributions to shareholders, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your ordinary shares for a price greater than that which you paid for it. Under Luxembourg law, cash dividends must be paid from statutory accounting profits and approved by shareholders. Trinseo S.A. does not have statutory accounting profits as a holding company without operations. Additionally, cash distributions may be made to shareholders through the repayment of shareholder equity. The board of directors’ authority to make such repayments of equity is subject to shareholder approval. Equity repayments are utilizing Trinseo S.A.’s distributable reserves, which is generally its statutory share premium less minimum legal reserves. Even if shareholder approvals are received and statutory requirements are satisfied to pay dividends or make other cash distributions, we may retain future earnings, if any, for future operations, expansion and debt repayment. Any decision to declare and pay dividends or make other distributions to shareholders, including the repayment of shareholder equity, in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Even if the board chooses to pay a dividend or make a cash distribution to shareholders, it does not guarantee it will continue to do so in the future. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our ordinary shares unless you sell our ordinary shares for a price greater than that which you paid for them. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 