ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider, but the risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial, or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, and operating results would likely suffer. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business We have grown significantly in recent years and our delinquency and charge-off rates and overall results of operations may be adversely affected if we do not manage our growth effectively. We have experienced substantial growth in recent years, opening or acquiring 17 branches in 2010, 36 in 2011, and a net 51 in 2012, and we intend to continue our growth strategy in the future. As we increase the number of branches we operate, we will be required to find new, or relocate existing, employees to operate our branches and allocate resources to train and supervise those employees. The success of a branch depends significantly on the manager overseeing its operations and on our ability to enforce our underwriting standards and implement controls over branch operations. Recruiting suitable managers for new branches can be challenging, particularly in remote areas and areas where we face significant competition. Furthermore, the annual turnover in 2012 among our branch managers was approximately 24%, and turnover rates of managers in our new branches may be similar or higher. Increasing the number of branches that we operate may divide the attention of our senior management or strain our ability to adapt our infrastructure and systems to accommodate our growth. If we are unable to promote, relocate, or recruit suitable managers and oversee their activities effectively, our delinquency and charge-off rates may increase and our overall results of operations may be adversely impacted. We face significant risks in implementing our growth strategy, some of which are outside our control. We intend to continue our growth strategy, which is based on opening and acquiring branches in existing and new markets and introducing new products and channels. Our ability to execute this growth strategy is subject to significant risks, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the prevailing laws and regulatory environment of each state in which we operate or seek to operate and, to the extent applicable, federal laws and regulations, which are subject to change at any time; • the degree of competition in new markets and its effect on our ability to attract new customers; • our ability to identify attractive locations for new branches; • our ability to recruit qualified personnel, in particular in remote areas and areas where we face a great deal of competition; and • our ability to obtain adequate financing for our expansion plans. For example, North Carolina requires a “needs and convenience” assessment of a new lending license and location prior to the granting of the license, which adds time and expense to opening de novo locations. In addition, certain states into which we may expand limit the number of lending licenses granted. There can be no assurance that if we apply for a license for a new branch, whether in one of the states where we currently operate or in a state into which we would like to expand, we would be granted a license to operate. We also cannot be certain that any such license, even if granted, would be obtained in a timely manner or without burdensome conditions or limitations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain and maintain any regulatory approvals, government permits, or licenses that may be required. 21 Table of Contents We face strong direct and indirect competition. The consumer finance industry is highly competitive, and the barriers to entry for new competitors are relatively low in the markets in which we operate. We compete for customers, locations, and other important aspects of our business with many other local, regional, national, and international financial institutions, many of whom have greater financial resources than we do. Our installment loan operations compete with other installment lenders as well as with alternative financial services providers (such as payday and title lenders, check advance companies, and pawnshops), online or peer-to-peer lenders, issuers of non-prime credit cards, and other competitors. We believe that future regulatory developments in the consumer finance industry may cause lenders that currently focus on alternative financial services to begin to offer installment loans. In addition, if companies in the installment loan business attempt to provide more attractive loan terms than is standard across the industry, we may lose customers to those competitors. In installment loans, we compete primarily on the basis of price, breadth of loan product offerings, flexibility of loan terms offered, and the quality of customer service provided. Our automobile purchase loan operations compete with numerous financial services providers, including non-prime auto lenders, dealers that provide financing, captive finance companies owned by automobile manufacturers, banks, and to a limited extent, credit unions. Our furniture and appliance purchase loan operations compete with store and third-party credit cards, prime lending sources, rent-to-own finance providers, and other competitors. Although the furniture and appliance purchase loan market includes few competitors serving non-prime borrowers, there are numerous competitors offering non-prime automobile purchase loans. For automobile purchase loans and furniture and appliance purchase loans, we compete primarily on the basis of interest rates charged, the quality of credit accepted, the flexibility of loan terms offered, the speed of approval, and the quality of customer service provided. If we fail to compete successfully, we could face lower sales and may decide or be compelled to materially alter our lending terms to our customers, which could result in decreased profitability. A substantial majority of our revenue is generated by our branches in South Carolina, Texas, and North Carolina. Our branches in South Carolina accounted for 45% of our revenue in 2012. In addition, our branches in Texas and North Carolina accounted for 24% and 16%, respectively, of our revenue in 2012. Furthermore, all of our operations are in five Southeastern and three Southwestern states. As a result, we are highly susceptible to adverse economic conditions in those areas. For example, the unemployment rate in South Carolina, which was 8.4% in December 2012, is among the highest in the country. High unemployment rates may reduce the number of qualified borrowers to whom we will extend loans, which would result in reduced loan originations. Adverse economic conditions may increase delinquencies and charge-offs and decrease our overall loan portfolio quality. If any of the adverse regulatory or legislative events described in this “Risk Factors” section were to occur in South Carolina, Texas, or North Carolina, it could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, if interest rates in South Carolina, which are currently not capped, were to be capped, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in making, continuing, and growing relationships with automobile dealers and furniture and appliance retailers. Our automobile purchase loans and furniture and appliance purchase loans are reliant on our relationships with automobile dealers and furniture and appliance retailers. In particular, our automobile purchase loan operations depend in large part upon our ability to establish and maintain relationships with reputable dealers who direct customers to our branches or originate loans at the point of sale, which we subsequently purchase. 22 Table of Contents Although we have relationships with certain automobile dealers, none of our relationships are exclusive, some of them are newly established, and they may be terminated at any time. As a result of the recent economic downturn and contraction of credit to both dealers and their customers, there has been an increase in dealership closures and our existing dealer base has experienced decreased sales and loan volume in the past and may experience decreased sales and loan volume in the future, which may have an adverse effect on our business, our results of operations, and financial condition. Our furniture and appliance purchase loan business model is based on our ability to enter into agreements with individual furniture and appliance retailers to provide financing to customers in their stores. Although our relationships with independent licensees of a major U.S. furniture retailer are currently a significant source of our furniture and appliance purchase loans, we do not have a relationship with the retailer itself or its manufacturing affiliate and instead depend on non-exclusive relationships with individual licensees of the retailer, each of which may be terminated at any time. If a competitor were to offer better service or more attractive loan products to our furniture and appliance retailer partners, it is possible that our retail partners would terminate their relationships with us. If we are unable to continue to grow our existing relationships and develop new relationships, our results of operations, financial condition, and ability to continue to expand could be adversely affected. Regular turnover among our managers and other employees at our branches makes it more difficult for us to operate our branches and increases our costs of operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our workforce is comprised primarily of employees who work on an hourly basis. In certain areas where we operate, there is significant competition for employees. In the past, we have lost employees and candidates to competitors who have been willing to pay higher compensation than we pay. Our ability to continue to expand our operations depends on our ability to attract, train, and retain a large and growing number of qualified employees. The turnover among all of our branch employees was approximately 43% in 2010, 37% in 2011, and 38% in 2012. This turnover increases our cost of operations and makes it more difficult to operate our branches. Our customer service representative and assistant manager roles have historically experienced high turnover. We may not be able to retain and cultivate personnel at these ranks for future promotion to branch manager. If our employee turnover rates increase above historical levels or if unanticipated problems arise from our high employee turnover and we are unable to readily replace such employees, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and ability to continue to expand could be adversely affected. We are subject to government regulations concerning our hourly and our other employees, including minimum wage, overtime, and health care laws. We are subject to applicable rules and regulations relating to our relationship with our employees, including minimum wage and break requirements, health benefits, unemployment and sales taxes, overtime, and working conditions and immigration status. Legislated increases in the federal minimum wage and increases in additional labor cost components, such as employee benefit costs, workers’ compensation insurance rates, compliance costs and fines, as well as the cost of litigation in connection with these regulations, would increase our labor costs. Unionizing and collective bargaining efforts have received increased attention nationwide in recent periods. Should our employees become represented by unions, we would be obligated to bargain with those unions with respect to wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment, which is likely to increase our labor costs. Moreover, as part of the process of union organizing and collective bargaining, strikes, and other work stoppages may occur, which would cause disruption to our business. Similarly, many employers nationally in similar retail environments have been subject to actions brought by governmental agencies and private individuals under wage-hour laws on a variety of claims, such as improper classification of workers as exempt from overtime pay requirements and failure to pay overtime wages properly, with such actions sometimes brought as class actions, and these actions can result in material liabilities and expenses. Should we be subject to employment litigation, such as actions involving wage-hour, overtime, break, and working time, it may distract our management from business matters and result in increased labor costs. In addition, we currently sponsor 23 Table of Contents employer-subsidized premiums for major medical programs for eligible salaried personnel and “mini-medical” (limited benefit) programs for eligible hourly employees who elect health care coverage through our insurance programs. As a result of regulatory changes, we may not be able to continue to offer health care coverage to our employees on affordable terms or at all. If we are unable to locate, attract, train, or retain qualified personnel, or if our costs of labor increase significantly, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our live check direct mail strategy exposes us to certain risks. A significant portion of our growth in our small installment loans has been achieved through our direct mail campaigns, which involve mailing to pre-screened recipients “live checks,” which customers can sign and cash or deposit thereby agreeing to the terms of the loan, which are disclosed on the front and back of the check. We use live checks to seed new branch openings and attract new customers and those with higher credit in our geographic footprint. Loans initiated through live checks represented 32.6% of the value of our originated loans. We expect that live checks will represent a greater percentage of our small installment loans in the future. There are several risks associated with the use of live checks including the following: • it is more difficult to maintain sound underwriting standards with live check customers, and these customers have historically presented a higher risk of default than customers that originate loans in our branches, as we do not meet a live check customer prior to soliciting them and extending a loan to them, and we may not be able to verify certain elements of their financial condition, including their current employment status or life circumstances; • we rely on a software-based model and credit information from a third-party credit bureau that is more limited than a full credit report to pre-screen potential live check recipients, which may not be as effective or may be inaccurate or outdated; • we face limitations on the number of potential borrowers who meet our lending criteria within proximity to our branches; • we may not be able to continue to access the demographic and credit file information that we use to generate our mailing lists due to expanded regulatory or privacy restrictions; • live checks pose a greater risk of fraud as the live checks may be fraudulently replicated; • we depend on one bank to issue and clear our live checks and any failure by that bank to properly process the live checks could limit the ability of a recipient to cash the check and enter into a loan with us; • we sell clearly disclosed optional credit insurance products as part of our live check mailing campaigns; however, customers may subsequently claim that they did not receive sufficient explanation or notice of the insurance products that they purchased; • customers may opt out of direct mail solicitations and solicitations based on their credit file or may otherwise prohibit us from soliciting them; and • postal rates and piece printing rates may continue to rise. Our expected increase in the use of live checks will further increase our exposure to, and the magnitude of, these risks. A reduction in demand for our products and failure by us to adapt to such reduction could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The demand for the products we offer may be reduced due to a variety of factors, such as demographic patterns, changes in customer preferences or financial conditions, regulatory restrictions that decrease customer access to particular products, or the availability of competing products. For example, we are highly dependent 24 Table of Contents upon selecting and maintaining attractive branch locations. These locations are subject to local market conditions, including the employment available in the area, housing costs, traffic patterns, crime, and other demographic influences, any of which may quickly change. Should we fail to adapt to significant changes in our customers’ demand for, or access to, our products, our revenues could decrease significantly and our operations could be harmed. Even if we do make changes to existing products or introduce new products to fulfill customer demand, customers may resist or may reject such products. Moreover, the effect of any product change on the results of our business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time, and by that time it may be too late to make further modifications to such product without causing further harm to our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may attempt to pursue acquisitions or strategic alliances, which may be unsuccessful. We may attempt to achieve our business objectives through acquisitions and strategic alliances. We compete with other companies for these opportunities, including companies with greater financial resources, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to effect acquisitions or strategic alliances on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Furthermore, the acquisitions that we have pursued previously have been significantly smaller than us. We do not have extensive experience with integrating larger acquisitions, such as our recent acquisition of branches in Alabama. In pursuing these transactions, we may experience, among other things: • overvaluing potential targets due to limitations on our due diligence efforts; • difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, branches, or products into our existing business, including integration of account data into our information systems; • inability to realize the benefits we anticipate in a timely fashion, or at all; • attrition of key personnel from acquired businesses; • unexpected losses due to the acquisition of existing loan portfolios with loans originated using less stringent underwriting criteria; • significant costs, charges, or writedowns; or • unforeseen operating difficulties that require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development and expansion of our existing operations. We are exposed to credit risk in our lending activities. Our ability to collect on loans depends on the willingness and repayment ability of our borrowers. Any material adverse change in the ability or willingness of a significant portion of our borrowers to meet their obligations to us, whether due to changes in economic conditions, the cost of consumer goods, interest rates, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or other causes over which we have no control, would have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. Further, a substantial majority of our borrowers are non-prime borrowers, who are more likely to be affected, and more severely affected, by adverse macroeconomic conditions such as those that have persisted over the last few years. We generally consider customers with a Beacon score, a measure of credit provided by Equifax, below 645 to be non-prime borrowers, although we also consider factors other than Beacon scores in evaluating a potential customer’s credit, such as length of employment and duration of current residence. There is no industry standard definition of non-prime and, consequently, other lenders may use different criteria to identify non-prime customers. We cannot be certain that our credit administration personnel, policies, and procedures will adequately adapt to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting customers and the quality of the loan portfolio. 25 Table of Contents We may be limited in our ability to collect on our loan portfolio and the security interests securing a significant portion of our loan portfolio are not perfected, which may increase our credit losses. Legal and practical limitations may limit our ability to collect on our loan portfolio, resulting in increased credit losses, decreased revenues, and decreased earnings. State and federal laws and regulations restrict our collection efforts. Most of our loan portfolio is secured, but a significant portion of such security interests have not been and will not be perfected. The amounts that we are able to recover from the repossession and sale of collateral typically does not cover the outstanding loan balance and costs of recovery. In cases where we repossess a vehicle securing a loan, we sell our repossessed automobile inventory through public sales conducted by independent automobile auction organizations after the required post-repossession waiting period. There is approximately a 30-day period between the time we repossess a vehicle or other property and the time it is sold at auction. In certain instances, we may sell repossessed collateral other than vehicles through our branches after the required post-repossession waiting period and appropriate receipt of valid bids. The proceeds we receive from such sales depend upon various factors, including the supply of, and demand for, used vehicles and other property at the time of sale. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, such as have existed in the United States for much of the past few years, there may be less demand for used vehicles and other property. Further, a significant portion of our loan portfolio is not secured by perfected security interests, including small installment loans and furniture and appliance purchase loans. The lack of perfected security interests is one of several factors that may make it more difficult for us to collect on our loan portfolio. During 2012, net charge-offs as a percentage of average finance receivables on our small installment loans, which are typically secured by unperfected interests in personal property, were 9.2%, while net charge-offs as a percentage of average finance receivables for our large installment loans and automobile purchase loans, which are typically secured by perfected interests in an automobile or other vehicle, for the same periods were 5.0%. Additionally, for those of our loans which are unsecured, borrowers may choose to repay obligations under other indebtedness before repaying loans to us because such borrowers have no collateral at risk. Lastly, given the relatively small size of our loans, the costs of collecting loans may be high relative to the amount of the loan. As a result, many collection practices that are legally available, such as litigation, may be financially impracticable. These factors may increase our credit losses, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there is an inherent risk that a portion of the retail installment contracts that we hold will be in default or be subject to certain claims or defenses that the borrower may assert against the originator of the contract, or us as the holder of the contract. We face the risk that if high unemployment or adverse economic developments occur or continue in one or more of our markets, a large number of retail installment contracts will become defaulted. In addition, most of the borrowers under these contracts have some negative credit history. There can be no assurance that our allowance for credit losses will prove sufficient to cover actual losses in the future on these contracts. Our policies and procedures for underwriting, processing, and servicing loans are subject to potential failure or circumvention, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Most of our underwriting activities and our credit extension decisions are made at our local branches. We train our employees individually on-site in the branch to make loans that conform to our underwriting standards. Such training includes critical aspects of state and federal regulatory compliance, cash handling, account management, and customer relations. Although we have standardized employee manuals, we primarily rely on our district supervisors, with oversight by our state vice presidents, branch auditors, and headquarters personnel, to train and supervise our branch employees, rather than centralized or standardized training programs. Therefore, the quality of training and supervision may vary from district to district and branch to branch depending upon the amount of time apportioned to training and supervision and individual interpretations of our operations policies and procedures. We cannot be certain that every loan is made in accordance with our underwriting standards and rules. We have in the past experienced some instances of loans extended that varied from our underwriting standards. Variances in underwriting standards and lack of supervision could expose us to greater delinquencies and charge-offs than we have historically experienced. 26 Table of Contents In addition, underwriting decisions are based on information provided by customers and counterparties, the inaccuracy or incompleteness of which may adversely affect our results of operations. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial information. We also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Our earnings and our financial condition could be negatively impacted to the extent the information furnished to us by and on behalf of customers and counterparties is not correct or complete. If our estimates of credit losses are not adequate to absorb actual losses, our provision for credit losses would increase, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We maintain an allowance for credit losses for all loans we make. To estimate the appropriate level of credit loss reserves, we consider known and relevant internal and external factors that affect loan collectability, including the total amount of loans outstanding, historical loan charge-offs, our current collection patterns, and economic trends. Our methodology for establishing our reserves for doubtful accounts is based in large part on our historic loss experience. If customer behavior changes as a result of economic conditions and if we are unable to predict how the unemployment rate, housing foreclosures, and general economic uncertainty may affect our credit loss reserves, our provision may be inadequate. During fiscal 2012, our provision for credit losses was $27.8 million, and we had net charge-offs of $23.4 million related to losses on our loans. As of December 31, 2012, our finance receivables were $437.6 million. Maintaining the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses may require that we make significant and unanticipated increases in our provisions for credit losses, which would materially affect our results of operations. Our credit loss reserves, however, are estimates, and if actual credit losses are materially greater than our credit loss reserves, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Neither state regulators nor federal regulators regulate our allowance for credit losses. Interest rates on automobile purchase and furniture and appliance purchase loans are determined at competitive market interest rates and we may fail to adequately set interest rates, which may adversely affect our business. In recent years, we have expanded our automobile purchase loan business and our furniture and appliance purchase loan business and we plan to continue to expand those businesses in the future. Unlike installment loans, which in certain states are typically made at or near the maximum interest rates permitted by law, automobile purchase loans and furniture and appliance purchase loans are often made at competitive market interest rates, which are governed by laws for installment sales contracts. We have limited experience in determining interest rates in these markets. If we fail to set interest rates at a level that adequately reflects the credit risks of our customers, or if we set interest rates at a level too low to sustain our profitability, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Failure of third-party service providers upon which we rely could adversely affect our business. We rely on certain third-party service providers. In particular, we currently rely on two key vendors to print and mail our live checks for our direct mail marketing campaigns. Our reliance on third parties such as these can expose us to risks. For example, an error by our previous live check vendor during 2010 resulted in checks being misdirected, requiring us in some cases to notify state regulators and to refund certain interest and fee amounts, and exposing us to increased credit risk. If any of our third-party service providers, including our live check vendors, are unable to provide their services timely and effectively, or at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows. 27 Table of Contents We depend to a substantial extent on borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility to fund our liquidity needs. We have a senior revolving credit facility committed through July 2015 that allows us to borrow up to $325.0 million, assuming we are in compliance with a number of covenants and conditions. As of December 31, 2012, the amount outstanding under our senior revolving credit facility was $292.4 million, and we had $32.6 million of remaining availability thereunder out of a total availability of $325.0 million based on our borrowing base as of December 31, 2012. During fiscal 2012, the maximum amount of borrowings outstanding under the facility at one time was $292.4 million. We use our senior revolving credit facility as a source of liquidity, including for working capital and to fund the loans we make to our customers. If our existing sources of liquidity become insufficient to satisfy our financial needs or our access to these sources becomes unexpectedly restricted, we may need to try to raise additional debt or equity in the future. If such an event were to occur, we can give no assurance that such alternate sources of liquidity would be available to us on favorable terms or at all. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will be able to replace the amended and restated senior revolving credit facility when it matures on favorable terms or at all. If any of these events occur, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are not insulated from the pressures and potentially negative consequences of the recent financial crisis and similar risks beyond our control that have and may continue to affect the capital and credit markets, the broader economy, the financial services industry, or the segment of that industry in which we operate. Continued or worsening general business and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows, and may increase loan defaults and affect the value and liquidity of your investment. Over the past few years, the global economy has experienced a significant recession, as well as a severe, ongoing disruption in the credit markets and a material and adverse effect on the jobs market and individual borrowers. While the United States economy may technically have come out of the recession, the recovery is fragile and may not be sustainable for any specific period of time, and could slip into an even more significant recession. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of our borrowers to make payments on outstanding loans, is highly dependent upon the business and economic environments in the markets where we operate and in the United States as a whole. During an economic downturn or recession, credit losses in the financial services industry generally increase and demand for credit products often decreases. Declining asset values, defaults on consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to decrease liquidity. As a result of these factors, some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses, and the strength and liquidity of many financial institutions worldwide has weakened. Additionally, our loan servicing costs and collection costs may increase as we may have to expend greater time and resources on these activities. Our underwriting criteria, policies and procedures, and product offerings may not sufficiently protect our growth and profitability during a sustained period of economic downturn or recession. Any continued or further economic downturn will adversely affect the financial resources of our customers and may result in the inability of our customers to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance, the outstanding debt when due. Conditions in the marketplace remain historically weak, and there can be no assurance that they will improve in the near term. Should such conditions worsen or continue to remain weak, they may adversely affect the credit quality of our loans. In the event of increased default by borrowers under the loans, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents We are subject to interest rate risk resulting from general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence the amount of interest we pay on our senior revolving credit facility or any other floating interest rate obligations we may incur, which would increase our operating costs and decrease our operating margins. Interest payable on our senior revolving credit facility is variable, based on LIBOR with a LIBOR floor of 1.00% and could increase in the future. Although we have purchased interest rate caps on a $150.0 million notional amount to hedge such increases, these caps expire in 2014 and we may not be able to replace these instruments when they mature on favorable terms or at all. Furthermore, market conditions or regulatory restrictions on interest rates we charge may prevent us from passing any increases in interest rates along to our customers. Our revolving credit agreement contains restrictions and limitations that could affect our ability to operate our business. The credit agreement governing our senior revolving credit facility contains a number of covenants that could adversely affect our business and the flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or opportunities. Among other things, these covenants limit our ability to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • purchase large loan portfolios in bulk; • pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock or make certain other restricted payments; • sell assets, including our loan portfolio or the capital stock of our subsidiaries; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • create or incur liens; and • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the credit agreement imposes certain obligations on us relating to our underwriting standards, recordkeeping and servicing of our loans, and our loss reserves and charge-off policies. It also requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, including an interest coverage ratio and a borrowing base ratio (calculated as the ratio of our unsubordinated debt to the sum of our adjusted tangible net worth and our subordinated debt). If we were to breach any covenants or obligations under the credit agreement and such breaches were to result in an event of default, our lenders could cause all amounts outstanding to become due and payable, subject to applicable grace periods. This could trigger cross-defaults under any future debt instruments and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to continue operating our business as a going concern. As of December 31, 2012, we were in material compliance with the covenants under our senior revolving credit facility. If we lose the services of any of our key management personnel, our business could suffer. Our future success significantly depends on the continued service and performance of our key management personnel. Competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the service of members of our senior management or key team members, including our state vice presidents, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed, could materially harm our business. Our success depends, in part, on the continued service of our President and Chief Operating Officer, C. Glynn Quattlebaum, who is 66 years old and is nearing the age of retirement. 29 Table of Contents We also depend on our district supervisors to supervise, train, and motivate our branch employees. These supervisors have significant experience with the Company and would be difficult to replace. If we lose a district supervisor to a competitor, we could be at risk of losing other employees and customers despite the confidentiality agreements and non-solicitation agreements we have entered into with each employee. We rely on information technology products developed, owned, and supported by third parties, including our competitors. We use a software package developed and owned by ParaData Financial Systems, or ParaData, a wholly owned subsidiary of World Acceptance Corporation, one of our primary competitors, to record, document, and manage our loans. Over the years we have tailored this software to meet our specific needs. We depend on the willingness and ability of ParaData to continue to provide customized solutions and support for our evolving products and business model. In the future, ParaData may not be able to modify the loan management software to meet our needs, or it could alter the program without notice to us or cease to adequately support it. ParaData could also decide in the future to refuse to provide support for its software to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If any of these events were to occur, we would be forced to migrate to an alternative software package, which could materially affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We rely on DealerTrack, Route One, Teledata Communications Inc., and other third-party software vendors to provide access to loan applications and/or screen applications. There can be no assurance that these third party providers will continue to provide us information in accordance with our lending guidelines or that they will continue to provide us lending leads at all. If this occurs, our credit losses, business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. Security breaches in our branches or failures in our information systems could adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Nearly all of our account payments occur at our branches, either in person or by mail, and frequently consist of cash payments, which we deposit at local banks throughout the day. This business practice exposes us daily to the potential for employee theft of funds or, alternatively, to theft and burglary due to the cash we maintain in the branch. Despite controls and procedures to prevent such losses, we have in the past sustained losses due to employee fraud and theft. In addition, our employees “field call” delinquent accounts by visiting the home or workplace of a delinquent borrower. Such visits may subject our employees to a variety of dangers, including violence, vehicle accidents, and other perils. A breach in the security of our branches or in the safety of our employees could result in employee injury and adverse publicity and could result in a loss of customer business or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Each branch is part of an information network that is designed to permit us to maintain adequate cash inventory, reconcile cash balances on a daily basis, and report revenues and expenses to our headquarters. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security of these systems, including any failure of our back-up systems, hardware failures, or an inability to access data maintained offsite, could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, loan and other systems and could result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we may not be able to detect immediately any such breach, which may increase the losses that we would suffer. In addition, our existing insurance policies would not reimburse us for all of the damages that we might incur as a result of a breach. 30 Table of Contents Security breaches, cyber-attacks, or fraudulent activity could result in damage to our operations or lead to reputational damage. A security breach or cyber-attack of our computer systems could interrupt or damage our operations or harm our reputation. Despite the implementation of security measures, our systems may still be vulnerable to data theft, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties, or similar disruptive problems. If we were to experience a security breach or cyber-attack, we could be required to incur substantial costs and liabilities, including, among other things, the following: • expenses to rectify the consequences of the security breach or cyber-attack; • liability for stolen assets or information; • costs of repairing damage to our systems; • lost revenue and income resulting from any system downtime caused by such breach or attack; • increased costs of cyber security protection; • costs of incentives we may be required to offer to our customers or business partners to retain their business; and • damage to our reputation causing customers and investors to lose confidence in our company. In addition, any compromise of security or a cyber-attack could deter consumers from entering into transactions that require them to provide confidential information to us. Further, if confidential customer information or information belonging to our business partners is misappropriated from our computer systems, we could be sued by those who assert that we did not take adequate precautions to safeguard our systems and confidential data belonging to our customers or business partners, which could subject us to liability and result in significant legal fees and expenses of defending these claims. As a result, any compromise of security of our computer systems or cyber-attack could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. Our centralized headquarters’ functions are susceptible to disruption by catastrophic events, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our headquarters buildings are located in Greenville, South Carolina. Our information systems and administrative and management processes are primarily provided to our branches from this centralized location, and our separate data management facility is located in the same city, and these processes could be disrupted if a catastrophic event, such as a tornado, power outage, or act of terror, affected Greenville. Any such catastrophic event or other unexpected disruption of our headquarters or data management facility could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Risks Related to Regulation Our business products and activities are strictly and comprehensively regulated at the local, state, and federal level. Changes in current laws and regulations or in the interpretation of such laws and regulations, or our failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business is subject to numerous local, state and federal laws and regulations. These regulations impose significant costs and limitations on the way we conduct and expand our business, and these costs and limitations may increase in the future if such laws and regulations are changed. These laws and regulations govern or affect, among other things: • the interest rates that we may charge customers; • terms of loans, including fees, maximum amounts, and minimum durations; 31 Table of Contents • the number of simultaneous or consecutive loans and required waiting periods between loans; • disclosure practices, including posting of fees; • currency and suspicious activity reporting; • recording and reporting of certain financial transactions; • privacy of personal customer information; • the types of products and services that we may offer; • collection practices; • approval of licenses; and • locations of our branches. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation, implementation, and enforcement of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products that we may offer and increasing the ability of competitors to offer competing financial services and products. Compliance with these regulations is expensive and requires the time and attention of management. These costs divert capital and focus away from efforts intended to grow our business. Because these laws and regulations are complex and often subject to interpretation, or because of a result of unintended errors, we may, from time to time, inadvertently violate these laws, regulations, and policies, as each is interpreted by our regulators. If we do not successfully comply with laws, regulations, or policies, our compliance costs could increase, our operations could be limited, and we may suffer damage to our reputation. If more restrictive laws, rules, and regulations are enacted or more restrictive judicial and administrative interpretations of those laws are issued, compliance with the laws could become more expensive or difficult. Furthermore, changes in these laws and regulations could require changes in the way we conduct our business and we cannot predict the impact such changes would have on our profitability. Our primary regulators are the state regulators for the states in which we operate: South Carolina, Texas, North Carolina, Tennessee, Alabama, Oklahoma, and New Mexico. We operate each of our branches under licenses granted to us by these state regulators. State regulators may enter our branches and conduct audits of our records and practices at any time, with or without notice. If we fail to observe, or are not able to comply with, applicable legal requirements, we may be forced to discontinue certain product offerings, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, violation of these laws and regulations could result in fines and other civil and/or criminal penalties, including the suspension or revocation of our branch licenses, rendering us unable to operate in one or more locations. All the states in which we operate have laws governing the interest rate and fees that we can charge and required disclosure statements, among other restrictions. Violation of these laws could involve penalties requiring the forfeiture of principal and/or interest and fees that we have charged. Depending on the nature and scope of a violation, fines and other penalties for noncompliance of applicable requirements could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, and financial condition. Licenses to open new branches are granted in the discretion of state regulators. Accordingly, licenses may be denied unexpectedly or for reasons outside our control. This could hinder our ability to implement our business plan in a timely manner or at all. As we enter new markets and develop new products, we may become subject to additional state and federal regulations. For example, although we intend to expand into new states, we may encounter unexpected regulatory or other difficulties in these new states or markets, which may prevent us from growing in new states or markets. Similarly, while we intend to grow our furniture and appliance purchase and indirect automobile purchase loan operations, we may encounter unexpected regulatory or other difficulties. As a result, we may not be able to successfully execute our strategies to grow our revenue and earnings. 32 Table of Contents Changes in laws and regulations or interpretations of laws and regulations could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Although many of the laws and regulations applicable to our business have remained substantially unchanged for many years, the laws and regulations directly affecting our lending activities are under review and are subject to change, especially as a result of current economic conditions, changes in the make-up of the current executive and legislative branches, and the political focus on issues of consumer and borrower protection. In addition, consumer advocacy groups and various other media sources continue to advocate for governmental and regulatory action to prohibit or severely restrict various financial products, including the loan products we offer. Any changes in such laws and regulations, or the implementation, interpretation, or enforcement of such laws and regulations, could force us to modify, suspend or cease part or, in the worst case, all of our existing operations. It is also possible that the scope of federal regulations could change or expand in such a way as to preempt what has traditionally been state law regulation of our business activities. The enactment of one or more of such regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and prospects. States may also seek to impose new requirements or interpret or enforce existing requirements in new ways. Changes in current laws or regulations or the implementation of new laws or regulations in the future may restrict our ability to continue our current methods of operation or expand our operations. Additionally, these laws and regulations could subject us to liability for prior operating activities or lower or eliminate the profitability of operations going forward by, among other things, reducing the amount of interest and fees we charge in connection with our loans. If these or other factors lead us to close our branches in a state, in addition to the loss of net revenues attributable to that closing, we would incur closing costs such as lease cancellation payments and we would have to write off assets that we could no longer use. If we were to suspend rather than permanently cease our operations in a state, we would also have continuing costs associated with maintaining our branches and our employees in that state, with little or no revenues to offset those costs. We maintain a relationship with our primary regulator in each of the states in which we operate, participate in national and state industry associations, and actively monitor the regulatory environment, and we are currently unaware of any specific proposal that would change the laws and regulations under which we operate in a manner material to our business. In addition to state and federal laws and regulations, our business is subject to various local rules and regulations, such as local zoning regulations. Local zoning boards and other local governing bodies have been increasingly restricting the permitted locations of other consumer finance companies, such as payday lenders and pawn shops. Any future actions taken to require special use permits for, or impose other restrictions on, our ability to provide products could adversely affect our ability to expand our operations or force us to attempt to relocate existing branches. If we were forced to relocate any of our branches, in addition to the costs associated with the relocation, we may be required to hire new employees in the new areas, which may adversely impact the operations of those branches. Relocation of an existing branch may also hinder our collection abilities, as our business model relies on the location of our branches being close to where our customers live in order to successfully collect on outstanding loans. Changes in laws or regulations may have a material adverse effect on all aspects of our business in a particular state and on our overall business, results of operations, and financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the newly created Consumer Finance Protection Bureau, or the CFPB, to adopt rules that could potentially have a serious impact on our ability to offer short-term consumer loans and have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act establishes the CFPB, which became operational on July 21, 2011. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB has regulatory, supervisory, and enforcement powers over providers of consumer financial products that we offer, including explicit supervisory authority to examine and require registration of 33 Table of Contents installment lenders such as ourselves. Included in the powers afforded to the CFPB is the authority to adopt rules describing specified acts and practices as being “unfair,” “deceptive,” or “abusive,” and hence unlawful. Specifically, the CFPB has the authority to declare an act or practice abusive if it, among other things, materially interferes with the ability of a consumer to understand a term or condition of a consumer financial product or service or takes unreasonable advantage of a lack of understanding on the part of the consumer of the product or service. Although the Dodd-Frank Act expressly provides that the CFPB has no authority to establish usury limits, some consumer advocacy groups have suggested that certain forms of alternative consumer finance products, such as installment loans, should be a regulatory priority and it is possible that at some time in the future the CFPB could propose and adopt rules making such lending or other products that we may offer materially less profitable or impractical. Further, the CFPB may target specific features of loans or loan practices, such as refinancings, by rulemaking that could cause us to cease offering certain products or engaging in certain practices. It is possible that the CFPB will adopt rules that specifically restrict refinancings of existing loans. Our refinancings of existing loans are divided into three categories: refinancings of loans in an amount greater than the original loan amount, renewals of existing loans that are current, and renewals of existing loans that are past due, which represented 15.0%, 32.4%, and 0.6%, respectively, of our loan originations in 2012. Any such rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, and financial condition. The CFPB could also adopt rules imposing new and potentially burdensome requirements and limitations with respect to any of our current or future lines of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. The Dodd-Frank Act also gives the CFPB the authority to examine and regulate entities it classifies as a “larger participant of a market for other consumer financial products or services.” The rule will likely cover only the largest installment lenders. We do not yet know whether the definition of larger participant will cover us. In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act’s grant of regulatory powers to the CFPB, the Dodd-Frank Act gives the CFPB authority to pursue administrative proceedings or litigation for violations of federal consumer financial laws. In these proceedings, the CFPB can obtain cease and desist orders (which can include orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief) and monetary penalties ranging from a maximum of $5,000 per day for minor violations of federal consumer financial laws (including the CFPB’s own rules) to $25,000 per day for reckless violations and $1 million per day for knowing violations. If we are subject to such administrative proceedings, litigation, orders, or monetary penalties in the future, this could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Also, where a company has violated Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act or CFPB regulations under Title X, the Dodd-Frank Act empowers state attorneys general and state regulators to bring civil actions for the kind of cease and desist orders available to the CFPB (but not for civil penalties). If the CFPB or one or more state officials find that we have violated the foregoing laws, they could exercise their enforcement powers in ways that would have a material adverse effect on us. In January 2012, President Obama appointed Richard Cordray as director of the CFPB. On January 5, 2012, the CFPB launched a federal supervision program for nonbanks that offer or provide consumer financial products or services. Under the CFPB’s nonbank supervision program, the CFPB will conduct individual examinations and may also require reports from businesses to determine what businesses require greater focus by the CFPB. The frequency and scope of any such examinations will depend on the CFPB’s analysis of risks posed to consumers based on factors such as a particular nonbank’s volume of business, types of products or services, and the extent of state oversight. Rising health care costs and continuing uncertainties concerning the effect of implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 and similar laws may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Despite our efforts to control costs while still providing competitive health care benefits to our employees, significant increases in health care costs continue to occur, and we can provide no assurance that our cost containment efforts in this area will be effective. In March 2010, the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”) and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 became 34 Table of Contents law. While we have performed an initial analysis regarding the anticipated impact of these laws on our cost structure, we may be unable to accurately predict the impact of this federal health care legislation on our health care benefit costs due to continued uncertainty with respect to implementation of such legislation. Significant increases in costs due either to the PPACA or general health care cost increases could adversely impact our operating results, as there is no assurance that we would be able to absorb and/or pass through the costs of such legislation. Our stock price or results of operations could be adversely affected by media and public perception of installment loans and of legislative and regulatory developments affecting activities within the installment lending sector. Consumer advocacy groups and various media sources continue to criticize alternative financial services providers (such as payday and title lenders, check advance companies, and pawnshops). These critics frequently characterize such alternative financial services providers as predatory or abusive toward consumers. If these persons were to criticize the products that we offer, it could result in further regulation of our business. Furthermore, our industry is highly regulated, and announcements regarding new or expected governmental and regulatory action in the alternative financial services sector may adversely impact our stock price and perceptions of our business even if such actions are not targeted at our operations and do not directly impact us. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade their recommendations regarding our common stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrades our common stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our common stock price may decline. If analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our common stock price or trading volume to decline and our common stock to be less liquid. The market price of shares of our common stock may continue to be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market, or political conditions, could reduce the market price of shares of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors due to a number of potential factors, including variations in our quarterly operating results, additions or departures of key management personnel, failure to meet analysts’ earnings estimates, publication of research reports about our industry, litigation and government investigations, changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations or enforcement thereof affecting our business, adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future, changes in market valuations of similar companies or speculation in the press or investment community, announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments, adverse publicity about the industries we participate in, or individual scandals, and in response the market price of shares of our common stock could decrease significantly. In the past few years, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. 35 Table of Contents We have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, for future operation, expansion, and debt repayment and have no current plans to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. The declaration, amount, and payment of any future dividends on shares of common stock will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors (the “Board”). Our Board may take into account general and economic conditions, our financial condition and results of operations, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax, and regulatory restrictions and implications on the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us, and such other factors as our Board may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by covenants of any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including our senior revolving credit facility. As a result, investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may not occur, as the only way to realize future gains on their investment. You may be diluted by the future issuance of additional common stock in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions, or otherwise. We have approximately 987.5 million shares of common stock authorized but unissued. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue these shares of common stock and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to common stock for the consideration and on the terms and conditions established by our Board in its sole discretion, whether in connection with acquisitions or otherwise. We have reserved 950,000 shares for issuance under our 2011 Stock Plan, and we have 552,500 shares available for issuance under the 2011 Stock Plan, as of March 8, 2013. Any common stock that we issue, including under our 2011 Stock Plan or other equity incentive plans that we may adopt in the future, would dilute the percentage ownership held by our stockholders. Concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers, directors, and their affiliates may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Upon completion of our initial public offering, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates controlled approximately 65.9% of our common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders have substantial influence over election of the members of our Board, and thereby have substantial influence over our management and affairs. In addition, they have substantial influence over the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including mergers and other material transactions, and may be able to cause or prevent a change in the composition of our Board or a change in control of our company that could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. We are a party to an amended and restated shareholders agreement with these stockholders. We are an “emerging growth company,” and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements (including the omission of a compensation discussion and analysis), and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. As a result of these exemptions, our stockholders may not have access to certain information that they may deem important. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 36 Table of Contents million as of any June 30 before that time, in which case we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and qualify for and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Certain of our stockholders control a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock, and we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group, or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the Board consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, and (3) the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities. We rely on these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors and our compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees do not consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities identified by our affiliates. Certain of our stockholders and their affiliates are in the business of providing buyout capital and growth capital to developing companies and may acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for the allocation of certain corporate opportunities between us, on the one hand, and certain of our stockholders, on the other hand. As set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, neither such stockholders, nor any director, officer, stockholder, member, manager, or employee of such stockholders, will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. Therefore, a director or officer of our company who also serves as a director, officer, member, manager, or employee of such stockholders may pursue certain acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, such acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by such stockholders to themselves or their other affiliates instead of to us. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract our management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly, and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, we will need to commit significant resources, hire additional staff, and provide additional management oversight. We will be implementing additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. In addition, sustaining our growth also will require us to commit additional management, operational, and financial resources to identify new professionals to join our firm and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. These activities may 37 Table of Contents divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We expect to incur significant additional annual expenses related to these steps and, among other things, additional directors and officers liability insurance, director fees, reporting requirements, transfer agent fees, hiring additional accounting, legal, and administrative personnel, increased auditing and legal fees, and similar expenses. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and applicable state law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our Board. Among other things, these provisions: • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent from and after the date on which the parties to our shareholders agreement cease to beneficially own at least 40% of the total voting power of all then outstanding shares of our capital stock, which will require all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the Board is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws and that our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our Board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, a Texas regulation requires the approval of the Texas Consumer Credit Commissioner for the acquisition, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting or common stock of a consumer finance company. The overall effect of this law, and similar laws in other states, is to make it more difficult to acquire a consumer finance company than it might be to acquire control of a nonregulated corporation. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay, or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 