Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any or all of these risks. Risks Relating to Our Business The telecommunications industry is generally characterized by rapid development, introduction of new technologies, substantial regulatory changes and intense competition, any of which could cause us to suffer price reductions, customer losses, reduced operating margins and/or loss of market share. The telecommunications industry has been, and we believe will continue to be, characterized by several trends, including the following: • rapid development and introduction of new technologies and services, such as VoIP, high speed data services, or other technologies; • substantial regulatory change due to the continuing efforts of the FCC to reform intercarrier compensation, to modify USF availability, and to limit availability of UNEs used by CLECs under the Telecommunications Act of 1996; • increased competition within established markets from current and new market entrants that may provide competing or alternative services; • an increase in mergers and strategic alliances that allow one telecommunications provider to offer increased services or access wider geographic markets; and • the blurring of traditional dividing lines between, and the bundling of, different services, such as local telephone, long distance, wireless, video, data and Internet services. We expect competition to intensify as a result of new competitors and the development of new technologies, products and services. Some or all of these trends may cause us to have to spend significantly more in capital expenditures than we currently anticipate in order to keep existing and to attract new customers. Many of our voice and data competitors, such as cable providers, wireless service providers, Internet access providers and long distance carriers have brand recognition, a national presence and financial, personnel, marketing and other resources that are significantly greater than ours. In addition, due to consolidation and strategic alliances within the telecommunications industry, we cannot predict the number of competitors that will emerge, especially as a result of existing or new federal and state regulatory or legislative actions. Such increased competition from existing and new entities could lead to price reductions, loss of customers, reduced operating margins and/or loss of market share. As competition develops and technology evolves, federal and state regulation of the telecommunications industry continues to change rapidly. We anticipate that this state of regulatory flux will persist in the future, as the FCC and state regulators respond to competitive, technological, and legislative developments by modifying their existing regulations or adopting new ones. Taken together or individually, new or changed regulatory requirements affecting any or all of the local and long distance industries may harm our business and restrict the manner in which we operate our business. The enactment of adverse regulation or regulatory requirements may slow our growth and have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. For a discussion of recent developments in this area, see the “Regulation” section above. Adverse economic conditions may harm our business. Economic conditions may not improve or may decline further for the foreseeable future. Unfavorable economic conditions, including the recession and recent disruptions to the credit and financial markets, could cause customers to slow spending. If demand for our services decreases, our revenues would be adversely affected and churn may increase. In addition, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which may impair the ability of our customers to pay for services they have purchased. Any of the above could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents We are also susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the vendors and third parties on which we rely to provide services or to which we outsource certain functions. The same economic conditions that may affect our customers could also adversely affect vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction in quality or the bankruptcy of our vendors or third parties upon which we rely. Any interruption in the services provided by our vendors or by third parties could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operating and cash flows. Any significant impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets would lead to a decrease in our assets and a reduction in net operating performance. As of December 31, 2011, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $146 million (approximately 29% of total assets), which amount is reflective of a reduction of approximately $65 million in 2011 in connection with asset impairment charges totaling $86 million. If the impact or the timing of ongoing regulatory reform actions are significantly different than what we anticipate or if there are other regulatory or operating changes to our business, we may be forced to record an additional impairment charge, which would lead to a decrease in the company’s assets and reduction in net income. We test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record an impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or indefinite lived intangible asset and the implied fair value of the asset in the period in which the determination is made. The testing of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in underlying business operations, future reporting unit operating performance, existing or new product market acceptance, changes in competition or changes in technologies. Any changes in key assumptions, or actual performance compared with those assumptions, about our business and our future prospects or other assumptions could affect the fair value of one or more of the indefinite-lived intangible assets or of the reporting units, resulting in an additional impairment charge. Our rural local telephone company subsidiaries face substantial competition from competitors that are less heavily regulated than we are, which could increase our expenses or force us to lower prices, causing our revenues and operating results to decline. As the rural local telephone companies for the western Virginia cities of Waynesboro and Covington, and portions of Alleghany, Augusta and Botetourt Counties, Virginia, we currently compete with a number of different providers, many of which are unregulated or less heavily regulated than we are. Our rural telephone company subsidiaries qualify as rural local telephone companies under the Telecommunications Act and are, therefore, exempt from many of the most burdensome obligations of the Telecommunications Act, such as the obligation to sell unbundled elements of our network to our competitors at “forward-looking” prices that the Telecommunications Act places on larger carriers. Nevertheless, our rural telephone company subsidiaries face significant competition, particularly from competitors that do not need to rely on access to our network to reach their customers. For example, wireless providers and cable companies continue to increase their market share and pose a significant competitive risk to our business. Comcast has introduced wireline digital voice services to its cable customers in Charlottesville and other Virginia markets, including in Waynesboro and Augusta County in May 2008, and it may offer these services in our Botetourt County service area in the future. Shenandoah Telecommunications Company purchased the cable property overlapping our RLEC territory in Clifton Forge and Covington, Virginia and began offering digital voice and data services to its customers in these markets during 2010. Wireless carriers provide services used by a growing number of customers as a substitute for wireline voice services. Wireless carriers, cable companies and other VoIP providers are able to compete with our rural telephone company subsidiaries even though the “rural exemption” under the Telecommunications Act is in place. If our rural exemption were removed, CLECs could more easily enter our rural telephone company subsidiaries’ markets. Moreover, the regulatory environment governing wireline local operations has been, and we believe will likely continue to be, very liberal in its approach to promoting competition and network access. Consistent with the experience of other rural telephone companies, our rural telephone company subsidiaries have experienced a reduction in access lines caused by, among other things, wireless competition, cable competition and business customer migration from Centrex services to IP-based and other PBX services using fewer lines. As 12 Table of Contents penetration rates of these technologies increase in our markets, our revenues could decline. Our rural telephone company subsidiaries experienced a net loss of approximately 2,200 access lines in the year ended December 31, 2011, or 6.3% of our access lines served at the end of 2010. A continued net loss of access lines would impact our revenues and operating results. Our rural telephone company subsidiaries are subject to several regulatory regimes and consequently face substantial regulatory burdens and uncertainties. The SCC imposes service quality obligations on our rural telephone company subsidiaries and requires us to adhere to prescribed service quality standards, but many of our competitors are not subject to these standards. These standards measure the performance of various aspects of our business. If we fail to meet these standards, the SCC may impose fines or penalties or take other actions that may impact our revenues or increase our costs. The FCC may also impose fines and forfeitures for failure to comply with FCC rules and requirements. Many of our competitors are unregulated or less heavily regulated than we are. For example, VoIP technology is used to carry voice communications services over a broadband Internet connection. The FCC has ruled that VoIP services are jurisdictionally interstate and that some VoIP arrangements (those not using the Public Switched Telephone Network) are not subject to regulation as telephone services. In 2006, the FCC expanded the base of USF contributions by extending universal service contribution obligations to providers of VoIP service interconnected to the Public Switched Telephone Network. The United States Supreme Court upheld the FCC’s ruling that cable broadband Internet services are not subject to common carrier telecommunications regulation. Regulatory developments at the FCC and the Virginia SCC will reduce revenues that our rural telephone company and Competitive subsidiaries receive from network access charges. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately $24 million and $28 million, respectively, of our rural telephone company subsidiaries’ revenues came from network access charges paid to us by long distance carriers for originating and terminating calls in the areas we serve. These revenues are highly profitable for us. The amount of access charge revenues that we receive is based on rates set by the FCC for interstate long distance calls and the SCC for intrastate long distance calls. Such access rates are subject to change. Our federal access rates are periodically reset by the FCC, and our interstate access rates were subject to a biennial reset on July 1, 2011, which resulted in a reduction of these rates. This rate reset resulted in a $1.2 million reduction in revenue during the second half of 2011. The SCC is currently reducing our access rates to eliminate the Carrier Common Line Charge and could conduct further access reform proceedings or rate cases and earnings reviews, all of which could result in rate reductions. In addition, the Virginia General Assembly could pass legislation mandating intrastate access charge reductions. On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted a significant order on access reform and USF reform. In the order, which was released on November 18, 2011, the FCC determined that interstate and intrastate access charges, as well as local reciprocal compensation, should be eliminated entirely over time. The FCC therefore adopted a uniform national bill-and-keep framework as the ultimate end state for all telecommunications traffic exchanged with any local exchange carrier. Price Cap carriers will be at bill-and-keep in eight years and Rate-of-Return carriers will be at bill-and-keep in 11 years. In the initial phase of the transition to bill-and-keep, intrastate end office switching rates for terminating traffic, carrier common line charges on terminating traffic, and certain intrastate transport rates associated with terminating traffic are to be brought to interstate rates within two steps by July 2013. VOIP providers must begin paying access charges at the federal rate level. The FCC has issued a further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to seek comment on, among other things, the treatment/transition for originating access and for the transport elements not included in the initial order. The FCC will permit carriers to raise end user rates to recover a portion of the loss in access charge revenues. This mechanism is the Access Recovery Charge. The maximum ARC for residential customers will be $3 per month after six years. Multi-line business customers will have their Subscriber Line Charge and ARC combined capped at $12.20 per line. In addition, RLECs will be able to recover a portion of lost access revenues from a new Connect America Fund. This recovery will be calculated initially based on fiscal year 2011 switched access revenues and reciprocal compensation revenues and that baseline will decline at five percent annually. In the order, the FCC established an annual cap on the “high cost” portion of USF of $4.5 billion per year in each of the next six years. This $4.5 billion will be the sole funding source for the existing support mechanisms (high-cost loop, switching support, safety net, etc.); and for the CAF. The FCC has designated approximately $2 billion of the $4.5 billion annually from this fund for RLECs through 2017. 13 Table of Contents The order also affects our Competitive operations. CLECs are required to “mirror” the access charges of the large ILECs in whose service area the CLEC competes. As the large ILECs move toward bill-and-keep for access charges, our CLECs will be mirroring those reductions. In addition, our legacy FiberNet operations in West Virginia have been designated as an Eligible Telecommunications Carrier and receives USF funding. USF funding for CLECs will decrease by 20% annually and thus be eliminated in five years. Regulatory developments at the FCC will reduce revenues that our rural telephone company subsidiaries receive from the federal Universal Service Fund or other fund allocations. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we received approximately $5.0 million and $5.1 million, respectively, in payments from the federal Universal Service Fund in connection with our rural telephone company subsidiaries’ operations. Additionally, for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we received approximately $2.6 million (net) and $2.9 million (net), respectively, from other National Exchange Carrier Association, or NECA, pool distributions to compensate us for a portion of our interstate costs. In its November 18, 2011 order, the FCC established an annual cap on the “high cost” portion of USF of $4.5 billion per year in each of the next six years. This $4.5 billion will be the sole funding source for the existing support mechanisms (high-cost loop, switching support, safety net, etc.) and for the CAF. The FCC has designated approximately $2 billion of the $4.5 billion annually from this fund for RLECs through 2017. It is unknown whether that $2 billion will be sufficient to fund these USF programs for all RLECs, including ours. We have substantial indebtedness, which could restrict our ability to pay dividends and have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity position. In connection with the Business Separation, we borrowed $340 million under a senior secured credit facility with certain financial institutions and used the proceeds to fund a working capital cash reserve and to pay $315 million to NTELOS Inc., a subsidiary of NTELOS. Our new indebtedness ($325 million at December 31, 2011) carries interest expense of approximately $13 million annually. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and business and future operations by, among other things: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions by making it more difficult for us to react quickly to changing conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need to operate, develop and expand our business; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flows from operations to service our debt, which reduces the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; • potentially making us more highly leveraged than our competitors, which could potentially decrease our ability to compete in our industry; • exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, and the industry in which we operate. The ability to make payments on our debt will depend upon our subsidiaries’ future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flows from our subsidiaries’ operating activities are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating our quarterly cash dividend, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. 14 Table of Contents Our senior secured credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. Our senior secured credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on our subsidiaries. These restrictions generally: • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness; • restrict our subsidiaries from entering into transactions with affiliates; • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of their assets; • impose financial covenants relating to the business of our subsidiaries, including leverage and interest coverage ratios; • require our subsidiaries to use a portion of “excess cash flow” (as defined in the debt agreement) to repay indebtedness if our leverage ratio exceeds specified levels; • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make advances to us, which will restrict our ability to pay dividends; and • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to agree to liens on assets or agreements (such as leases). We cannot assure you that those covenants will not adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock, finance our future operations or capital needs or pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default with respect to the senior secured credit facility. If a default occurs, our indebtedness under the senior secured credit facility could be declared immediately due and payable. As a result of general economic conditions, conditions in the lending markets, the results of our business or for any other reason, we may elect or be required to amend or refinance our indebtedness, at or prior to maturity, or enter into additional agreements for senior indebtedness. If interest rates increase, our net income could be negatively affected. Our substantial debt exposes us to adverse changes in interest rates. We cannot predict whether interest rates for long term debt will increase, and thus, we cannot assure you that our future interest expense will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We did enter into interest rate hedges on 50% of the facility through 2014 in order to mitigate this exposure. Lumos Networks and other industry participants are frequently involved in disputes over issues that, if decided adversely to us, could harm our financial and operational prospects. We anticipate that we will continue to be subject to risks associated with the resolution of various disputes, lawsuits, arbitrations and proceedings affecting our business. These issues include the administration and enforcement of existing interconnection agreements and tariffs, the terms of new interconnection agreements, operating performance obligations, intercarrier compensation, treatment of different categories of traffic (for example traffic terminating via wireless or VoIP), the jurisdiction of traffic for intercarrier compensation purposes. We also may be included in proceedings and arbitrations before state and regulatory commissions, private arbitration organizations, and courts over many issues that will be important to our financial and operation success. In addition, for the Competitive segment, we face potential disputes about facilities available, the prices we will pay for these services and facilities. Our Competitive operations face substantial competition and uncertainty relating to their interconnection agreements with the ILEC networks and Pole Attachment Agreements with ILECs and with electric utilities in the markets we serve. Our Competitive operations compete primarily with incumbent local exchange carriers, or ILECs, including Verizon, Frontier Communications Corporation (“Frontier”) and CenturyLink, and, to a lesser extent, CLECs, including Level 3, Zayo, Windstream and Comcast, Cox and other cable companies. We will continue to face competition from other current and future market entrants. We have interconnection agreements with the ILEC networks covering each market in which our Competitive operations serve. Based on customer growth and our assessment of growth opportunities in these markets, we purchase wholesale voice lines, data circuits and access to collocation facilities under these agreements. From time to time, we are required to negotiate amendments to, extensions of, or replacements for these agreements. 15 Table of Contents Additionally, we may be required to negotiate new interconnection agreements in order to enter new markets in the future. We may not be able to successfully negotiate amendments to existing agreements, negotiate new interconnection agreements, renew our existing interconnection agreements, opt in to new agreements or successfully arbitrate replacement agreements for interconnection on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Our inability to do so would adversely affect our existing operations and opportunities to expand our Competitive business in existing and new markets. If rates became unfavorable or we could no longer access collocation facilities, we could be forced to alter our service delivery which could reduce our customer base. As the FCC modifies, changes and implements rules related to unbundling of ILEC network elements and collocation of competitive facilities at ILEC central offices, we generally have to renegotiate our interconnection agreements to implement those new or modified rules. Under federal law, our Competitive operations have a right to use the poles, ducts, and conduits of investor-owned utilities (electric and telephone) at regulated rates for our cables, including fiber optic facilities. Some of the poles we use are exempt from federal regulation because they are owned by utility cooperatives and municipal entities. If the rates, terms and conditions imposed by utilities are unreasonable, or if the utilities do not allow us access to the poles, ducts, and conduits in a timely manner, our business, financial results or financial condition could suffer. We may not be able to sustain our revenue and cash flow growth despite the acquisition of Fibernet and our investment in fiber routes and metro rings. We must grow our business and revenue in order to generate sufficient cash flow to fund our operating requirements. We have pursued several growth initiatives including: • Acquiring Fibernet; • Increasing network investments in our core markets; • Upgrading and integrating network assets acquired from Allegheny Energy and FiberNet; and • Building fiber to wireless carrier cell sites. Our ability to manage this expansion depends on many factors, including our ability to: • Increase revenues and manage churn in the Fibernet business; • Complete customer installations in a timely manner to meet customer demands; • Successfully train our sales force to adapt to evolutionary demand for advanced data services; • Accurately manage our capital expansion plans; and • Remain competitive with customer pricing and service expectations. Our competitors have substantial business advantages over our Competitive operations, and we may not be able to compete successfully. Verizon and other large ILECs such as Frontier and CenturyLink dominate the current market for business and consumer telecommunications services and have a virtual monopoly on telephone lines. These companies represent the dominant competition in much of our target service areas, and we expect this competition to intensify. The large ILECs have established brand names, can diversify their risks across markets nationwide, possess sufficient capital to upgrade existing and deploy new equipment, own their telephone lines and can bundle digital data services with their existing analog voice services and other services, such as long-distance, wireless and video services, to achieve economies of scale in serving customers. Moreover, the large ILECs are aggressively implementing “win-back” programs to regain access line customers lost to competitors and use bundled services to assist in those programs. We pose a competitive risk to the large ILECs that serve our Competitive markets and, as both our competitors and our suppliers, they have little motivation to respond in a timely manner to our requests or to assist in the enhancement of the services we provide to our Competitive customers. We face substantial competition in our Internet and data services business and face regulatory uncertainty, each of which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We currently offer our Internet and data services in rural markets and face competition from other Internet and data service providers, including cable companies. The Internet industry is characterized by the absence of significant barriers to entry and rapid growth in Internet usage among customers. As a result, we expect that our competition 16 Table of Contents will increase from market entrants offering high-speed data services, including DSL, cable and wireless access. Our competition includes cable modem services offered by cable providers; ILECs, such as Verizon, Frontier and CenturyLink in our Competitive territories; and local, regional and national ISPs, both wireline and wireless, including Zayo and Windstream. In addition, wireless carriers are offering 3G and 4G services for internet access. Many of our competitors have financial resources, corporate backing, customer bases, marketing programs and brand names that are greater than ours. Additionally, competitors may charge less than we do for Internet services, causing us to reduce, or preventing us from raising, our fees. Our rights to the use of fiber that are part of our network may be affected by the ability to continue long term contracts and the financial stability of our Indefeasible Rights to Use fiber providers. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 83% of our approximately 5,800 route-mile network is under long term leases or Indefeasible Rights to Use, or IRU, agreements that provide us access to fiber owned by other network providers. These agreements are generally long term and no such agreements are due to expire in 2012. Less than 1% of the IRUs have terms that expire within the next five years. In these agreements, the network owner is responsible for network maintenance for which we pay such network owners. If our network provider under IRU agreements has financial troubles, it could adversely affect our costs, especially maintenance costs and ability to deliver service. We could also incur material expenses if we were required to relocate to alternative network assets. If we cannot obtain and maintain necessary rights-of-way for our network, our operations may be interrupted and we would likely face increased costs. We need to obtain and maintain the necessary rights-of-way for our network from governmental and quasi-governmental entities and third parties, such as railroads, utilities, state highway authorities, local governments, transit authorities and private landowners. We may not be successful in obtaining and maintaining these rights-of-way or obtaining them on acceptable terms. Some agreements relating to rights-of-way may be short-term or revocable at will, and we cannot be certain that we will continue to have access to existing rights-of-way after the governing agreements are terminated or expire. If any of our right-of-way agreements were terminated or could not be renewed, we may be forced to remove our network facilities from the affected areas, relocate or abandon our networks. This would interrupt our operations and force us to find alternative rights-of-way and make unexpected capital expenditures. In addition, our failure to maintain the necessary rights-of-way, franchises, easements, licenses and permits may result in an event of default under our credit agreement and may subject us to legal complaints or claims. Losses or a decrease in usage from certain key customers may result in lower revenues or higher expenses. We generated approximately 9% and 12% of our operating revenue from Verizon in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In addition, we have substantial business relationships with seven other telecommunications carriers. Carriers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 38% of our operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 and approximately 44% of our operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. If we were to lose Verizon or one of these other customers, our revenues would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may require additional capital to respond to customer demand and to competition, and if we fail to raise the capital or fail to have continued access to the capital required to build out and operate our planned networks, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business. We require additional capital to build out and operate our network and for general working capital needs. Our aggregate capital expenditures for 2011 were approximately $62 million, approximately $19 million of which represents network infrastructure and integration costs related to the FiberNet acquisition and approximately $2 million of which represents costs related to the Business Separation. We estimate that our capital expenditures for 2012 will be approximately $52 million to approximately $60 million. Because of our intensely competitive market, we may be required to expand the technical requirements of our network or to build out additional areas within our territories that could result in increased capital expenditures. Any such unplanned capital expenditures may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 17 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for timely supply of equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain sufficient quantities of the products and services we require to operate our businesses successfully. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering these network components on a timely basis, our subscriber growth and operating results could suffer significantly. Our initial choice of a network infrastructure supplier can, where proprietary technology of the supplier is an integral component of the network, cause us effectively to be locked into one or a few suppliers for key network components. As a result, we have become reliant upon a limited number of network equipment manufacturers, including Alcatel-Lucent, Cisco Systems, Inc. and others. If alternative suppliers and vendors become necessary, we may not be able to obtain satisfactory and timely replacement supplies on economically attractive terms, or at all. A system failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers. To be successful, we must provide our customers reliable network service. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include: physical damage to outside plant facilities; power surges or outages; software defects; human error; disruptions beyond our control, including disruptions caused by terrorist activities or severe weather; and failures in operational support systems. Network disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and incur additional expenses. We are dependent on third-party vendors for our information and billing systems. Any significant disruption in our relationship with these vendors could increase our cost and affect our operating efficiencies. Sophisticated information and billing systems are vital to our ability to monitor and control costs, bill customers, process customer orders, provide customer service and achieve operating efficiencies. We currently rely on internal systems and third-party vendors to provide all of our information and processing systems. Some of our billing functions will be provided on a transitional basis by NTELOS. Some of our billing, customer service and management information systems have been developed by third parties and may not perform as anticipated or the third parties may experience interruptions or other problems delivering these systems. In addition, our plans for developing and implementing our information and billing systems rely to some extent on the delivery of products and services by third-party vendors. Our right to use these systems is dependent upon license agreements with third-party vendors. Some of these agreements are cancelable by the vendor, and the cancellation or nonrenewable nature of these agreements could impair our ability to process customer information and/or bill our customers. Since we rely on third-party vendors to provide some of these services, any switch in vendors could be costly and affect operating efficiencies. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements with our labor union when they expire, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements with our labor union, which represented 67 employees as of December 31, 2011. Although we believe that relations with our employees are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, if disputes with our union arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or a work stoppage, we could experience a significant disruption of operations or incur higher ongoing labor costs, either of which could have an adverse effect to the business. Our collective bargaining agreement expires June 30, 2014. If or when we lose a member or members of our senior management, our business may be adversely affected. The success of our business is largely dependent on our senior management team, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel, including talented sales personnel. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for qualified personnel in the telecommunications industry, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. The unexpected loss of key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 18 Table of Contents Unauthorized use of, or interference with, our network could disrupt service and increase our costs. We may incur costs associated with the unauthorized use of our network including administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of fraud. Fraudulent use of our network may impact interconnection costs, capacity costs, administrative costs, fraud prevention costs and payments to other carriers for fraudulent use. Security breaches related to our physical facilities, computer networks, and informational databases may cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our physical facilities and information systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, theft, attacks by hackers, or similar disruptive problems. If hackers gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential personal information concerning our subscribers. In addition, misuse of our customer information could result in more substantial harms perpetrated by third parties. This could damage our business and reputation, and result in a loss of customers. Our future financial performance may be worse than the performance reflected in our historical financial information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. The historical financial information we have included in this annual report on Form 10-K does not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been an independent company during the periods presented or may not be indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be in the future now that we are an independent company. This is primarily a result of the following four factors: • Prior to the Business Separation, our business was operated by NTELOS as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. NTELOS or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to, tax administration, treasury activities, accounting, information technology services, human resources, legal, ethics and compliance program administration, investor relations, certain governance functions (including internal audit) and external financial reporting. Our historical and pro forma financial statements reflect allocations of corporate expenses from NTELOS for these and similar functions. These allocations may be more or less than the comparable expenses we would have incurred had we operated as an independent, publicly-traded company; • Our historical financial information does not reflect the increased level of debt and the related increase in interest expense that we incurred as part of the Business Separation; • Historically, we have shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships with the other businesses of NTELOS. The short-term transition agreements that govern certain relationships between us and NTELOS may not capture all the benefits our business enjoyed as a result of being integrated with the other businesses of NTELOS. The loss of some or all of these benefits could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition; and • Other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of our operation as a company separate from NTELOS. For these reasons, our future financial performance may be worse than the performance implied by the historical financial information we have presented in this annual report on Form 10-K. For additional information about the past financial performance of our business and the basis of the presentation of the historical combined financial statements, see “Selected Combined Financial Data,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and the historical consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from our separation from NTELOS. As an independent, publicly-traded company, we believe that our business will benefit from, among other things, allowing us to pursue the business strategies that best suit our long-term interests, to more efficiently develop and finance expansion plans, to appeal to a different investor base, to create effective incentives for our management and employees that are more closely tied to our business performance and to effectively advocate with respect to regulatory matters without internal corporate conflict. However, as a separate company from NTELOS, we may be more susceptible to market fluctuation and other adverse events. In addition, we may not be able to achieve some or 19 Table of Contents all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as an independent company in the time we expect, if at all. For example, it is possible that investors and securities analysts will not place a greater value on our business as an independent company than on our business as a part of NTELOS. We may be unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate as an independent company, and we will experience increased costs as a result of the Business Separation. NTELOS is contractually obligated to provide to us only those transition services specified in the transition services agreement and the other agreements we entered into with NTELOS in connection with the Business Separation. NTELOS has historically performed many important corporate functions for our operations, including information technology support, customer bill printing and mailing services, treasury, accounting, finance and tax administration, human resources, legal, regulatory, public relations and strategic development functions. Following the Business Separation, NTELOS has provided support to us with respect to most of these functions. The expiration date of the transition services agreement varies by service provided, but is generally no longer than 24 months from October 31, 2011. In addition, the transition services agreement contains provisions that permit either party to terminate the agreement in certain circumstances. Upon the expiration or early termination of the transition services agreement or other agreements, many of the services that are covered in such agreements will be provided internally or by unaffiliated third-parties, and we expect that, in some instances, we will incur higher costs to obtain such services than we incurred prior to the Business Separation or under the terms of such agreements. The amount and timing of when we incur such additional expenses may increase the variability of our earnings and cash flows. If we are unable to lower other expenses or increase revenues, these additional expenses also will lower our earnings and our cash flows. There may be an adverse operational impact on our business as a result of the significant time of our management and other employees and internal resources that will need to be dedicated to building these capabilities during the first few years following the Business Separation that otherwise would be available for other business initiatives and opportunities. If NTELOS does not effectively perform the transition services and the other services that are called for under the transition services agreement and other agreements, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our profitability may decline. After the expiration or early termination of the transition services agreement and the other agreements, we may be unable to replace the services specified in such agreements in a timely manner or on comparable terms. Similarly, we historically purchased a wide variety of products and services, including software licenses, from third-parties as part of NTELOS. We may experience some increased costs as a result of our inability to continue to purchase products and services on terms that are as favorable to us as those obtained under these combined purchasing arrangements. Although we cannot predict the extent of any such increased costs, it is possible that such costs could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Our separation from NTELOS could adversely affect our business and profitability due to our loss of NTELOS’s brand and reputation. As a business unit of NTELOS, we previously marketed our products and services using the “NTELOS” brand name and logo, and we believe the association with NTELOS provided us with goodwill among our customers due to NTELOS’s regionally recognized brands and perceived high-quality products and services. We may not be able to achieve or maintain comparable name recognition or status under our new “Lumos” brand, which could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, resulting in reduced sales and revenues. We will also incur capital and other costs associated with launching and marketing our new brand. We may have been able to receive better terms from unaffiliated third-parties than the terms provided in our agreements with NTELOS. The agreements related to our separation from NTELOS, including the separation and distribution agreement, transition services agreement, commercial services agreements, intellectual property agreements, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement and other agreements, were negotiated in the context of our separation from NTELOS while we were still part of NTELOS and, accordingly, may not reflect terms that would have been reached between unaffiliated parties. The terms of the agreements we negotiated in the context of our separation relate to, among other things, allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between NTELOS and us as well as certain ongoing arrangements between NTELOS and us. Had these agreements been negotiated with unaffiliated third-parties, they might have been more favorable to us. Upon the expiration or early termination of these agreements, many of the services that are covered in such agreements will be provided internally or by 20 Table of Contents unaffiliated third-parties, and we expect that, in some instances, we will incur higher costs to obtain such services than we incurred prior to the Business Separation or under the terms of such agreements. The amount and timing of when we incur such additional expenses may increase the variability of our earnings and cash flows. If we are unable to lower other expenses or increase revenues, these additional expenses also will lower our earnings and our cash flows. If the Distribution does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, tax could be imposed on NTELOS and we may be required to indemnify NTELOS for such tax. If the Distribution were not to be tax-free to NTELOS, NTELOS would be required to recognize gain in an amount up to the fair market value of our common stock that NTELOS distributed on the distribution date. Furthermore, events subsequent to the Distribution could cause NTELOS to recognize gain on the Distribution. For example, under Code Section 355(e), even minimal acquisitions of either our equity securities or NTELOS’s equity securities that are deemed to be part of a plan or a series of related transactions that include the Distribution could cause NTELOS to recognize gain on the Distribution. Under the tax matters agreement entered into between NTELOS and us, we are generally required to indemnify NTELOS against any tax resulting from the Distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from any of the following events (among others): (1) an acquisition of all or a portion of our stock or assets, whether by merger or otherwise, (2) any negotiations, understandings, agreements or arrangements with respect to transactions or events that cause the Distribution to be treated as part of a plan pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, stock representing a 50% or greater interest in Lumos Networks, (3) certain other actions or failures to act by us, or (4) any breach by us of certain of our representations or undertakings. Our indemnification obligations to NTELOS and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. We are agreeing to certain restrictions to preserve the tax-free treatment of the Distribution to NTELOS, which may reduce our strategic and operating flexibility. To preserve the tax-free treatment to NTELOS of the Distribution, under the tax matters agreement that we entered into with NTELOS, we are prohibited from taking or failing to take any action that prevents the Distribution and related transactions from being tax-free. Further, for the two-year period following the Distribution, we may be prohibited, except in specified circumstances, from: entering into any transaction resulting in the acquisition of 40% or more of our stock or 60% or more of our assets, whether by merger or otherwise; merging, consolidating or liquidating; issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds; repurchasing our common stock; and ceasing to actively conduct our wireline business. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. The agreements that we entered into with NTELOS may involve, or may appear to involve, conflicts of interest. In connection with the Business Separation, we entered into certain agreements with NTELOS to provide a framework for our initial relationship with NTELOS following the Business Separation. We negotiated these agreements with NTELOS while we were still a wholly owned subsidiary of NTELOS. Accordingly, our executive officers and some of our directors were employees, officers or directors of NTELOS or its subsidiaries at the time of the negotiations and, as such, had an obligation to serve the interests of NTELOS and its subsidiaries. As a result, they could be viewed as having had a conflict of interest. Certain of our directors and officers may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their cross officerships, directorships and stock ownership with NTELOS. We continue to have overlap in directors and executive officers with NTELOS, which may lead to conflicting interests. James A. Hyde, the Chief Executive Officer and President of NTELOS, is serving as our Chief Executive Officer for a transition period. Our board of directors includes Mr. Hyde and representatives of Quadrangle Capital Partners LLP and certain of its affiliates (“Quadrangle”) who are members of the board of directors of NTELOS. Mr. Hyde and the members of our board of directors who overlap with NTELOS have fiduciary duties to both NTELOS’s and our stockholders. These individuals may have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting each company. This arrangement may also subject us to regulation under state and federal affiliated interest’s regulatory requirements. 21 Table of Contents Because of their current or former positions with NTELOS, certain of our directors and executive officers may continue to own shares of NTELOS common stock and the individual holdings may be significant for some of these individuals compared to their total assets. This ownership may create, or, may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for NTELOS and Lumos Networks. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute that may arise between us and NTELOS regarding the terms of the agreements governing the Business Separation and the relationship thereafter between the companies. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we enter into additional commercial arrangements with NTELOS in the future. In connection with our separation from NTELOS, NTELOS will indemnify us for certain liabilities and we will indemnify NTELOS for certain liabilities. If we are required to indemnify NTELOS, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial position could be negatively impacted. In the case of NTELOS’s indemnity, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or as to NTELOS’s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and certain other agreements with NTELOS, NTELOS agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify NTELOS for certain liabilities, in each case for uncapped amounts. Indemnities that we may be required to provide NTELOS are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the Distribution. Third-parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that NTELOS has agreed to retain. Further, there can be no assurance that the indemnity from NTELOS will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that NTELOS will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from NTELOS any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Quadrangle entities continue to have significant influence over our business and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control, change in management or business combination that may not be beneficial to our stockholders and as a result, may depress the market price of our stock. As of December 31, 2011, Quadrangle beneficially owns approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock. Additionally, in accordance with a shareholders agreement between Quadrangle and us, three of the eight directors that will serve on our board of directors are representatives or designees of Quadrangle. By virtue of such stock ownership and representation on the board of directors, Quadrangle will have a significant influence over day-to-day corporate and management policies and all matters submitted to our stockholders, including the election of the directors, and may exercise significant control over our business, policies and affairs. Quadrangle’s interests as a stockholder may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders. Additionally, such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, change in management or business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders and as a result, may depress the market price of our stock. Our stock price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These sales may also make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities at a time and at a price we deem appropriate. In our shareholders agreement with Quadrangle, we have granted Quadrangle the right to require us to register their shares of our common stock, representing approximately 5.7 million shares of our common stock. Accordingly, the number of shares subject to registration rights is substantial and the sale of these shares and any other shares with tag-along registration rights may have a negative impact on the market price for our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and the General Corporation Law of Delaware could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could limit the price certain investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Certain provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, the state in which we are organized, and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may inhibit a change of control not approved by our board of directors or changes in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in the entrenchment of current management. These provisions include: • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; 22 Table of Contents • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our bylaws; • limitations on the removal of directors; • the inability of the stockholders to act by written consent; and • the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and additional shares of our common stock. A portion of our current investor base may be required to sell our stock. A portion of our common stock is held by index funds tied to broad stock indices in which we are included as a component. If at any time we are not included as a component in those indices, the corresponding index funds will likely be required to sell their shares of our common stock and the price of our common stock could be depressed by those sales. We may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock in the future. We intend to pay regular quarterly dividends on our common stock. However, any decision to declare future dividends will be made at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, investment opportunities, financial condition, contractual restrictions, and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. We are a holding company that does not operate any business of our own. As a result, we are dependent on cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries to make dividend payments to our stockholders. Amounts that can be made available to us to pay cash dividends or repurchase stock are permitted by our credit agreement within the parameters of a restricted payment basket. Our certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with the Company. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Our certificate of incorporation further provides that any person or entity purchasing or acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions described above. This forum selection provision in our certificate of incorporation may limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 23 Table of Contents 