Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Significant loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers will not repay their loans. We provide for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial condition and results of operations. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount recorded in our allowance for loan losses. In addition, we might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. Furthermore, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. Downturns in the national economy and the local economies of the areas in which our loans are concentrated could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures or repossessions resulting in increased charge-off amounts and the need for additional loan loss allowances in future periods. In addition, our determination as to the amount of our allowance for loan losses is subject to review by our primary regulators, the FDIC and the NCCoB, as part of their examination process, which may result in the establishment of an additional allowance based upon the judgment of the FDIC and/or the NCCoB after a review of the information available at the time of their examination. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to $7.3 million and $8.5 million, or 1.63% and 2.20% of total loans outstanding and 610.44% and 739.62% of nonperforming loans, at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. A large loss could deplete the allowance and require increased provisions to replenish the allowance, which would decrease our earnings. In addition, at December 31, 2013, we had sixty-six loan relationships with outstanding balances that exceeded $1.0 million, all of which were performing according to their original terms. The deterioration of one or more of these loan relationships could result in a significant increase in our nonperforming loans and our provision for loan losses, which would negatively impact our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Our commercial lending activities have exposed us to losses in recent periods and our continued emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to future lending risks. Our emphasis on commercial mortgage, commercial construction and commercial land development loans has exposed us to losses as the recent economic recession has adversely affected many businesses and developers in our market area. We are continuing to emphasize our commercial mortgage and commercial and industrial lending activities. At December 31, 2013, 26.3% of our commercial real estate loans were secured by owner-occupied properties. At December 31, 2013, our loan portfolio included $172.0 million, or 38.2% of total loans, of commercial mortgage loans, $15.6 million, or 3.5% of total loans, of commercial construction and land development loans, and $14.8 million, or 3.3% of total loans, of commercial and industrial loans. Commercial mortgage loans, commercial construction and land development loans and commercial and industrial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of nonpayment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers, and in the case of commercial construction and land development loans, the successful completion and sale of the project. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial and industrial loans also expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. A slowing or declining of national and local economic conditions could result in increases in our level of nonperforming loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and in our primary market area. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in our primary market area in particular. In recent years, the national economy has experienced recessionary conditions that have resulted in general economic downturns, with rising unemployment levels, declines in real estate values and an erosion in consumer confidence. Over the course of the past year, the tourism industry in the Asheville metropolitan area has largely recovered, which positively impacted the economy in a number of our local markets, such as Buncombe and Henderson Counties, that directly benefit from this industry, and the overall unemployment rate in the Asheville metropolitan area decreased to 5.0% in December 2013 from 7.5% in December 2012. McDowell County, which is located in our primary market area, continued to experience unemployment rates that exceeded both the national and state unemployment rates. As of December 2013, the unemployment rate for McDowell County was 7.6%, while the national and state unemployment rates were 6.7% and 6.9%, respectively. In addition, our primary market area is recovering from a softening of the local real estate market, that included reductions in local property values and declines in the local manufacturing industry, which employs many of our borrowers. Economic downturns elevated levels of unemployment, further declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms. Deterioration in local economic conditions could also drive the level of loan losses beyond the level we have provided for in our allowance for loan and lease losses, which could necessitate increasing our provision for loans losses and reduce our earnings. Additionally, the demand for our products and services could be reduced, which would adversely impact our liquidity and the level of revenues we generate. 23 Table of Contents Further declines in real estate values may cause us to incur losses in our portfolio of foreclosed real estate. Our portfolio of foreclosed real estate includes parcels of unimproved land, land with completed structures and land with structures in various stages of completion. We may have to incur additional costs to complete certain parcels of our foreclosed properties in order to market and sell the parcels, which may not fully recover upon the sale of the parcel thereby causing us to incur additional losses. In addition, general declines in the values of real estate in our market areas may cause us to recognize further write-downs on our foreclosed real estate or to incur losses when we sell our foreclosed real estate. The geographic concentration of our loan portfolio and lending activities makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy. Nearly all of our loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in our primary market area, which consists of Buncombe, Madison, McDowell, Henderson and Transylvania Counties in North Carolina and the surrounding areas. This concentration makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy and real estate markets. Adverse conditions in the local economy such as inflation, unemployment, recession or other factors beyond our control could impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which could impact our net interest income. Decreases in local real estate values could adversely affect the value of the property used as collateral for our loans, which could cause us to realize a loss in the event of a foreclosure. Changes in interest rates may hurt our profits and investment securities values. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our interest rate spread is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our borrowings. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our interest rate spread to expand or contract. Our liabilities are shorter in duration than our assets, so they will adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs will rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our interest rate spread to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—will also reduce our interest rate spread. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities are shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we will experience pressure on our interest rate spread as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. In addition, our mortgage banking income is sensitive to changes in interest rates. During periods of rising and relatively higher interest rates, mortgage originations for purchased homes can decline considerably and refinanced mortgage activity can severely decrease. During periods of falling and relatively lower interest rates, the opposite effects can occur. 24 Table of Contents Our business strategy includes moderate growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. Over the long term, we expect to experience growth in our assets, our deposits and the scale of our operations, whether through organic growth or acquisitions. However, achieving our growth targets requires us to successfully execute our business strategies. Our business strategies include continuing to diversify our loan portfolio by increasing our commercial and industrial lending activities and introducing new and competitive deposit products. Our ability to successfully grow will also depend on the continued availability of loan opportunities that meet our stringent underwriting standards. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan, and our business and prospects could be adversely affected. Financial reform legislation recently enacted by Congress has, among other things, tightened capital standards, created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and resulted in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) enacted in 2010 has significantly changed the current bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as stringent as those required for insured depository institutions, and the components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. The legislation also established a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today, and directed the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as Asheville Savings, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10.0 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10.0 billion or less in assets, such as the Bank, will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act increased shareholder influence over boards of directors by requiring certain public companies to give shareholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Asheville Savings is subject to extensive government regulation, supervision and examination by the FDIC and the NCCoB and the Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the FRB. Such regulation, supervision and examination govern the activities in which we may engage, and is intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance fund and our depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations, including the potential for increased compliance costs. 25 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act required the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate consolidated capital requirements for depository institution holding companies that are no less stringent, both quantitatively and in terms of components of capital, than those applicable to institutions themselves. In early July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board approved revisions to its capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action rules that implement the revised standards of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, commonly called Basel III, and address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. “Basel III” refers to two consultative documents released by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in December 2009, the rules text released in December 2010, and loss absorbency rules issued in January 2011, which include significant changes to bank capital, leverage and liquidity requirements. The rules include new risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which are effective January 1, 2015, and revise the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The new minimum capital level requirements applicable to the Company will be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The rules eliminate the inclusion of certain instruments, such as trust preferred securities, from Tier 1 capital. Instruments issued prior to May 19, 2010 will be grandfathered for companies with consolidated assets of $15 billion or less. The rules also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital requirements, which must consist entirely of common equity Tier 1 capital and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase by that amount each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the deposit insurance fund. As a result, the FDIC significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Such increases in the base assessment rate increase our deposit insurance costs and negatively impact our earnings. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. Although we consider ourselves competitive in our primary market area of Buncombe, Madison, McDowell, Henderson and Transylvania Counties in North Carolina and the surrounding areas, we face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Table of Contents 