Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any or all of these risks. Risks Relating to Our Business: Adverse economic conditions may harm our business. Economic uncertainty or a lack of economic growth could negatively impact our business results. Unfavorable economic conditions, including a return to recession or disruptions to the credit and financial markets, could cause customers to slow or delay spending. If demand for our services decreases, our revenues would be adversely affected and churn may increase. In addition, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which may impair the ability of our customers to pay for services they have purchased. Any of the above could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are also susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the vendors and third parties on which we rely to provide services or to which we outsource certain functions. The same economic conditions that may affect our customers could also adversely affect vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction in quality or the bankruptcy of our vendors or third parties upon which we rely. Any interruption in the services provided by our vendors or by third parties could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to successfully implement our strategy and thereby sustain our revenue and cash flow growth. We must grow our strategic data business and manage the decline in our legacy voice and access segments in order to sustain our revenue and cash flow growth. We have pursued several growth initiatives including: · Increasing network investments in our core markets; · Investing in fiber network expansion into new adjacent geographic markets; · Building fiber to wireless carrier cell sites; and · Launching new products and services that meet customers’ data and IP needs. Our ability to manage this expansion depends on many factors, including our ability to: · Attract new customers and sell additional services to existing customers by effectively implementing our sales and marketing plans; · Manage churn, particularly as it relates to upgrading existing customers from legacy technology to advanced Ethernet services; · Complete customer installations in a timely manner to meet customer demands; · Successfully train our sales force to adapt to evolutionary demand for advanced data service; · Efficiently manage our capital expansion plans; · Manage increased competition from other data service providers in existing and new markets; and · Remain competitive with customer pricing and service expectations. We face substantial competition in our markets; our competitors may have substantial business advantages over us and we may not be able to compete successfully. We compete with ILECs, broadband service providers, incumbent cable operators, fiber companies and to a lesser extent, CLECs. As a result of the rapid growth in demand for broadband data transport, we expect that our competition will increase from market entrants offering FTTC, metro Ethernet solutions and other high-speed data services, including cable and wireless access. Our competition includes ILECs, such as AT&T, Verizon, Frontier, Windstream and Centurylink; national fiber service providers and CLECs, including Level 3, Zayo and Time Warner Telecom, and national and regional cable operators, such as Comcast, Shentel, Cox, Time Warner Cable and Suddenlink. In addition, due to consolidation and strategic alliances within the telecommunications industry, we cannot predict the number of competitors that will emerge. Such increased competition from existing and new entities could lead to price reductions, loss of customers, reduced operating margins and/or loss of market share. 9 Table of Contents Many of our competitors have financial resources, corporate backing, customer bases, marketing programs and brand names that are greater than ours. Additionally, competitors may charge less than we do for services, causing us to reduce, or preventing us from raising, our fees. Network delays or interruptions of service could cause us to lose customers. To be successful, we must provide our customers reliable network service. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include: physical damage to outside plant facilities, power surges or outages; network equipment failures due to aging or other factors; software defects; human error; disruptions beyond our control, including disruptions caused by terrorist activities or severe weather; and failures in operational support systems. Furthermore, as the demand for increased bandwidth from our customers has grown and as it continues to grow, our fiber optic network could experience greater data loads that may also result in network interruptions in service and reduced capacity for our customers. Service interruptions and lack of redundancy could cause us to incur additional expenses and/or issue network outage credits to our customers and may cause us to lose customers. The telecommunications industry is generally characterized by rapid development and introduction of new technologies; if we are unable to adapt to these rapid changes, we could suffer price reductions, customer losses, reduced operating margins and/or loss of market share. The telecommunications industry continues to experience rapid and significant changes in technologies and architectures to deliver new services to customers and to deliver existing services more cost-effectively. We expect that new technologies will continue to enable advances in our customers’ environments that create new demand drivers. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to the rapidly changing needs and demands of our customers on a timely basis and to compete with our competitors' offerings. Our failure to obtain and integrate new technologies and applications, and develop new service offerings to meet those customer needs or to keep pace with or exceed the service capabilities of our competitors could impact the breadth of our service portfolio, resulting in less competitive and compelling offerings that could impair our ability to attract and retain customers. We may be unable to keep pace with competitive offerings without making significant additional capital investments or adversely affecting our margins. Revenue from certain of our more traditional products such as dedicated network services and certain voice services is growing slowly or is declining. As a result, our overall revenue growth is driven primarily by our Ethernet services and we must continue to develop those and other next generation services in order to continue to grow our revenue. New product development may be capital intensive and may pressure margins until the new products begin to generate substantial revenue. New products that are largely software based are increasingly complex and may require more customer support and additional systems development. In addition to investing in new technologies, we must replace equipment that supports our traditional services as that equipment ages or becomes redundant. If we do not properly manage this process, including the migration of customers to our newer technologies, we may lose customers and market share, and our margins and returns could be adversely affected. Losses or a decrease in usage from certain key customers may result in lower revenues or higher expenses. We generated approximately 10% of our operating revenue from Verizon in each of the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. In addition, we have substantial business relationships with several other telecommunications carriers. Our next four largest carrier customers, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 21% and 17% of our operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. If we were to lose Verizon or one or more of these other carrier customers, our revenues would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Many of our competitors are less heavily regulated than we are, which could increase our expenses or force us to lower prices, causing our revenues and operating results to decline. As the rural local telephone companies for the western Virginia cities of Waynesboro and Covington, and portions of the Virginia counties of Alleghany, Augusta and Botetourt, we currently compete with a number of different providers, many of which are unregulated or less heavily regulated than we are including Verizon and other large ILECs such as Frontier and CenturyLink. These companies represent the dominant competition in much of our target service areas, and we expect this competition to intensify. The large ILECs have established brand names, can diversify their risks across markets nationwide, possess sufficient capital to upgrade existing and deploy new equipment, own their telephone lines and can bundle digital data services with their existing analog voice services and other services, such as long-distance, wireless and video services, to achieve economies of scale in serving customers. Additionally, the large ILECs that serve our markets are also our suppliers, which may affect their willingness to respond in a timely manner to our requests or to assist in the enhancement of the services we provide to our customers. Our rural telephone company subsidiaries qualify as rural local telephone companies under the Telecommunications Act and are, therefore, exempt from many of the most burdensome obligations of the Telecommunications Act, such as the obligation to sell unbundled elements of our network to our competitors at “forward-looking” prices that the Telecommunications Act places on larger 10 Table of Contents carriers. Nevertheless, our rural telephone company subsidiaries face significant competition, particularly from competitors that do not need to rely on access to our network to reach their customers. Wireless carriers, cable companies and other VoIP providers are able to compete with our rural telephone company subsidiaries even though the “rural exemption” under the Telecommunications Act is in place. If our rural exemption were removed, CLECs could more easily enter our rural telephone company subsidiaries’ markets. Moreover, the regulatory environment governing wireline local operations has been, and we believe will likely continue to be, very liberal in its approach to promoting competition and network access. Consistent with the experience of other rural telephone companies, our rural telephone company subsidiaries have experienced a reduction in access lines caused by, among other things, wireless competition, cable competition and business customer migration from Centrex services to IP-based and other PBX services using fewer lines. As penetration rates of these technologies increase in our markets, our revenues from our legacy voice and access segments could decline at a faster pace than currently expected. Our rural telephone company subsidiaries experienced a net loss of approximately 2,300 access lines in the year ended December 31, 2013, or 7.4% of our access lines served at the end of 2012. A continued net loss of access lines would negatively impact our revenues and operating results. We have substantial indebtedness, which could restrict our ability to pay dividends and have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity position. On April 30, 2013, Lumos Networks Operating Company, our wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into a $425 million credit facility (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility consists of a $100 million senior secured five-year term loan, a $275 million senior secured six-year term loan and a $50 million senior secured five-year revolving credit facility. Our indebtedness under the Credit Facility was $373.6 million at December 31, 2013 and it carries interest expense of approximately $14 million annually. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and business and future operations by, among other things: · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions by making it more difficult for us to react quickly to changing conditions; · limiting our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need to operate, develop and expand our business; · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flows from operations to service our debt, which reduces the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; · potentially making us more highly leveraged than our competitors, which could potentially decrease our ability to compete in our industry; · exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; and · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, and the industry in which we operate. The ability to make payments on our debt will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flows from our subsidiaries’ operating activities are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating our quarterly cash dividend, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. Our Credit Facility imposes certain operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. Our Credit Facility imposes certain operating and financial restrictions on our subsidiaries. These restrictions generally: · restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness; · restrict our subsidiaries from entering into transactions with affiliates; · restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of their assets; · impose financial covenants relating to the business of our subsidiaries, including leverage and interest coverage ratios; · require our subsidiaries to use a portion of “excess cash flow” (as defined in the debt agreement) to repay indebtedness if our leverage ratio exceeds specified levels; · restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make advances to us, which will restrict our ability to pay dividends; and 11 Table of Contents · restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to agree to liens on assets or agreements (such as leases). We cannot assure you that those covenants will not adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock, finance our future operations or capital needs or pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default with respect to the Credit Facility. If a default occurs, our indebtedness under the Credit Facility could be declared immediately due and payable. We may require additional capital to respond to customer demand and to competition, and if we fail to raise the capital or fail to have continued access to the capital required to fund our strategic growth plan, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business. Our strategic growth plans require a significant amount of capital investment in our fiber network. Our aggregate capital expenditures for 2013 were approximately $68 million, approximately 75% of which were for success-based customer projects and network expansion and the remaining 25% was for infrastructure upgrades, network sustainment and internal IT projects. We estimate that our capital expenditures for 2014 will be in the range of approximately $70 million to $75 million. To remain competitive, we will need to upgrade the technical requirements of our existing network infrastructure and build out our network with advanced fiber technology within our territories which will require a significant investment of capital resources. A portion of our planned capital expenditures in 2014 are earmarked to fund these projects; however, the cost or extent of the work could be more significant than anticipated. Any such unplanned capital expenditures may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Although we refinanced our debt in 2013 on favorable terms and expect to be able to fund our capital requirements with cash on hand and cash generated from operations, we may need to obtain additional financing in the future. There is no assurance that we would be able to secure such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our RLEC subsidiaries are subject to several regulatory regimes and consequently face substantial regulatory burdens and uncertainties; regulatory developments will further reduce revenues that we receive from access charges and/or from the federal Universal Service Fund, the Connect America Fund or other fund allocations. Our rural telephone company subsidiaries are subject to several regulatory regimes and consequently face substantial regulatory burdens and uncertainties. The SCC imposes service quality obligations on our rural telephone company subsidiaries and requires us to adhere to prescribed service quality standards, but many of our competitors are not subject to these standards. These standards measure the performance of various aspects of our business. If we fail to meet these standards, the SCC may impose fines or penalties or take other actions that may impact our revenues or increase our costs. The FCC may also impose fines and forfeitures for failure to comply with FCC rules and requirements. Over time, FCC and state regulations have resulted in reducing our switched access and reciprocal compensation revenue. In 2011, the FCC released an order comprehensively reforming its Universal Service Fund (“USF”) and intercarrier compensation systems. In the order, the FCC determined that interstate and intrastate access charges, as well as local reciprocal compensation, should be eliminated entirely over time. These FCC pricing reductions commenced on July 1, 2012 and continue through July 1, 2020. A portion of the access revenue previously received from carriers is being recovered through payments from the FCC’s “Connect America Fund” (“CAF”) and from increases in charges to end user subscribers in the form of rate increases and the FCC’s “Access Recovery Charge.” For the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized $16.6 million of revenue from cost recovery mechanisms, including $10.3 million from the CAF. Regulatory changes could impact the amount and timing of the revenues received from these funds in the future. There is no guarantee that we will recover all or a portion of lost revenues resulting from intercarrier compensation system reform or that we will not be subject to further rate reductions in the future. Furthermore, by accepting government funding, we are subject to audit by the FCC or certain other government agencies that administer the funds and our methodologies or approaches taken to determine the amounts of eligible access revenues or costs could be called into question during an audit. Although we believe our methodologies and approaches are compliant and reasonable, there is no assurance that an audit would not result in a demand for a partial refund or nonpayment of future funding by the respective government agency. Lumos Networks and other industry participants are frequently involved in disputes over issues that, if decided adversely to us, could harm our financial and operational prospects. We anticipate that we will continue to be subject to risks associated with the resolution of various disputes, lawsuits, arbitrations and proceedings affecting our business. These issues include the administration and enforcement of existing interconnection agreements and tariffs, the terms of new interconnection agreements, operating performance obligations and intercarrier compensation. We also may be included in proceedings and arbitrations before state and regulatory commissions, private arbitration organizations, and courts over many issues that will be important to our financial and operation success. While we believe we have adequate reserves for the probable and estimable losses related to the expected outcomes of our current disputes, the results of these disputes are inherently unpredictable. The implementation of our business strategy is dependent upon our ability to maintain, expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to growth and changing business needs. 12 Table of Contents Our business relies on our data, billing and other operational and financial reporting and business systems. To effectively implement our business strategy, we will need to continue to maintain and, in some cases, make upgrades to modernize our information technology systems and infrastructure, which can be costly. Our inability to maintain, expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include service or billing interruptions, the diversion of critical resources and inhibiting our growth plans due to an inability to scale effectively. In 2013, we began an upgrade of our internal business processes and systems including financial, provisioning, billing and customer care, which will allow us to scale our back office systems as our business continues to grow. We expect to begin realizing the benefits of this initiative in the second half of 2014, including operating efficiencies, improved customer facing capabilities and streamlined business processes. If we are unable to successfully implement the systems in a timely manner, we could face delays or disruptions in providing services to or billing our customers or we could incur additional costs, which could have an adverse impact to our financial and operating results. We are dependent on third-party vendors for our information and billing systems. Any significant disruption in our relationship with these vendors could increase our costs and affect our operating efficiencies. Sophisticated information and billing systems are vital to our ability to monitor and control costs, bill customers, process customer orders, provide customer service and achieve operating efficiencies. We currently rely on internal systems and third-party vendors to provide all of our information and processing systems. Some of our billing, customer service and management information systems have been developed by third parties and may not perform as anticipated or the third parties may experience interruptions or other problems delivering these systems. In addition, our plans for developing and implementing our information and billing systems rely to some extent on the delivery of products and services by third-party vendors. Our right to use these systems is dependent upon license agreements with third-party vendors. Some of these agreements are cancelable by the vendor, and the cancellation or nonrenewable nature of these agreements could impair our ability to process customer information and/or bill our customers. Since we rely on third-party vendors to provide some of these services, any switch in vendors could be costly and affect operating efficiencies. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements with our labor union when they expire, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements with our labor union, which represented 49 employees as of December 31, 2013. Although we believe that relations with our employees are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, if disputes with our union arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or a work stoppage, we could experience a significant disruption of operations or incur higher ongoing labor costs, either of which could have an adverse effect to the business. Our collective bargaining agreements expire June 30, 2014 and are currently under review for extension. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for timely supply of equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain sufficient quantities of the products and services we require to operate our businesses successfully. We depend on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering these network components on a timely basis, our subscriber growth and operating results could suffer significantly. Our initial choice of a network infrastructure supplier can, where proprietary technology of the supplier is an integral component of the network, cause us effectively to be locked into one or a few suppliers for key network components. As a result, we have become reliant upon a limited number of network equipment manufacturers, including Cisco, Alcatel-Lucent, Ciena and others. If alternative suppliers and vendors become necessary, we may not be able to obtain satisfactory and timely replacement supplies on economically attractive terms, or at all. If we cannot obtain and maintain necessary rights-of-way and access to pole attachments for our network, our operations may be interrupted and we would likely face increased costs. We need to obtain and maintain the necessary rights-of-way for our network from governmental and quasi-governmental entities and third parties, such as railroads, utilities, state highway authorities, local governments, transit authorities and private landowners. We may not be successful in obtaining and maintaining these rights-of-way or obtaining them on acceptable terms. Some agreements relating to rights-of-way may be short-term or revocable at will, and we cannot be certain that we will continue to have access to existing rights-of-way after the governing agreements are terminated or expire. If any of our right-of-way agreements were terminated or could not be renewed, we may be forced to remove our network facilities from the affected areas, relocate or abandon our networks. This would interrupt our operations and force us to find alternative rights-of-way and make unexpected capital expenditures. In addition, our failure to maintain the necessary rights-of-way, franchises, easements, licenses and permits may result in an event of default under our credit agreement and may subject us to legal complaints or claims. We may also incur costs resulting from a disruption of service or the relocation of equipment for other carriers that use our network under IRUs granted by us. 13 Table of Contents Under federal law, we have a right to use the poles, ducts, and conduits of investor-owned utilities (electric and telephone) at regulated rates for our cables, including fiber optic facilities. Some of the poles we use are exempt from federal regulation because they are owned by utility cooperatives and municipal entities. If the rates, terms and conditions imposed by utilities are unreasonable, or if the utilities do not allow us access to the poles, ducts, and conduits in a timely manner, our business, financial results or financial condition could suffer. Our rights to the use of fiber that are part of our network may be affected by the ability to continue long term contracts and the financial stability of our Indefeasible Rights to Use fiber providers. A portion of our services are provided on network fiber facilities licensed or leased from other network service providers through IRUs or similar arrangements. The facilities under these agreements have remaining terms generally ranging from 5 years to 25 years. In these agreements, the network owner is responsible for network maintenance for which we pay such network owners. If our network provider under IRU agreements has financial troubles, it could adversely affect our costs, especially maintenance costs and ability to deliver service. Also, if our network providers under IRU agreements are unable to obtain and maintain necessary rights-of-way and access to pole attachments for their fiber networks or if they fail to renew or extend our IRUs, our operations may be interrupted and/or we could incur material expenses if we were required to relocate to alternative network assets. We are dependent upon interconnection agreements with other carriers to reach some of our customer locations. We have interconnection agreements with the ILEC networks in the markets we serve. Based on customer growth and our assessment of growth opportunities in these markets, we purchase wholesale voice lines, data circuits and access to collocation facilities under these agreements. From time to time, we are required to negotiate amendments to, extensions of, or replacements for these agreements. Additionally, we may be required to negotiate new interconnection agreements in order to enter new markets in the future. We may not be able to successfully negotiate amendments to existing agreements, negotiate new interconnection agreements, renew our existing interconnection agreements, opt in to new agreements or successfully arbitrate replacement agreements for interconnection on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Our inability to do so would adversely affect our existing operations and opportunities to expand our business in existing and new markets. If rates became unfavorable or we could no longer access collocation facilities, we could be forced to alter our service delivery which could reduce our customer base. As the FCC modifies and implements rules related to unbundling of ILEC network elements and collocation of competitive facilities at ILEC central offices, we generally have to renegotiate our interconnection agreements to implement those new or modified rules. If interest rates increase, our net income could be negatively affected. Our long-term debt exposes us to adverse changes in interest rates. We cannot predict whether interest rates for long-term debt will increase, and thus we cannot assure you that our future interest expense will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We did enter into interest rate swap contracts on 50% of the credit facility through 2015 in order to mitigate this exposure. Any significant impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets would lead to a decrease in our assets and a reduction in net operating performance. As of December 31, 2013, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $125.4 million (approximately 21% of total assets). If the impact or the timing of ongoing regulatory reform actions is significantly different than what we anticipate or if there are other regulatory or operating changes to our business, we may be forced to record an additional impairment charge, which would lead to a decrease in the company’s assets and reduction in net income. We test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record an impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset and the implied fair value of the asset in the period in which the determination is made. The testing of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in underlying business operations, future reporting unit operating performance, existing or new product market acceptance, changes in competition or changes in technologies. Any changes in key assumptions, or actual performance compared with those assumptions, about our business and our future prospects or other assumptions could affect the fair value of one or more of the indefinite-lived intangible assets or of the reporting units, resulting in an additional impairment charge. Security breaches to our physical facilities, computer networks, and informational databases, and unauthorized use of, or interference with, our network could disrupt services and result in loss of customer data and customers, and increase our costs. The nature of our business necessitates that parts of our network remain in the public domain and as a result it is possible that unauthorized use, interference with, or malicious or unintentional disruptions of our network may occur. In addition, computer viruses, theft, attacks by hackers, or similar disruptive problems may occur. If hackers gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential personal information concerning our subscribers. 14 Table of Contents In addition, misuse of our customer information could result in more substantial harm perpetrated by third parties. This could damage our business and reputation, and result in a loss of customers. Misuse of our customer information would also subject us to fines by the FCC. We may incur costs associated with the unauthorized use of our network including administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of malice and fraud. Malicious and fraudulent use of our network may impact interconnection costs, capacity costs, legal and administrative costs, fraud prevention costs and payments to other carriers for fraudulent use. Our physical facilities may be vulnerable to physical break-ins which may also result in the misuse of our customer information, malicious and fraudulent use of our networks that may impact interconnection costs, capacity costs, legal and administrative costs, fraud prevention costs and payments to other carriers for fraudulent use. If or when we lose a member or members of our senior management, our business may be adversely affected. The success of our business is largely dependent on our senior management team, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel, including talented sales and technical personnel. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for qualified personnel in the telecommunications industry, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. The unexpected loss of key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Common Stock: The Quadrangle entities have significant influence over our business and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control, change in management or business combination that may not be beneficial to our stockholders and as a result, may depress the market price of our common stock. Pursuant to our shareholders agreement with Quadrangle, we agreed to register shares of our common stock held by the Quadrangle entities. Upon a request from Quadrangle to comply with these registration obligations, we prepared and filed a registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC on August 26, 2013 utilizing a shelf registration process. Under this shelf registration process, Quadrangle may offer and sell in one or more offerings, up to an aggregate of 5,680,837 shares of our common stock. On November 20, 2013, in a secondary offering of our common stock, Quadrangle sold 2,888,939 shares. As of December 31, 2013, Quadrangle beneficially owned 2,791,898 shares, or approximately 13%, of our outstanding common stock, all of which could be offered for sale in the future under the existing shelf registration. In addition, two of the eight directors that serve on our board of directors are representatives or designees of Quadrangle. Pursuant to the terms of our shareholders agreement, with stock ownership below 20% of the voting power of our common stock, Quadrangle currently has the right to designate two directors, who do not need to be independent as defined by the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market. If Quadrangle’s ownership falls below 10% they may designate only one director and no directors if their ownership falls below 5%. The shareholders agreement also provides that one director will be our Chief Executive Officer for so long as he or she is employed by us. By virtue of the shareholders agreement and such stock ownership and representation on the board of directors, Quadrangle has a significant influence over day-to-day corporate and management policies and all matters submitted to our stockholders, including the election of the directors, and can exercise significant control over our business, policies and affairs. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, change in management or a business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders and as a result, may depress the market price of our common stock. The interests of the Quadrangle entities may not coincide with the interests of a holder of our common stock and because the Quadrangle entities have significant influence over our business, they could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements adverse to the interests of our other stockholders. The interests of the Quadrangle entities may not always coincide with the interests of our other stockholders. Accordingly, because the Quadrangle entities have significant influence over our business, they could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements adverse to the interests of our other stockholders. In addition, the Quadrangle entities are in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. The Quadrangle entities may also pursue, for their own account, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Additionally, we have specifically renounced in the shareholders agreement any interest or expectancy that the Quadrangle entities will offer to us any investment or business opportunity of which they are aware. 15 Table of Contents The shares of our common stock owned by the Quadrangle entities are not freely tradable on The NASDAQ Global Market, and a sale of the shares of our common stock by Quadrangle would increase the number of shares of our common stock eligible to be freely traded on The NASDAQ Global Market, which could depress the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2013, Quadrangle beneficially owned 2,791,898 shares, or approximately 13%, of our outstanding common stock, all of which could be offered for sale in the future under the existing shelf registration. The remainder of our shares of issued and outstanding common stock are freely tradable on The NASDAQ Global Market without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), unless such shares constitute “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act or are purchased by our “affiliates” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The shares of common stock subject to the shelf registration were not freely tradable on The NASDAQ Global Market and the sale of Quadrangles remaining shares would increase the number of shares of our common stock eligible to be freely traded on The NASDAQ Global Market, which could depress the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and the General Corporation Law of Delaware could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could limit the price certain investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Certain provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, the state in which we are organized, and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may inhibit a change of control not approved by our board of directors or changes in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in the entrenchment of current management. These provisions include: · advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; · limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our bylaws; · limitations on the removal of directors; · the inability of the stockholders to act by written consent; and · the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and additional shares of our common stock. A portion of our current investor base may be required to sell our common stock. A portion of our common stock is held by index funds tied to broad stock indices in which we are included as a component. If at any time we are not included as a component in those indices, the corresponding index funds will likely be required to sell their shares of our common stock and the price of our common stock could be depressed by those sales. We may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock in the future. We intend to pay regular quarterly dividends on our common stock. However, any decision to declare future dividends will be made at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, investment opportunities, financial condition, contractual restrictions, and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. We are a holding company that does not operate any business of our own. As a result, we are dependent on cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries to make dividend payments to our stockholders. Amounts that can be made available to us to pay cash dividends or repurchase stock are permitted by our credit agreement within the parameters of a restricted payment basket. Our certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with the Company. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Our certificate of incorporation further provides that any person or entity purchasing or acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions described above. This forum selection provision in our certificate of incorporation may limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with the Company. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Separation from NTELOS: If the Distribution does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, tax could be imposed on NTELOS and we may be required to indemnify NTELOS for such tax. If the Distribution were not to be tax-free to NTELOS, NTELOS would be required to recognize gain in an amount up to the fair market value of our common stock that NTELOS distributed on the distribution date. Furthermore, events subsequent to the Distribution could cause NTELOS to recognize gain on the Distribution. For example, under Code Section 355(e), even minimal acquisitions of either our equity securities or NTELOS’s equity securities that are deemed to be part of a plan or a series of related transactions that include the Distribution could cause NTELOS to recognize gain on the Distribution. Under the tax matters agreement entered into between NTELOS and us, we are generally required to indemnify NTELOS against any tax resulting from the Distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from any of the following events (among others): (1) an acquisition of all or a portion of our stock or assets, whether by merger or otherwise, (2) any negotiations, understandings, agreements or arrangements with respect to transactions or events that cause the Distribution to be treated as part of a plan pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, stock representing a 50% or greater interest in Lumos Networks, (3) certain other actions or failures to act by us, or (4) any breach by us of certain of our representations or undertakings. Our indemnification obligations to NTELOS and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. We have agreed to certain restrictions to preserve the tax-free treatment of the Distribution to NTELOS, which may reduce our strategic and operating flexibility. To preserve the tax-free treatment to NTELOS of the Distribution, under the tax matters agreement that we entered into with NTELOS, we are prohibited from taking or failing to take any action that prevents the Distribution and related transactions from being tax-free. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. Certain of our officers and directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their cross directorships and stock ownership with NTELOS. We continue to have overlap in directors with NTELOS, which may lead to conflicting interests. James A. Hyde, the Chief Executive Officer and President of NTELOS, is serving on our board of directors and our CEO is serving on NTELOS’s board of directors. Our board of directors also includes representatives of Quadrangle who are members of the board of directors of NTELOS. Mr. Hyde and the members of our board of directors who overlap with NTELOS have fiduciary duties to both NTELOS’s and our stockholders. These individuals may have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting each company. NTELOS continues to be a significant customer of the Company and therefore potential conflicts of interest could exist or arise in the future. This arrangement may also subject us to regulation under state and federal affiliated interest’s regulatory requirements. Also, because of their current or former positions with NTELOS, certain of our directors and executive officers may continue to own shares of NTELOS common stock and the individual holdings may be significant for some of these individuals compared to their total assets. Given our commercial arrangements with NTELOS, this ownership may create, or, may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these executive directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for NTELOS and the Company. In connection with our separation from NTELOS, NTELOS will indemnify us for certain liabilities and we will indemnify NTELOS for certain liabilities. If we are required to indemnify NTELOS, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial position could be negatively impacted. In the case of NTELOS’s indemnity, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or as to NTELOS’s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and certain other agreements with NTELOS, NTELOS agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify NTELOS for certain liabilities, in each case for uncapped amounts. Indemnities that we may be required to provide NTELOS are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the Distribution. Third-parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that NTELOS has agreed to retain. Further, there can be no assurance that the indemnity from NTELOS will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that NTELOS will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from NTELOS any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 