Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following discussion sets forth some of the most important risk factors that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. However, factors besides those discussed below, in MD&A or elsewhere in this or other reports that we filed or furnished with the SEC, also could adversely affect us. Readers should not consider any descriptions of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect us. Each of these factors could by itself, or together with one or more other factors, materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. We are subject to other general risks that are not specifically enumerated which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. The following risk factors are not necessarily listed in order of importance.Business and Industry Risks We service higher risk loans, which are more expensive to service than conventional mortgage loans. A large percentage of the mortgage loans we service are higher risk loans, meaning that the loans are to less credit worthy borrowers or for properties the value of which has decreased. These loans are more expensive to service because they require more frequent interaction with customers and greater monitoring and oversight. Additionally, in connection with the ongoing mortgage market reform and regulatory developments, servicers of higher risk loans may be subject to increased scrutiny by state and federal regulators or may experience higher compliance costs, which could result in a further increase in servicing costs. We may not be able to pass along any of the additional expenses we incur in servicing higher risk loans to our servicing clients. The greater cost of servicing higher risk loans, which may be further increased through regulatory reform, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant change in delinquencies for the loans we service or originate could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Delinquency rates have a significant impact on our revenues, expenses and liquidity and on the valuation of our MSRs and our mortgage loans as follows: •Revenue. An increase in delinquencies will result in lower revenue for loans we service for GSEs because we only collect servicing fees from GSEs for performing loans. Additionally, while increased delinquencies generate higher ancillary fees, including late fees, these fees are not likely to be recoverable in the event that the related loan is liquidated. In addition, an increase in delinquencies lowers the interest income we receive on cash held in collection and other accounts.•Expenses. An increase in delinquencies will result in a higher cost to service due to the increased time and effort required to collect payments from delinquent borrowers. It may also result in an increase in interest expense as a result of an increase in our advancing obligations. The cost of servicing an increasingly delinquent mortgage loan portfolio may thus rise without a corresponding increase in revenue.•Liquidity. An increase in delinquencies could also negatively impact our liquidity because of an increase in borrowing under our advance facilities, if we cannot recover the advances we are required to make from delinquent borrowers.•Valuation of MSRs. We base the price we pay for MSRs on, among other things, our projections of the cash flows from the related pool of mortgage loans. Our expectation of delinquencies is a significant assumption underlying those cash flow projections. If delinquencies were significantly greater than expected, the estimated fair value of our MSRs could be diminished. If the estimated fair value of MSRs is reduced, we could suffer a loss, which has a negative impact on our financial results.•Valuation of mortgage loans. Higher delinquencies reduce the value of mortgage loans. An increase in delinquencies in any of the mortgage loans that we originate may require us to sell these loans at a greater discount to par, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. An increase in delinquency rates could therefore adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, a large percentage of the mortgage loans we service are higher risk loans, which tend to have higher delinquency and default rates. Private-label mortgage loans may be at a greater risk of such delinquency than GSE and government agency-insured mortgage loans. Therefore, as we increase the percentage of private-label mortgages in our servicing portfolio as measured by UPB, our servicing portfolio may become increasingly delinquent, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations15Table of ContentsAdditional increases in interest rates in the residential mortgage market may decrease our originations volume, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Overall originations volumes are down significantly in the current economic environment. According to Inside Mortgage Finance, total U.S. residential mortgage originations volume decreased from $3.0 trillion in 2006 to $1.9 trillion in 2013. We may be unable to continue to grow our loan originations volume as a result of this declining market for mortgage loans. More specifically, our loan originations business consists primarily of refinancing existing loans. An increase in prevailing interest rates could decrease our originations volume through our Consumer Direct Retail originations channel, our largest originations channel by volume because this channel focuses predominantly on refinancing existing mortgage loans. These factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to continue to grow our loan originations business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our loan originations business consists primarily of refinancing existing loans. While we intend to use sales lead aggregators, television and Internet marketing to reach new borrowers, our Consumer Direct Retail originations platform may not succeed because of the referral-driven nature of our industry. Further, our largest customer base consists of borrowers whose existing loans we service. Because we service a large amount of credit-sensitive loans, many of our existing servicing customers may not be able to qualify for conventional mortgage loans with us or may pose a higher credit risk than other consumers. Furthermore, our Consumer Direct Retail originations platform focuses predominantly on refinancing existing mortgage loans. This type of originations activity is sensitive to increases in interest rates. Our loan originations business also consists of providing purchase money loans to homebuyers. The origination of purchase money mortgage loans is greatly influenced by traditional business clients in the home buying process such as realtors and builders. As a result, our ability to secure relationships with such traditional business clients will influence our ability to grow our purchase money mortgage loan volume and, thus, our loan originations business. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and our inability to compete successfully could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of economic, legislative, regulatory and technological changes. In the servicing industry, we face competition in areas such as fees and performance in reducing delinquencies and entering successful modifications. Competition to service mortgage loans comes primarily from large commercial banks and savings institutions. These financial institutions generally have significantly greater resources and access to capital than we do, which gives them the benefit of a lower cost of funds. Additionally, our servicing competitors may decide to modify their servicing model to compete more directly with our servicing model, or our servicing model may generate lower margins as a result of competition or as overall economic conditions improve. In the mortgage loan originations industry, we face competition in such areas as mortgage loan offerings, rates, fees and customer service. Competition to originate mortgage loans comes primarily from large commercial banks and savings institutions. These financial institutions generally have significantly greater resources and access to capital than we do, which gives them the benefit of a lower cost of funds. In addition, technological advances and heightened e-commerce activities have increased consumers’ access to products and services. This has intensified competition among banks and non-banks in offering mortgage loans and loan servicing. We may be unable to compete successfully in our industries and this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain or grow our business if we cannot identify and acquire MSRs or enter into additional subservicing agreements on favorable terms. Our servicing portfolio is subject to “run off,” meaning that mortgage loans serviced by us may be prepaid prior to maturity, refinanced with a mortgage not serviced by us or liquidated through foreclosure, deed-in-lieu of foreclosure or other liquidation process or repaid through standard amortization of principal. As a result, our ability to maintain the size of our servicing portfolio depends on our ability to originate additional mortgages or to acquire the right to service additional pools of residential mortgages. We may not be able to acquire MSRs or enter into additional subservicing agreements on terms favorable to us or at all, or our attempts to acquire MSRs or enter into subservicing agreements may be blocked by regulators or courts, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In determining the purchase price for MSRs and subservicing agreements, management makes certain assumptions, many of which are beyond our control, including, among other things: •the rates of prepayment and repayment within the underlying pools of mortgage loans;16Table of Contents•projected rates of delinquencies, defaults and liquidations; •future interest rates;•our cost to service the loans;•ancillary fee income; and•amounts of future servicing advances.We are required to make servicing advances that can be subject to delays in recovery or may not be recoverable in certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations. During any period in which a borrower is not making payments, we are required under most of our servicing agreements to advance our own funds to meet contractual principal and interest remittance requirements for investors, pay property taxes and insurance premiums, legal expenses and other protective advances. We also advance funds to maintain, repair and market real estate properties on behalf of investors. As home values change, we may have to reconsider certain of the assumptions underlying our decisions to make advances and, in certain situations, our contractual obligations may require us to make certain advances for which we may not be reimbursed. In addition, in the event a mortgage loan serviced by us defaults or becomes delinquent, the repayment to us of the advance may be delayed until the mortgage loan is repaid or refinanced or a liquidation occurs. As a reverse mortgage servicer, we will also be responsible for funding any payments due to borrowers in a timely manner, remitting to investors interest accrued and paying for interest shortfalls. Advances on reverse mortgages are typically greater than advances on forward residential mortgages. They are typically recovered upon weekly or monthly reimbursement or from sale in the market. In the event we receive requests for advances in excess of amounts we are able to fund, we may not be able to fund these advance requests, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations. A delay in our ability to collect an advance may adversely affect our liquidity, and our inability to be reimbursed for an advance could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have sold to New Residential and certain third-party investors rights to mortgage servicing rights and servicer advances related to certain loan pools. In connection with the transaction, New Residential purchased the equity of wholly-owned special purpose subsidiaries of Nationstar that issued limited recourse variable funding to finance the advances. We continue to service these loans. In the event that New Residential receives requests for advances in excess of amounts that New Residential or its co-investors are willing or able to fund, we are obligated to fund these advance requests. Since we have transferred the related advance facilities to New Residential, we may have to obtain other sources of financing which may not be available. Our inability to fund these advances could result in a termination event under the applicable servicing agreement, an event of default under the advance facilities and a breach of our purchase agreement with New Residential. Our inability to fund these advance requests could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We use financial models and estimates in determining the fair value of certain assets, such as MSRs. If our estimates or assumptions prove to be incorrect, we may be required to record impairment charges, which could adversely affect our earnings. We use internal financial models that utilize, wherever possible, market participant data to value certain of our assets, including our MSRs, newly originated loans held for sale and investments in debt securities for purposes of financial reporting. These models are complex and use asset-specific collateral data and market inputs for interest and discount rates. In addition, the modeling requirements of MSRs are complex because of the high number of variables that drive cash flows associated with MSRs. Even if the general accuracy of our valuation models is validated, valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships that drive the results of the models. If loan loss levels are higher than anticipated, due to an increase in delinquencies or prepayment speeds, or financial market illiquidity continues beyond our estimate, the value of certain of our assets may decrease. We may be required to record impairment charges, which could impact our ability to satisfy minimum net worth covenants and borrowing conditions in our debt agreements and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Errors in our financial models or changes in assumptions could adversely affect our earnings. See “We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of previous or potential future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.” Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates. From time to time, we have used various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely. The derivative financial instruments that we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risks. In addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. Poorly designed strategies, improperly executed and documented transactions or inaccurate assumptions could actually increase our risks and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. Our hedging strategies and the derivatives that we use may not be able to adequately offset the risks of interest rate volatility and our hedging transactions may result in or magnify losses. Furthermore, interest rate derivatives may not be available on 17Table of Contentsfavorable terms or at all, particularly during economic downturns. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may be unable to obtain sufficient capital to meet the financing requirements of our business. Our financing strategy includes the use of significant leverage because in order to make servicing advances and fund originations, we require liquidity in excess of that generated by our operations. Accordingly, our ability to finance our operations and repay maturing obligations rests in large part on our ability to borrow money. We are generally required to renew our financing arrangements each year, which exposes us to refinancing and interest rate risks. See “Note 14-Indebtedness.” Our ability to refinance existing debt and borrow additional funds is affected by a variety of factors including: •limitations imposed on us under the indentures governing our unsecured senior notes and other financing agreements that contain restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions that may limit our ability to raise additional debt;•the decrease in liquidity in the credit markets;•prevailing interest rates;•the strength of the lenders from which we borrow;•limitations on borrowings on advance facilities imposed by the amount of eligible collateral pledged, which may be less than the borrowing capacity of the advance facility; and•accounting changes that may impact calculations of covenants in our debt agreements. In the ordinary course of our business, we periodically borrow money or sell newly-originated loans to fund our servicing and originations operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our ability to fund current operations and meet our servicing advance obligations depends on our ability to secure these types of financings on acceptable terms and to renew or replace existing financings as they expire. We rely on our originations and servicing advance facilities for substantially all of the liquidity we require to fund the mortgage loans that we originate and the servicing advances we are required to make. We may elect to fund these liquidity needs from cash flows available to us. To the extent we do not have sufficient cash available to meet these liquidity needs we will continue to draw on originations and servicing advance facilities. Such financings may not be available with the GSEs or other counterparties on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain such financings, we may need to raise the funds we require in the capital markets or through other means, any of which may increase our cost of funds. An event of default, a negative ratings action by a rating agency, an adverse action by a regulatory authority or a general deterioration in the economy that constricts the availability of credit - similar to the market conditions that we have experienced during the last several years - may increase our cost of funds and make it difficult for us to renew existing credit facilities or obtain new lines of credit. We intend to continue to seek opportunities to acquire loan servicing portfolios and/or businesses that engage in loan servicing and/or loan originations. Our liquidity and capital resources may be diminished by any such transactions. Additionally, we believe that a significant acquisition may require us to raise additional capital to facilitate such a transaction, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We historically have relied on selling or securitizing our mortgage loans into the secondary market in order to generate liquidity to fund maturities of our indebtedness, the origination and warehousing of mortgage loans, the retention of mortgage servicing rights and for general working capital purposes. We bear the risk of being unable to sell or securitize our mortgage loans at advantageous times and prices or in a timely manner. Demand in the secondary market and our ability to complete the sale or securitization of our mortgage loans depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, general conditions in the banking system, the willingness of lenders to provide funding for mortgage loans, the willingness of investors to purchase mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and changes in regulatory requirements. If it is not possible or economical for us to complete the sale or securitization of certain of our mortgage loans held for sale, we may lack liquidity under our mortgage financing facilities to continue to fund such mortgage loans and our revenues and margins on new loan originations would be materially and negatively impacted, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.In July 2013, the U.S. bank regulatory agencies finalized rules implementing international accords on strengthening capital requirements, known as Basel III. The final U.S. capital rules are intended to increase both the quantity and quality of capital held by U.S. banking institutions against their assets, and these increased requirements will be phased in over the next few years, starting in 2014 for the largest institutions. In addition, the final U.S. capital rules also contain provisions that raise capital charges against certain real estate exposures, mortgage servicing rights and securitizations. Also, in July 2013, the U.S. bank regulatory agencies proposed (but have not yet finalized) rules for the largest 8 U.S. banking organizations that would, if adopted, further increase the capital requirements (through an increase in certain minimum leverage ratios) for these organizations. Furthermore, the U.S. bank regulatory agencies also proposed, in October 2013, (but have not yet finalized) liquidity rules for U.S. banking organizations, that would require the maintenance of certain high quality liquid assets against 18Table of Contentsnet stressed liquidity outflow estimates of the banking organization, including with regard to revolving credit lines provided to customers. Although we cannot quantify the impact of these rules at this time, it is expected that these rules will increase the cost of funding for banking institutions that we rely on for financing. Such Basel III requirements on banking institutions could reduce our sources of funding and increase the costs of originating and servicing mortgage loans. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms for any of the foregoing reasons, this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness may limit our financial and operating activities and our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs.As of December 31, 2013, we and our guarantors for our unsecured senior notes had approximately $2.4 billion of total indebtedness and unfunded availability of approximately $4.1 billion under our various financing facilities. Our substantial indebtedness and any future indebtedness we incur could:•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, including indebtedness we may incur in the future, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes;•make it more difficult for us to satisfy and comply with our obligations with respect to the unsecured senior notes;•subject us to increased sensitivity to increases in prevailing interest rates;•place us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with relatively less debt in economic downturns, adverse industry conditions or catastrophic external events; or•reduce our flexibility in planning for or responding to changing business, industry and economic conditions.In addition, our substantial level of indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all to fund future acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, general corporate and other purposes, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our liquidity needs could vary significantly and may be affected by general economic conditions, industry trends, performance and many other factors outside of our control. Our substantial obligations could have other important consequences. For example, our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness, which limit our ability to incur liens, to incur debt and to sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could harm our business or prospects and could result in our bankruptcy.We may incur more debt, which could limit our financial and operating activities. We and our subsidiaries are able to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the limitations contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness. Although these agreements generally restrict us and our restricted subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to important exceptions and qualifications. If we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the related risks could be magnified and could limit our financial and operating activities. Our counterparties may terminate our servicing rights and subservicing contracts, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The owners of the loans we service and the primary servicers of the loans we subservice, may, under certain circumstances, terminate our MSRs or subservicing contracts, respectively. As is standard in the industry, under the terms of our master servicing agreements with GSEs, GSEs have the right to terminate us as servicer of the loans we service on their behalf at any time and also have the right to cause us to sell the MSRs to a third party. These agreements also require that we service in accordance with GSE servicing guidelines. Failure to comply with servicing standards and to maintain certain tangible net worth levels could result in termination of our agreements with GSEs. Because we are required to follow the guidelines of the GSEs with which we do business and are not able to negotiate our fees with these entities for the purchase of our loans, our competitors may be able to sell their loans on more favorable terms. Some GSEs may also have the right to require us to assign the MSRs to a subsidiary and sell our equity interest in the subsidiary to a third party. Under our subservicing contracts, the primary servicers for which we conduct subservicing activities have the right to terminate our subservicing rights with or without cause, with little notice and little to no compensation. We expect to continue to acquire subservicing rights, which could exacerbate these risks. If we were to have our servicing or subservicing rights terminated on a material portion of our servicing portfolio, this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of previous or potential future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19Table of ContentsOur ability to realize the anticipated benefits of previous or potential future acquisitions of servicing portfolios, originations platforms or companies will depend, in part, on our ability to scale-up to appropriately service any such assets, and integrate the businesses of such acquired companies with our business. The process of acquiring assets or companies may disrupt our business and may not result in the full benefits expected. The risks associated with acquisitions include, among others: •unknown or contingent liabilities;•unanticipated issues in integrating information, servicing practices, communications and other systems;•unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing and administration methods;•not retaining key employees; and•the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns.In the event that we acquire a servicing or originations platform, we may elect to operate this platform in addition to our current platform for a period of time or indefinitely. Individually or collectively, these transactions could substantially increase the UPB, or alter the composition of our portfolio, of mortgage loans that we service or have an otherwise significant impact on our business. We can provide no assurances that we will enter into any such agreements or as to the timing of any potential acquisitions. Additionally, we may make or have made potentially significant acquisitions which could expose us to greater risks than we currently experience in servicing our current portfolio and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of potential future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any future acquisitions could require substantial additional capital in excess of cash from operations. Therefore, we may fund acquisitions with a combination of excess MSR co-investments, nonrecourse securitization debt, warehouse financing, servicer advance facilities or sales, additional corporate indebtedness or equity financing. Where we can obtain such financing on attractive terms, we typically attempt to finance our acquisitions on a nonrecourse basis. In addition, we could enter into such acquisition arrangements on a standalone basis or on a co-investment or other basis with one or more of our affiliates. We can provide no assurances, however, as to the availability or terms of funding for future acquisitions or our ability to enter into such arrangements with our affiliates. If we fail to obtain adequate financing or otherwise enter into satisfactory arrangements with our affiliates, we could be exposed to significant risks, including risks that we may not be able to complete the acquisition on alternative terms or at all and risks that we may have to pay damages. Moreover, the success of any acquisition will depend upon our ability to effectively integrate the acquired servicing portfolios, originations platforms or businesses. The acquired servicing portfolios, originations platforms or businesses may not contribute to our revenues or earnings to any material extent, and cost savings and synergies we expect at the time of an acquisition may not be realized once the acquisition has been completed. If we inappropriately value the assets we acquire or the value of the assets we acquire declines after we acquire them, the resulting charges may negatively affect the carrying value of the assets on our balance sheet and our earnings. See “We use financial models and estimates in determining the fair value of certain assets, such as MSRs and investments in debt securities. If our estimates or assumptions prove to be incorrect, we may be required to record impairment charges, which could adversely affect our earnings.” Furthermore, if we incur additional indebtedness to finance an acquisition, the acquired business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service that additional indebtedness. Unsuitable or unsuccessful acquisitions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to indemnify or repurchase loans we sold, or will sell, if these loans fail to meet certain criteria or characteristics or under other circumstances. The indentures governing our securitized pools of loans and our contracts with purchasers of our whole loans contain provisions that require us to indemnify or repurchase the related loans under certain circumstances. While our contracts vary, they contain provisions that require us to repurchase loans if: •our representations and warranties concerning loan quality and loan circumstances are inaccurate, including representations concerning the licensing of a mortgage broker;•we fail to secure adequate mortgage insurance within a certain period after closing;•a mortgage insurance provider denies coverage;•we fail to comply, at the individual loan level or otherwise, with regulatory requirements in the current dynamic regulatory environment; or•the borrower fails to make certain initial loan payments due to the purchaser. We believe that, as a result of the current market environment, many purchasers of residential mortgage loans are particularly aware of the conditions under which originators must indemnify or repurchase loans and would benefit from enforcing any 20Table of Contentsrepurchase remedies they may have. Along with others in the industry, we are subject to repurchase claims and may continue to receive claims in the future. We believe that our exposure to repurchases under our representations and warranties includes the current unpaid balance of all loans we have sold. Between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2013, we sold an aggregate of $36.8 billion of loans. To recognize the potential loan repurchase or indemnification losses, we have recorded a reserve of $40.7 million as of December 31, 2013. In 2013, we were not required to repurchase a significant number of mortgages that had been previously sold, and we incurred losses of $10.9 million related to such repurchase activity. Because of the increase in our loan originations since 2008, we expect that repurchase requests are likely to increase. Should home values decrease, our realized loan losses from loan repurchases and indemnifications may increase as well. As such, our reserve for repurchases may increase beyond our current expectations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Analysis of Items on Consolidated Balance Sheet-Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity.” If we are required to indemnify or repurchase loans that we originate and sell or securitize that result in losses that exceed our reserve, this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes to government mortgage modification programs could adversely affect future incremental revenues. Under the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP), the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP), and similar government programs, a participating servicer may be entitled to receive financial incentives in connection with any modification plans it enters into with eligible borrowers and subsequent success fees to the extent that a borrower remains current in any agreed upon loan modification.We participate in and dedicate numerous resources to HARP and HAMP. In 2013, 47% of our total originations were HARP loans. Changes in legislation or regulation regarding HARP, HAMP or any other government mortgage modification program or changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing mortgage loans may impact the extent to which we participate in and receive financial benefits from such programs, or may increase our operating costs and the expense of our participation in such programs. On October 24, 2011, the FHFA announced changes to HARP for certain loans sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac prior to May 31, 2009. The changes to HARP are designed to increase the number of mortgage loans eligible for refinancing under the program and have meaningfully increased industry-wide loan production volumes. These changes and any additional changes that may be enacted to increase refinancing eligibility under this program will likely increase mortgage loan prepayment speeds, which would have an unfavorable impact on the valuation of our MSRs. HARP and HAMP are currently scheduled to expire on December 31, 2015. If HARP or HAMP is not extended, this could decrease our revenues, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the Making Home Affordable plan, or MHA, a participating servicer may receive a financial incentive to modify qualifying loans, in accordance with the plan’s guidelines and requirements. HARP also allows us to refinance loans with an LTV of up to 125%. This program, and the FHA’s negative equity refinance program, allow us to refinance loans to existing borrowers who have little or negative equity in their homes. The FHA’s negative equity refinance program is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2014, and the expiration of that program or changes in legislation or regulations regarding that program or the MHA could reduce our volume of refinancing originations to borrowers with little or negative equity in their homes. Changes to HAMP, HARP, the MHA and other similar programs could adversely affect our future incremental revenues.Our earnings may decrease because of changes in prevailing interest rates. Our profitability is directly affected by changes in prevailing interest rates. The following are certain material risks we face related to changes in prevailing interest rates: •an increase in prevailing interest rates could generate an increase in delinquency, default and foreclosure rates resulting in an increase in both operating expenses and interest expense and could cause a reduction in the value of our assets; •an increase in prevailing interest rates could adversely affect our loan originations volume because refinancing an existing loan would be less attractive for homeowners and qualifying for a loan may be more difficult for consumers;•an increase in prevailing interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our outstanding debt, including our ability to finance servicing advances and loan originations;•a decrease in prevailing interest rates may increase prepayment speeds causing our servicing fees to decline more rapidly than anticipated and we may record a decrease in the value of our MSRs;•a decrease in prevailing interest rates may lead to higher compensating interest expense and increased amortization expense as we revise downward our estimate of total expected income as prepayment speeds increase; and•a decrease in prevailing interest rates could reduce our earnings from our custodial deposit accounts.21Table of ContentsWe depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about borrowers and counterparties and any misrepresented information could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In deciding whether to extend credit or to enter into other transactions with borrowers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of borrowers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of borrowers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. We additionally rely on representations from public officials concerning the licensing and good standing of the third-party mortgage brokers through which we do business. While we have a practice of independently verifying the borrower information that we use in deciding whether to extend credit or to agree to a loan modification, including employment, assets, income and credit score, if any of this information is misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than expected. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. We have controls and processes designed to help us identify misrepresented information in our loan originations operations. We, however, may not have detected or may not detect all misrepresented information in our loan originations or from our business clients. Any such misrepresented information could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We service reverse mortgages, which subjects us to additional risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, our reverse mortgage servicing portfolio amounted to $28.9 billion in UPB, representing 7.4% of our total servicing portfolio. The reverse mortgage business is subject to substantial risks, including market, credit, interest rate, liquidity, operational, reputational and legal risks. A reverse mortgage is a loan available to seniors aged 62 or older that allows homeowners to borrow money against the value of their home. No repayment of the mortgage is required until the borrower dies or the home is sold. A deterioration of the market for reverse mortgages may reduce the number of reverse mortgages we service, reduce the profitability of reverse mortgages currently serviced by us and adversely affect our ability to sell reverse mortgages in the market. Although foreclosures involving reverse mortgages generally occur less frequently than forward mortgages, loan defaults on reverse mortgages leading to foreclosures may occur if borrowers fail to meet maintenance obligations, such as payment of taxes or home insurance premiums. An increase in foreclosure rates may increase our cost of servicing. As a reverse mortgage servicer, we will also be responsible for funding any payments due to borrowers in a timely manner, remitting to investors interest accrued, and paying for interest shortfalls. Advances on reverse mortgages are typically greater than advances on forward residential mortgages. They are typically recovered upon weekly or monthly reimbursement or from sale in the market. In the event we receive requests for advances in excess of amounts we are able to fund, we may not be able to fund these advance requests, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity. As of December 31, 2013, our reverse mortgage servicing advance facility had an outstanding balance of $102.0 million and the capacity to borrow a total of up to $150.0 million. Finally, we are subject to negative headline risk in the event that loan defaults on reverse mortgages lead to foreclosures or even evictions of elderly homeowners. All of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans or loan modifications that will be adjusting in 2014 are especially exposed to increases in monthly payments and they may not be able to refinance their loans, which could cause delinquency, default and foreclosure and therefore adversely affect our business.Borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans are exposed to increased monthly payments when the related mortgage loan’s interest rate adjusts upward from an initial fixed rate or a low introductory rate, as applicable, to the rate computed in accordance with the applicable index and margin. Interest rates for residential mortgage loans have been at historical lows, and it is widely anticipated that these interest rates will increase in the United States due to changes announced by the Federal Reserve. Borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans seeking to refinance their mortgage loans to avoid increased monthly payments as a result of an upward adjustment of the mortgage loan’s interest rate may no longer be able to find available replacement loans at comparably low interest rates. This increase in borrowers’ monthly payments, together with any increase in prevailing market interest rates, may result in significantly increased monthly payments for borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans, which may cause delinquency, default and foreclosure. Increased mortgage defaults and foreclosures may adversely affect our business as they reduce the number of mortgages we service. As of December 31, 2013, we serviced or held adjustable rate mortgage loans with a total UPB of approximately $101.0 billion on our outstanding forward residential mortgage loans and the average interest rate of our portfolio of adjustable rate mortgage loans was 4.92%. Because of the continuing low interest rate environment, a significant portion of our adjustable rate mortgage loans subject to adjustment during 2013 did not experience a rate increase. Likewise, loan modifications entered into in 2008 may have provisions providing for an increase in the interest rate by 1% in 2014 and 1% per year thereafter until an interest rate cap is reached. Some borrowers on loan modifications may re-default again due to the increased monthly payment of principal and interest, which could lead to higher servicing costs for these defaulted loans. 22Table of ContentsThe geographic concentration of our servicing portfolio may result in a higher rate of delinquencies, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 26.6% and 8.8% of the aggregate outstanding loan balance in our forward servicing portfolio was secured by properties located in California and Florida, respectively. These states and others have experienced severe declines in property values and are experiencing a disproportionately high rate of delinquencies and foreclosures relative to other states. To the extent these states continue to experience weaker economic conditions or greater rates of decline in real estate values than the United States generally, the concentration of loans we service in those regions may increase the effect of the risks listed in this “Risk Factors” section. The impact of property value declines may increase in magnitude and it may continue for a long period of time. Additionally, if states in which we have greater concentrations of business were to change their licensing or other regulatory requirements to make our business cost-prohibitive, we may be required to stop doing business in those states or may be subject to higher cost of doing business in those states, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors may be able to sell their loans to GSEs on more favorable terms, and since we are required to follow the guidelines of the GSEs we are not able to negotiate our servicing fees.Even though we currently originate conventional agency and government conforming loans, because we previously originated non-prime mortgage loans, we believe we are required to pay a higher fee to access the secondary market for selling our loans to GSEs. We believe that because many of our competitors have always originated conventional loans, they are able to sell newly originated loans on more favorable terms than us. As a result, these competitors are able to earn higher margins than we earn on originated loans, which could materially impact our business. In our transactions with the GSEs, we are required to follow specific guidelines that impact the way we service and originate mortgage loans including: •our staffing levels and other servicing practices;•the servicing and ancillary fees that we may charge;•our modification standards and procedures; and•the amount of non-reimbursable advances. In particular, the FHFA has directed GSEs to align their guidelines for servicing delinquent mortgages they own or guarantee, which can result in monetary incentives for servicers that perform well and penalties for those that do not. In addition, FHFA has directed Fannie Mae to assess compensatory fees against servicers in connection with delinquent loans, foreclosure delays, and other breaches of servicing obligations. We cannot negotiate these terms with the GSEs and they are subject to change at any time. A significant change in these guidelines that has the effect of decreasing our fees or requires us to expend additional resources in providing mortgage services could decrease our revenues or increase our costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent upon programs administered by GSEs such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to generate revenues through mortgage loan sales to institutional investors. Any changes in existing U.S. government-sponsored mortgage programs could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial position and results of operations. In February 2011, the Obama Administration delivered a report to Congress regarding a proposal to reform the housing finance markets in the United States. The report, among other things, outlined various potential proposals to wind down the GSEs and reduce or eliminate over time the role of the GSEs in guaranteeing mortgages and providing funding for mortgage loans, as well as proposals to implement reforms relating to borrowers, lenders and investors in the mortgage market, including reducing the maximum size of loans that the GSEs can guarantee, phasing in a minimum down payment requirement for borrowers, improving underwriting standards and increasing accountability and transparency in the securitization process. Since the report of the Obama administration, there has been a bill introduced in the House of Representatives by the Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and in the Senate there are two competing bills coming out of the Senate Finance Committee all of which deal with GSE reform. Thus, the long-term future of the GSEs is still very much in doubt. Our ability to generate revenues through mortgage loan sales to institutional investors depends to a significant degree on programs administered by the GSEs, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae, and others that facilitate the issuance of MBS in the secondary market. These GSEs play a critical role in the residential mortgage industry and we have significant business relationships with many of them. Almost all of the conforming loans we originate qualify under existing standards for inclusion in guaranteed mortgage securities backed by GSEs. We also derive other material financial benefits from these relationships, including the assumption of credit risk by these GSEs on loans included in such mortgage securities in exchange 23Table of Contentsfor our payment of guarantee fees and the ability to avoid certain loan inventory finance costs through streamlined loan funding and sale procedures. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction in, the operation of these GSEs or any significant adverse change in the level of activity in the secondary mortgage market or the underwriting criteria of these GSEs could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial position and results of operations. The conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. federal government, could adversely affect our business and prospects. Due to increased market concerns about the ability of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to withstand future credit losses associated with securities held in their investment portfolios, and on which they provide guarantees without the direct support of the U.S. federal government, on July 30, 2008, the U.S. government passed the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008. On September 7, 2008, the FHFA placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship and, together with the U.S. Treasury, established a program designed to boost investor confidence in their respective debt and MBS. As the conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the FHFA controls and directs the operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and may (i) take over the assets and operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with all the powers of the stockholders, the directors and the officers of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and conduct all business of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; (ii) collect all obligations and money due to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; (iii) perform all functions of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac which are consistent with the conservator’s appointment; (iv) preserve and conserve the assets and property of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; and (v) contract for assistance in fulfilling any function, activity, action or duty of the conservator. In addition to the FHFA becoming the conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the U.S. Treasury and the FHFA have entered into preferred stock purchase agreements among the U.S. Treasury, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac pursuant to which the U.S. Treasury will ensure that each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac maintains a positive net worth. Although the U.S. Treasury has committed capital to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, these actions may not be adequate for their needs. If these actions are inadequate, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be considerably limited relative to historical measurements. Any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could redefine what constitute agency and government conforming MBS and could have broad adverse market implications. Such market implications could adversely affect our business and prospects. Technology failures could damage our business operations and increase our costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry as a whole is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, and system disruptions and failures caused by fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion, computer viruses and disabling devices, natural disasters and other similar events may interrupt or delay our ability to provide services to our borrowers. Security breaches, acts of vandalism and developments in computer capabilities could result in a compromise or breach of the technology that we use to protect our borrowers’ personal information and transaction data. Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate or implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties such as persons involved with organized crime or associated with external service providers. Those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. These risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase our reliance on the internet and use of web-based product offerings and on the use of cybersecurity. A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our systems or a defect in the integrity of our systems or cybersecurity could cause serious negative consequences for our business, including significant disruption of our operations, misappropriation of our confidential information or that of our customers, or damage to our computers or operating systems and to those of our customers and counterparties. Any of the foregoing events could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or to our customers, loss of confidence in our security measures, customer dissatisfaction, significant litigation exposure and harm to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success and growth of our business will depend upon our ability to adapt to and implement technological changes. Our mortgage loan originations business is currently dependent upon our ability to effectively interface with our brokers, borrowers and other third parties and to efficiently process loan applications and closings. The originations process is becoming 24Table of Contentsmore dependent upon technological advancement, such as our continued ability to process applications over the Internet, accept electronic signatures, provide process status updates instantly and other borrower-expected conveniences. Maintaining and improving this new technology and becoming proficient with it may also require significant capital expenditures. As these requirements increase in the future, we will have to fully develop these technological capabilities to remain competitive and any failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure of our internal security measures or breach of our privacy protections could cause harm to our reputation and subject us to liability, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the ordinary course of our business, we receive and store certain confidential information concerning borrowers. Additionally, we enter into third-party relationships to assist with various aspects of our business, some of which require the exchange of confidential borrower information. If a third party were to compromise or breach our security measures or those of the vendors, through electronic, physical or other means, and misappropriate such information, it could cause interruptions in our operations and expose us to significant liabilities, reporting obligations, remediation costs and damage to our reputation. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See also “-Technology failures could damage our business operations and increase our costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.” A downgrade in our servicer ratings could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch rate us as a residential loan servicer. Our current ratings from the rating agencies are important to the conduct of our loan servicing business. These ratings may be downgraded in the future which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our vendor relationships subject us to a variety of risks. We have significant vendors that, among other things, provide us with financial, technology and other services to support our servicing and originations businesses. With respect to vendors engaged to perform activities required by servicing criteria, we have elected to take responsibility for assessing compliance with the applicable servicing criteria for the applicable vendor (for Reg AB purposes, some vendors provide their own assessments and attestations) and are required to have procedures in place to provide reasonable assurance that the vendor’s activities comply in all material respects with servicing criteria applicable to the vendor. In the event that a vendor’s activities do not comply with the servicing criteria, it could negatively impact our servicing agreements. Furthermore, our affiliate, Solutionstar, provides support services to us as well as to third parties. By obtaining services from an affiliate, there is additional risk due to possible claims of collusion or claims that such services are not provided at market cost. In addition, if our current vendors were to stop providing services to us on acceptable terms, including as a result of one or more vendor bankruptcies due to poor economic conditions, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other vendors in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. Further, we may incur significant costs to resolve any such disruptions in service and this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have reduced our costs by contracting with certain third parties with operations in India and the Philippines. In 2013, we added 2,000 offshore resources in seven sites in India and the Philippines and may expand to other countries in the future. These countries are subject to relatively higher degrees of political and social instability and may lack the infrastructure to withstand political unrest or natural disasters. Such disruptions can decrease efficiency and increase our costs in these countries. Weakness of the United States dollar in relation to the currencies used in these foreign countries may also reduce the savings achievable through this strategy. Any political or economic instability in these countries could result in our having to replace or reduce these vendor relationships which may increase our labor costs and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.The loss of the services of our senior managers could adversely affect our business. The experience of our senior managers is a valuable asset to us. Our management team has significant experience in the residential mortgage originations and servicing industry. We do not maintain key life insurance policies relating to our senior managers. The loss of the services of our senior managers could adversely affect our business. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract and retain a highly skilled workforce. Our future success will depend on our ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified personnel for all areas of our organization, in particular skilled managers, loan servicers, debt default specialists, loan officers and underwriters. Trained and experienced personnel are in high demand and may be in short supply in some areas. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their 25Table of Contentsvalue to competitors who may seek to recruit them. We may not be able to attract, develop and maintain an adequate skilled workforce necessary to operate our businesses and labor expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of qualified personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain such personnel, we may not be able to take advantage of acquisitions and other growth opportunities that may be presented to us and this could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely affect our earnings. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending and debt collection practices, technology failures, corporate governance, and actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can also result from media coverage, whether accurate or not. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, trading counterparties and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our customers and communities, this risk will always be present in our organization. Regulatory and Legal Risks We operate within a highly regulated industry on a federal, state and local level and our business results are significantly impacted by the laws and regulations to which we are subject.As a national mortgage services firm, we are subject to extensive and comprehensive regulation under federal, state and local laws in the United States. These laws and regulations significantly affect the way that we do business and can restrict the scope of our existing businesses and limit our ability to expand our product offerings or to pursue acquisitions, or can make our costs to service or originate loans higher, which could impact our financial results.The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) issued final regulations effective January 2014 that prohibit mortgage servicers from beginning foreclosure proceedings until a mortgage loan is 120 days delinquent and imposes an “ability to repay” requirement for residential mortgage loans. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act) provides that “qualified mortgages” are entitled to a presumption that the lender making the loan satisfied the ability-to-repay requirements and must have certain product-feature prerequisites and affordability underwriting requirements. Other new regulatory requirements or changes to existing requirements that the CFPB may promulgate could require changes in our business, result in increased compliance costs and impair the profitability of such business. In addition, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act’s potential expansion of the authority of state attorneys general to bring actions to enforce federal consumer protection legislation, we could potentially be subject to additional state lawsuits and enforcement actions, thereby further increasing our legal and compliance costs. These new rules represent a significant shift in the mortgage market, and our failure to comply with these rules could lead to losses in the value of the loans, be an event of default under various servicing agreements or subject us to fines and penalties. The cumulative effect of these changes could result in a material impact on our earnings.A number of provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and other regulatory initiatives under state law are still being finalized and, even when finalized, will likely require significant interpretation and guidance. We could be subject to additional regulatory requirements or changes beyond those currently proposed, adopted or contemplated, particularly given the ongoing heightened regulatory environment in which financial institutions operate. There also continues to be discussion of potential GSE reform which would likely affect markets for mortgages and mortgage securities in ways that cannot be predicted. The heightened regulatory environment has resulted not only in a tendency toward more regulation, but toward the most prescriptive regulation as regulatory agencies have generally taken a conservative approach to rule making, interpretive guidance and their general ongoing supervisory authority.The ongoing implementation of the Dodd Frank Act, including the implementation of the new originations and servicing rules by the CFPB and the CFPB’s continuing examinations of our business, could increase our regulatory compliance burden and associated costs and place restrictions on our operations, which could in turn adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, certain regulators have recently taken steps to block the acquisition of MSRs by one of our competitors. It is possible that we could become subject to similar actions with respect to our acquisition of MSRs or other key business operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26Table of ContentsWe are subject to numerous legal proceedings, federal, state or local governmental examinations, investigations or enforcement actions and related costs could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Some of these matters are highly complex and slow to develop, and results are difficult to predict or estimate. We are routinely and currently involved in a significant number of legal proceedings concerning matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business. There is no assurance that the number of legal proceedings will not increase in the future, and it is possible that one or more class actions may be certified against us. These legal proceedings range from actions involving a single plaintiff to putative class action lawsuits with potentially tens of thousands of class members. These actions and proceedings are generally based on alleged violations of consumer protection, securities, employment, contract, tort, common law fraud and numerous other laws, including the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and Making Home Affordable (MHA) loan modification programs. Additionally, along with others in our industry, we are subject to repurchase or indemnification claims and may continue to receive claims in the future, including from our Legacy Portfolio regarding alleged breaches of representation and warranties relating to the sale of mortgage loans or the placement of mortgage loans into securitization trusts or the servicing of loans included in securitization trusts. Our business is also subject to increasing regulatory oversight and scrutiny, which may lead to additional regulatory investigations or enforcement, including both formal and informal inquiries, from various state and federal agencies as part of those agencies' oversight of the mortgage services and ancillary businesses. Such inquiries may include those into servicer foreclosure fees, processes and procedures, loan modification processes including loans being transferred and lender placed insurance, and may result in us becoming subject to subpoenas or otherwise required to provide information to state or federal regulators. An adverse result in governmental investigations or examinations or private lawsuits, including purported class action lawsuits, may adversely affect our financial results or result in serious reputational harm. In addition, a number of participants in our industry have been the subject of purported class action lawsuits and regulatory actions by state regulators, and other industry participants have been the subject of actions by state Attorneys General. Although we believe we have meritorious legal and factual defenses to the lawsuits in which we are currently involved, the ultimate outcomes with respect to these matters remain uncertain. The outcome of such proceedings is difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings, which may last several years. Although we establish accruals for our legal and regulatory matters according to accounting requirements, the amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be substantially higher than the amounts accrued. Litigation and other proceedings may require that we pay settlement costs, legal fees, damages, penalties or other charges, any or all of which could adversely affect our financial results. In particular, ongoing and other legal proceedings brought under state consumer protection statutes may result in a separate fine for each violation of the statute, which, particularly in the case of class action lawsuits, could result in damages substantially in excess of the amounts we earned from the underlying activities and that could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. The costs of responding to the investigations can be substantial.Moreover, regulatory changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and other recent regulatory changes such as the creation of the CFPB with its own examination and enforcement authority and the “whistle-blower” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act could further increase the number of legal and regulatory proceedings against us. In addition, while we take numerous steps to prevent and detect employee misconduct, such as fraud, employee misconduct cannot always be deterred or prevented and could subject us to additional liability.The enforcement of a consent judgment against one of the largest non-bank servicers by certain federal and state agencies could impose additional compliance costs on our servicing business, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.On December 12, 2013, the CFPB and 49 State Attorneys General entered into a consent judgment against the largest non-bank mortgage servicer in the United States regarding foreclosure and other default servicing practices. The consent judgment requires the servicer, among other things to: (i) promptly correct deficiencies in residential mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure practices; (ii) make significant modifications in practices for residential mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure processing, including communications with borrowers and limitations on dual-tracking, which occurs when servicers continue to pursue foreclosure during the loan modification process; (iii) ensure that foreclosures are not pursued once a mortgage has been approved for modification and establish a single point of contact for borrowers throughout the loan modification and foreclosure processes; (iv) take certain steps to handle loan modifications and other workouts that are “in flight” at the time of the transfer of loans between servicers; and (v) establish robust oversight and controls pertaining to their third-party vendors, including outside legal counsel, that provide default management or foreclosure services. 27Table of ContentsAlthough we are not a party to the above consent judgment, we could become subject to the terms of the consent judgment if (i) the agencies begin to enforce the requirements of the consent judgment by amending their servicing guides; (ii) the mortgage servicers or investors for which we service or subservice loans request that we comply with certain aspects of the consent judgment, or (iii) we otherwise find it prudent to comply with certain aspects of the consent judgment. In addition, the practices set forth in such consent judgment may be adopted by the industry as a whole, forcing us to comply with them in order to follow standard industry practices. While we have made and continue to make changes to our operating policies and procedures in light of this consent judgment and other developments, further changes could be required and changes to our servicing practices could increase compliance costs for our servicing business, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.Federal, state and local laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Federal, state and local governments have recently proposed or enacted numerous laws, regulations and rules related to mortgage loans generally and loan modifications as wells foreclosure actions. These laws, regulations and rules may result in delays in the foreclosure process, reduced payments by borrowers, modification of the original terms of mortgage loans, permanent forgiveness of debt and increased servicing advances.Due to the highly regulated nature of the residential mortgage industry, we are required to comply with a wide array of federal, state and local laws and regulations that regulate, among other things, the manner in which we conduct our servicing and originations business and the fees we may charge. These regulations directly impact our business and require constant compliance, monitoring and internal and external audits. A material failure to comply with any of these laws or regulations could subject us to lawsuits or governmental actions, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, there continue to be changes in legislation and licensing in an effort to simplify the consumer mortgage experience, which require technology changes and additional implementation costs for loan originators. We expect legislative changes will continue in the foreseeable future, which may increase our operating expenses.Solutionstar, our indirectly held, wholly-owned subsidiary, is subject to numerous licensing and regulatory requirements as a provider of ancillary services for residential lending and servicing. These services include managing loans in the foreclosure/real estate owned (REO) process and providing title insurance, loan settlement, valuation and appraisal services in a number of states. Solutionstar is subject to audits and examinations that are conducted by the states in which we do business. Our employees and subsidiaries may be required to be licensed by various state commissions for the particular type of service sold and to participate in regular continuing education programs. We may incur significant ongoing costs to comply with governmental regulations.Under certain circumstances, when borrowers fail to provide hazard or flood insurance on their residences, the servicer of the loan is contractually obligated to place such insurance to protect the collateral and passes the premium costs onto the borrower. Some of our subsidiaries earn commissions as licensed insurance agencies from the sale of lender-placed insurance on our portfolios and from the sale of optional insurance products. On December 18, 2013, under FHFA directive, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac issued a servicing guide announcement, effective June 1, 2014, related to lender-placed insurance, that would exclude from reimbursement any lender-placed insurance commissions and revenue earned by entities related to the servicer, such as our subsidiaries. Similarly, Florida and New York regulators have proposed or issued regulations that prohibit collateral protection insurer from paying commission to a mortgage servicer or its affiliate. Furthermore, there continue to be changes in state laws that are adverse to mortgage servicers that increase costs and operational complexity of our business and impose significant penalties for violation.Any of these changes in the law could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Unlike competitors that are national banks, we are subject to state licensing and operational requirements that result in substantial compliance costs.Because we are not a depository institution, we do not benefit from a federal exemption to state mortgage banking, loan servicing or debt collection licensing and regulatory requirements. We must comply with state licensing requirements and varying compliance requirements in all fifty states and the District of Columbia, and we are sensitive to regulatory changes that may increase our costs through stricter licensing laws, disclosure laws or increased fees or that may impose conditions to licensing that we or our personnel are unable to meet. In addition, we are subject to periodic examinations by state regulators, which can result in refunds to borrowers of certain fees earned by us, and we may be required to pay substantial penalties 28Table of Contentsimposed by state regulators due to compliance errors. Future state legislation and changes in existing regulation may significantly increase our compliance costs or reduce the amount of ancillary fees, including late fees, that we may charge to borrowers. This could make our business cost-prohibitive in the affected state or states and could materially affect our business.Our business would be adversely affected if we lose our licenses.Our operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under numerous federal, state and local statutes, ordinances and regulations. In most states in which we operate, a regulatory agency regulates and enforces laws relating to mortgage servicing companies and mortgage originations companies such as us as well as regulating our ancillary service providers. These rules and regulations generally provide for licensing as a mortgage servicing company, mortgage originations company or third-party debt default specialist, title insurance agency, appraisal management company, licensed auctioneer, and other similar types of requirements as to the form and content of contracts and other documentation, licensing of our employees and employee hiring background checks, licensing of independent contractors with which we contract, restrictions on certain practices, disclosure and record-keeping requirements and enforcement of borrowers’ rights. We are subject to periodic examination by state regulatory authorities. We believe that we maintain all material licenses and permits required for our current operations and are in substantial compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances. We may not be able to maintain all requisite licenses and permits, and the failure to satisfy those and other regulatory requirements could result in a default under our servicing or other agreements and have a material adverse effect on our operations. The states that currently do not provide extensive regulation of our businesses may later choose to do so, and if such states so act, we may not be able to obtain or maintain all requisite licenses and permits. The failure to satisfy those and other regulatory requirements could result in a default under our servicing agreements and have a material adverse effect on our operations. Furthermore, the adoption of additional, or the revision of existing, rules and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may incur increased litigation costs and related losses if a borrower challenges the validity of a foreclosure action or if a court overturns a foreclosure, which could adversely affect our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations.We may incur costs if we are required to, or if we elect to, execute or re-file documents or take other action in our capacity as a servicer in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. We may incur litigation costs if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. If a court overturns a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process, we may have liability to a title insurer or the purchaser of the property sold in foreclosure. These costs and liabilities may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us, particularly to the extent they relate to securitized mortgage loans. In addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action are missing or defective, we could be obligated to cure the defect or repurchase the loan. A significant increase in litigation costs could adversely affect our liquidity, and our inability to be reimbursed for an advance could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Residential mortgage foreclosure proceedings in certain states have been delayed due to lack of judicial resources and new legislation, all of which could have a negative effect on our ability to liquidate loans timely and slow the recovery of advances and thus impact our earnings or liquidity. In some states, such as Florida, New York, New Jersey and Rhode Island, our industry has faced, and may continue to face, increased delays and costs in the foreclosure process related to the re-execution and re-filing of certain documents. In addition, California and Nevada have recently enacted Homeowner’s Bill of Rights legislation to establish fair lending and borrowing practices for homeowners which may cause delays in foreclosure proceedings. Delays in foreclosure proceedings could also require us to make additional servicing advances by drawing on our servicing advance facilities, or delay the recovery of advances, all or any of which could materially affect our earnings and liquidity and increase our need for capital.Risks Related to the Ownership of our Common StockOur common stock price may experience substantial volatility which may affect your ability to sell our common stock at an advantageous price. The market price of our shares of common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. For example, the closing market price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange fluctuated between $13.02 per share and $57.95 per share from our initial public offering in 2012 through 2013 and may continue to fluctuate. Therefore, the volatility may affect your ability to sell our common stock at an advantageous price. Market price fluctuations in our common stock may be due to reduced liquidity resulting from highly concentrated ownership of our common stock, acquisitions, dispositions or other material public 29Table of Contentsannouncements along with a variety of additional factors including, without limitation, those set forth under these “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements.” In addition, the stock markets in general, including the New York Stock Exchange, recently have experienced significant price and trading fluctuations. These fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market prices of our common stock.If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest. FIF HE Holdings LLC (FIF), which is primarily owned by certain private equity funds managed by an affiliate of Fortress Investment Group LLC (Fortress), owns approximately 75% of our outstanding common stock as of February 27, 2014. As a result, FIF owns shares sufficient for the majority vote over all matters requiring a stockholder vote, including: the election of directors; mergers, consolidations and acquisitions; the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other decisions affecting our capital structure; the amendment of our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws; and our winding up and dissolution. This concentration of ownership may delay, deter or prevent acts that would be favored by other stockholders. The interests of FIF may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of us. Also, FIF may seek to cause us to take courses of action that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment in us, but which might involve risks to other stockholders or adversely affect us or other stockholders. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline or stockholders might not receive a premium over the then-current market price of our common stock upon a change in control. In addition, this concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning shares in a company with significant stockholders.Nationstar Inc. is a holding company with no operations and will rely on its operating subsidiaries to provide it with funds necessary to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends. Nationstar Inc. is a holding company with no material direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests we directly or indirectly hold in our operating subsidiaries, which own our operating assets. As a result, we will be dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends on our common stock. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and may be prohibited or restricted from paying dividends or otherwise making funds available to us under certain conditions. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to, or our board may exercise its discretion not to, pay dividends. We do not expect to declare or pay any cash or other dividends in the foreseeable future on our common stock because we intend to use cash flow generated by operations to grow our business. The indentures governing our senior notes restrict our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We may also enter into credit agreements or other borrowing arrangements in the future that restrict or limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock.Certain provisions of the Stockholders Agreement, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control of us, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our stockholders agreement with FIF (Stockholders Agreement), our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors or FIF. These provisions provide for: •a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; •removal of directors only for cause and only with the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote (provided, however, that for so long as FIF and certain other affiliates of Fortress and permitted transferees (collectively, the Fortress Stockholders) beneficially own at least 40% of our issued and outstanding common stock, directors may be removed with or without cause with the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote); •provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws prevent stockholders from calling special meetings of our stockholders (provided, however, that for so long as the Fortress Stockholders beneficially own at least 25% of our issued and outstanding common stock, any stockholders that collectively beneficially own at least 25% of our issued and outstanding common stock may call special meetings of our stockholders);30Table of Contents•advance notice requirements by stockholders with respect to director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; •certain rights to the Fortress Stockholders with respect to the designation of directors for nomination and election to our board of directors, including the ability to appoint a majority of the members of our board of directors for so long as the Fortress Stockholders continue to beneficially own at least 40% of our issued and outstanding common stock; •no provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which means that the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock can elect all the directors standing for election; •our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws only permit action by our stockholders outside a meeting by unanimous written consent, provided, however, that for so long as the Fortress Stockholders beneficially own at least 25% of our issued and outstanding common stock, our stockholders may act without a meeting by written consent of a majority of our stockholders; and •under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has authority to cause the issuance of preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series of preferred stock, all without approval of our stockholders. Nothing in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation precludes future issuances without stockholder approval of the authorized but unissued shares of our common stock. In addition, these provisions may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by FIF, our management or our board of directors. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in these types of transactions may not have an opportunity to do so, even if the transaction is favorable to stockholders. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or change our management and board of directors and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium.Certain of our stockholders have the right to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as us. Fortress has other investments and business activities in addition to their ownership of us. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, FIF has the right, and has no duty to abstain from exercising such right, to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as us, do business with any of our clients, customers or vendors or employ or otherwise engage any of our officers, directors or employees. If FIF or any of its officers, directors or employees acquire knowledge of a potential transaction that could be a corporate opportunity, they have no duty, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to offer such corporate opportunity to us, our stockholders or our affiliates. In the event that any of our directors and officers who is also a director, officer or employee of FIF acquires knowledge of a corporate opportunity or is offered a corporate opportunity, provided that this knowledge was not acquired solely in such person's capacity as our director or officer and such person acts in good faith, then to the fullest extent permitted by law such person is deemed to have fully satisfied such person's fiduciary duties owed to us and is not liable to us, if FIF pursues or acquires the corporate opportunity or if FIF does not present the corporate opportunity to us.Additionally, we may continue to enter into transactions with Fortress and its affiliates such as selling a percentage of the excess cash flow generated from our MSRs or selling the rights to mortgage servicing rights, mortgage servicing rights and servicer advances related to loan pools. These transactions may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. Such transactions may present an actual, potential or perceived conflict of interest. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential, actual or perceived conflicts of interest.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.