Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our company involves a high degree of risk. In deciding whether to invest in our ordinary shares, you should consider carefully the risks described below in addition to the financial and other information contained in this Transition Report, including the matters addressed under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements." If any events described by the following risks actually occur, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or operating results. This could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline, and could cause you to lose all or a part of your investment. Our revenues largely depend on the actions of our third-party collaborators and, if they are not effective, our revenues could be materially adversely affected. The revenues from the sale of our products may fall below our expectations, the expectations of our partners or those of investors, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the price of our ordinary shares. Such revenues will depend on numerous factors, many of which are outside our control. RISPERDAL CONSTA, AMPYRA/FAMPYRA, BYDUREON AND INVEGA SUSTENNA/XEPLION While we manufacture RISPERDAL CONSTA and AMPYRA/FAMPYRA, we are not involved in the commercialization efforts for these products or for BYDUREON or INVEGA SUSTENNA. RISPERDAL CONSTA is commercialized by Janssen. AMPYRA/FAMPYRA is commercialized by Acorda in the U.S. and by Biogen Idec outside the U.S. BYDUREON and INVEGA SUSTENNA are developed, manufactured and commercialized by AstraZeneca and Janssen, respectively. Our revenues, from manufacturing fees and/or royalties, depend upon sales of these products by or on behalf of our partners. Accordingly, our revenues will depend in large part on the efforts of our partners, which are outside of our control. For these and other reasons outside of our control, our revenues from the sale of RISPERDAL CONSTA, AMPYRA/FAMPYRA, BYDUREON and INVEGA SUSTENNA/XEPLION may not meet our or our partners' expectations, or those of investors. VIVITROL In December 2007, we exclusively licensed the right to commercialize VIVITROL for the treatment of alcohol dependence and opioid dependence in Russia and other countries in the CIS to Cilag. Cilag has primary responsibility for securing all necessary regulatory approvals for VIVITROL, and Janssen-Cilag, an affiliate of Cilag, has full responsibility for the commercialization of the product in these countries. We receive manufacturing revenues, and royalty revenues based upon product sales. Our revenues from the sale of VIVITROL in Russia and countries of the CIS may not be significant and will depend on numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control. REMAINING COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO In addition, we are not responsible for, or involved with, the sales and marketing efforts for our other marketed products and, in many instances, we are also not involved in their manufacture. We receive substantial revenues from certain of our products and collaborative partners. We depend substantially upon continued sales of RISPERDAL CONSTA and INVEGA SUSTENNA by our partner, Janssen, and upon continued sales of AMPYRA/FAMPYRA by our partner Acorda, and its sublicensee, Biogen. Any significant negative developments relating to these products, or to our collaborative relationships, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 32 Table of Contents We rely heavily on collaborative partners in the commercialization and continued development of our products. Our arrangements with collaborative partners are critical to bringing our products to the market and successfully commercializing them. We rely on these parties in various respects, including: providing funding for development programs and conducting preclinical testing and clinical trials with respect to new formulations or other development activities for our marketed products; managing the regulatory approval process; and commercializing our products. Our collaborative partners may choose to use their own or other technology to develop an alternative product and withdraw their support of our product, or to compete with our jointly developed product. Alternatively, proprietary products we may develop in the future could compete directly with products we developed with our collaborative partners. Disputes may also arise between us and a collaborative partner and may involve the ownership of technology developed during a collaboration or other issues arising out of collaborative agreements. Such a dispute could delay the related program or result in expensive arbitration or litigation, which may not be resolved in our favor. Most of our collaborative partners can terminate their agreements with us without cause, and we cannot guarantee that any of these relationships will continue. Failure to make or maintain these arrangements or a delay in, or failure of, a collaborative partner's performance, or factors that may affect a partner's sales, may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our revenues may be lower than expected as a result of failure by the marketplace to accept our products or for other factors. We cannot be assured that our products will be, or will continue to be, accepted in the U.S. or in any markets outside the U.S. or that sales of our products will not decline or cease in the future. A number of factors may cause revenues from sales of our products to grow at a slower than expected rate, or even to decrease or cease, including: •perception of physicians and other members of the healthcare community as to our products' safety and efficacy relative to that of competing products; •the cost-effectiveness of our products; •patient and physician satisfaction with our products; •the successful manufacture of our products on a timely basis; •the cost and availability of raw materials necessary for the manufacture of our products; •the size of the markets for our products; •reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers; •unfavorable publicity concerning our products, similar classes of drugs or the industry generally; •the introduction, availability and acceptance of competing treatments, including treatments marketed and sold by our collaborators; •the reaction of companies that market competitive products; •adverse event information relating to our products or to similar classes of drugs; •changes to the product labels of our products, or of products within the same drug classes, to add significant warnings or restrictions on use; •our continued ability to access third parties to vial, package and distribute our products on acceptable terms; 33 Table of Contents •the unfavorable outcome of patent litigation, including so-called "Paragraph IV" litigation, related to any of our products; •regulatory developments related to the manufacture or continued use of our products, including the issuance of a REMS by the FDA; •the extent and effectiveness of the sales and marketing and distribution support our products receive, including from our collaborators; •our collaborators' decisions as to the timing of product launches, pricing and discounting; •disputes with our collaborators relating to the marketing and sale of partnered products; •exchange rate valuations and fluctuations; and •any other material adverse developments with respect to the commercialization of our products. Our revenues will also fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on a number of other factors, including the acceptance of our products in the marketplace, our partners' orders, the timing of shipments, our ability to manufacture successfully, our yield and our production schedule. The unit costs to manufacture our products may be higher than anticipated if certain volume levels are not achieved. In addition, we may not be able to supply the products in a timely manner or at all. We are subject to risks related to the manufacture of our products. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products is a highly complex process in which a variety of difficulties may arise from time to time including, but not limited to, product loss due to material failure, equipment failure, vendor error, operator error, labor shortages, inability to obtain material, equipment or transportation, physical or electronic security breaches, natural disasters and many other factors. Problems with manufacturing processes could result in product defects or manufacturing failures, which could require us to delay shipment of products or recall products previously shipped, or could impair our ability to expand into new markets or supply products in existing markets. We may not be able to resolve any such problems in a timely fashion, if at all. We rely solely on our manufacturing facility in Wilmington, Ohio for the manufacture of RISPERDAL CONSTA, VIVITROL, polymer for BYDUREON and some of our product candidates. We rely on our manufacturing facility in Athlone, Ireland for the manufacture of AMPYRA/FAMPYRA and some of our other products using our NanoCrystal and OCR technologies. We rely on our manufacturing facility in Gainesville, Georgia for the manufacture of RITALIN LA/FOCALIN XR and some of our other products using our OCR technologies. Due to regulatory and technical requirements, we have limited ability to shift production among our facilities or to outsource any part of our manufacturing to third parties. If we cannot produce sufficient commercial quantities of our products to meet demand, there are currently very few, if any, third-party manufacturers capable of manufacturing our products as contract suppliers. We cannot be certain that we could reach agreement on reasonable terms, if at all, with those manufacturers. Even if we were to reach agreement, the transition of the manufacturing process to a third party to enable commercial supplies could take a significant amount of time and money, and may not be successful. Our manufacturing facilities also require specialized personnel and are expensive to operate and maintain. Any delay in the regulatory approval or market launch of product candidates, or suspension of the sale of our products, to be manufactured in our facilities, may cause operating losses as we continue to operate these facilities and retain specialized personnel. In addition, any interruption in manufacturing could result in delays in meeting contractual obligations and could damage our relationships with our collaborative partners, including the loss of manufacturing and supply rights. 34 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to provide services in connection with the manufacture and distribution of our products. We rely on third parties for the timely supply of specified raw materials, equipment, contract manufacturing, formulation or packaging services, product distribution services, customer service activities and product returns processing. Although we actively manage these third-party relationships to ensure continuity and quality, some events beyond our control could result in the complete or partial failure of these goods and services. Any such failure could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The manufacture of products and product components, including the procurement of bulk drug product, packaging, storage and distribution of our products, requires successful coordination among us and multiple third-party providers. For example, we are responsible for the entire supply chain for VIVITROL, up to the sale of final product and including the sourcing of key raw materials and active pharmaceutical agents from third parties. We have limited experience in managing a complex product distribution network. Issues with our third-party providers, including our inability to coordinate these efforts, lack of capacity available at such third-party providers or any other problems with the operations of these third-party contractors, could require us to delay shipment of saleable products, recall products previously shipped or could impair our ability to supply products at all. This could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share and damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Due to the unique nature of the production of our products, there are several single-source providers of our key raw materials. For example, certain solvents and kit components used in the manufacture of RISPERDAL CONSTA are single-sourced. We endeavor to qualify and register new vendors and to develop contingency plans so that production is not impacted by issues associated with single-source providers. Nonetheless, our business could be materially and adversely affected by issues associated with single-source providers. We are also dependent in certain cases on third parties to manufacture products. Where the manufacturing rights to the products in which our technologies are applied are granted to, or retained by, our third-party licensee or approved sub-licensee, we have no control over the manufacturing, supply or distribution of the product. If we or our third-party providers fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of our products, we could incur substantial remedial costs and a reduction in sales and/or revenues. We and our third-party providers are generally required to comply with cGMP regulations and other applicable government and corresponding and foreign standards. In the U.S., the DEA and other state-level agencies heavily regulate the manufacturing, holding, processing, security, recordkeeping and distribution of controlled substances. Our products and product candidates that are scheduled by the DEA as controlled substances make us subject to the DEA's regulations. We are subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA, the DEA or comparable state and foreign agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. Any changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing require amending our application to the FDA or other regulatory agencies, and ultimate amendment acceptance by such agencies, prior to release of product to the applicable marketplace. Our inability or the inability of our third-party service providers to demonstrate ongoing cGMP or other regulatory compliance could require us to withdraw or recall products and interrupt commercial supply of our products. Any delay, interruption or other issues that may arise in the manufacture, formulation, packaging or storage of our products as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection could significantly impair our ability 35 Table of Contents to develop and commercialize our products. This could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share and damage our reputation. The FDA and various regulatory agencies outside the U.S. have inspected and approved our commercial manufacturing facilities. We cannot guarantee that the FDA or any other regulatory agencies will approve any other facility we or our suppliers may operate or, once approved, that any of these facilities will remain in compliance with cGMP and other regulations. Any third party we use to manufacture bulk drug product, or package, store or distribute our products to be sold in the U.S., must be licensed by the FDA and, if the foregoing activities involve controlled substances, the DEA. Failure to gain or maintain regulatory compliance with the FDA or regulatory agencies could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Revenues generated by sales of our products depend on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers, and a reduction in payment rate or reimbursement or an increase in our financial obligation to governmental payers could result in decreased sales of our products and decreased revenues. In both U.S. and non-U.S. markets, sales of our products depend, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers such as state and federal governments, including Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S. and similar programs in other countries, managed care providers and private insurance plans. Deterioration in the timeliness, certainty and amount of reimbursement for our products, including the existence of barriers to coverage of our products (such as prior authorization, criteria for use or other requirements), limitations by healthcare providers on how much, or under what circumstances, they will prescribe or administer our products or unwillingness by patients to pay any required co-payments, could reduce the use of, and revenues generated from, our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, when a new product is approved, the availability of government and private reimbursement for that product is uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be reimbursed. We cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for our product candidates. In the U.S., federal and state legislatures, health agencies and third-party payers continue to focus on containing the cost of healthcare. The 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act encourages the development of comparative effectiveness research, and any adverse findings for our products from such research may reduce the extent of reimbursement for our products. Economic pressure on state budgets may result in states increasingly seeking to achieve budget savings through mechanisms that limit coverage or payment for drugs. State Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. Managed care organizations continue to seek price discounts and, in some cases, to impose restrictions on the coverage of particular drugs. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid expenses may lead to increased use of managed care organizations by Medicaid programs. This may result in managed care organizations influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population and a corresponding constraint on prices and reimbursement for our products. The government-sponsored healthcare systems in Europe and many other countries are the primary payers for healthcare expenditures, including payment for drugs and biologics. We expect that countries may take actions to reduce expenditure on drugs and biologics, including mandatory price reductions, patient access restrictions, suspensions of price increases, increased mandatory discounts or rebates, preference for generic products, reduction in the amount of reimbursement and greater importation of drugs from lower-cost countries. These cost-control measures likely would reduce our revenues. In addition, certain countries set prices by reference to the prices in other countries where our products are marketed. Thus, the inability to secure adequate prices in a particular country may not only limit the marketing of products within that country, but may also adversely affect the ability to obtain acceptable prices in other markets. 36 Table of Contents In addition, public and private insurers have pursued, and continue to pursue, aggressive cost-containment initiatives, including increased focus on comparing the effectiveness, benefits and costs of similar treatments, which may result in lower reimbursement rates for our products. Patent protection for our products is important and uncertain. The following factors are important to our success: •receiving and maintaining patent and/or trademark protection for our products, product candidates, technologies and developing technologies, including those that are the subject of collaborations with our collaborative partners; •maintaining our trade secrets; •not infringing the proprietary rights of others; and •preventing others from infringing our proprietary rights. Patent protection only provides rights of exclusivity for the term of the patent. We are able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. In this regard, we try to protect our proprietary position by filing patent applications in the U.S. and elsewhere related to our proprietary product inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. Our pending patent applications, together with those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. Even if issued, such patents may not provide us with sufficient proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. The development of new technologies or pharmaceutical products may take a number of years, and there can be no assurance that any patents which may be granted in respect of such technologies or products will not have expired or be due to expire by the time such products are commercialized. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and to ensure that our proprietary technology does not infringe the rights of other parties, we cannot ascertain the existence of all potentially conflicting claims. Therefore, there is a risk that third parties may make claims of infringement against our products or technologies. We know of several patents issued in the U.S. to third parties that may relate to our product candidates. We also know of patent applications filed by other parties in the U.S. and various countries outside the U.S. that may relate to some of our product candidates if such patents are issued in their present form. If patents are issued that cover our product candidates, we may not be able to manufacture, use, offer for sale, import or sell such product candidates without first getting a license from the patent holder. The patent holder may not grant us a license on reasonable terms, or it may refuse to grant us a license at all. This could delay or prevent us from developing, manufacturing or selling those of our product candidates that would require the license. A patent holder might also file an infringement action against us claiming that the manufacture, use, offer for sale, import or sale of our product candidates infringed one or more of its patents. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit, our cost of defending such an action is likely to be high and we might not receive a favorable ruling, and the action could be time-consuming and distract management's attention and resources. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all, license the technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. 37 Table of Contents Because the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies involve complex legal and factual questions, enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded to products and processes, including ours, in the U.S. and in other important markets, remains uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these countries. The recently enacted America Invents Act, which reformed certain patent laws in the U.S., may create additional uncertainty. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As more products are commercialized using our proprietary product platforms, or as any product achieves greater commercial success, our patents become more likely to be subject to challenge by potential competitors. The laws of certain countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may not provide any protection against competitors. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar technologies outside the scope of our patent coverage. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our collaborative partners, licensees, employees and consultants. Any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our confidential information, or our competitors might learn of the information in some other way. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to, or independently developed by, a competitor, such event could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Uncertainty over intellectual property in the pharmaceutical industry has been the source of litigation, which is inherently costly and unpredictable. There is considerable uncertainty within the pharmaceutical industry about the validity, scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world. We cannot currently determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted to be infringed by the manufacture, use and sale of our products. In part as a result of this uncertainty, there has been, and we expect that there may continue to be, significant litigation in the pharmaceutical industry regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. We may have to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties who infringe our patents and other intellectual property or challenge our patent or trademark applications. For example, in the U.S., putative generics of innovator drug products (including products in which the innovation comprises a new drug delivery method for an existing product, such as the drug delivery market occupied by us) may file ANDAs and, in doing so, certify that their products either do not infringe the innovator's patents or that the innovator's patents are invalid. This often results in litigation between the innovator and the ANDA applicant. This type of litigation is commonly known as "Paragraph IV" litigation in the U.S. We and our collaborative partners are currently involved in a few Paragraph IV litigations in the U.S. and other proceedings in Europe in respect of some of our products. These litigations could result in new or additional generic competition to our marketed products and a potential reduction in product revenue. Litigation and administrative proceedings concerning patents and other intellectual property rights may be expensive, distracting to management and protracted with no certainty of success. Competitors may sue us as a way of delaying the introduction of our products. Any litigation, including any interference or derivation proceedings to determine priority of inventions, oppositions or other post-grant review proceedings to patents in the U.S. or in countries outside the U.S., or litigation against our partners may be costly and time-consuming and could harm our business. We expect that 38 Table of Contents litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of our proprietary rights. Litigation may be necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope and/or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products. Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other proprietary rights or hinder our ability to manufacture and market our products. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. Pursuant to an amended and restated credit agreement, dated as of September 25, 2012, as amended (the "Term Loan Facility"), we have approximately $375.0 million in original principal term loans, consisting of a $300.0 million, seven-year term loan at LIBOR plus 2.75% with a LIBOR floor of 0.75% ("Term Loan B-1"), and a $75.0 million, four-year term loan at LIBOR plus 2.75% with no LIBOR floor ("Term Loan B-2"). Our existing indebtedness is secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of the combined company assets and properties of Alkermes plc and most of its subsidiaries, which serve as guarantors. The agreements governing the Term Loan Facility include a number of restrictive covenants that, among other things, subject to certain exceptions and baskets, impose operating and financial restrictions on us. Our level of indebtedness and the terms of these financing arrangements could adversely affect our business by, among other things: •requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including business development efforts, research and development and capital expenditures; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; •limiting our ability to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as potential acquisition opportunities; and •increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. The Term Loan Facility imposes restrictive covenants on us and requires certain payments of principal and interest over time. A failure to comply with these restrictions or to make these payments could lead to an event of default that could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. Our future operating results may not be sufficient to ensure compliance with these covenants or to remedy any such default. In the event of an acceleration of this indebtedness, we may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments. We rely on a limited number of pharmaceutical wholesalers to distribute our product. As is typical in the pharmaceutical industry, we rely upon pharmaceutical wholesalers in connection with the distribution of our products. A significant amount of our product is sold to end-users through the three largest wholesalers in the U.S. market, Cardinal Health Inc., AmerisourceBergen Corp., and McKesson Corp. If we are unable to maintain our business relationships with these major pharmaceutical wholesalers on commercially acceptable terms, if the buying patterns of these wholesalers fluctuate due to seasonality, wholesaler buying decisions or other factors outside of our control, such events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 39 Table of Contents We have limited experience in the commercialization of products. We assumed responsibility for the marketing and sale of VIVITROL in the U.S. from Cephalon in December 2008. VIVITROL is the first commercial product for which we have had sole responsibility for commercialization, including but not limited to sales, marketing, distribution and reimbursement-related activities. We are increasingly focused on maintaining rights to commercialize our leading product candidates in certain markets. We have limited commercialization experience. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to serve in our sales and marketing organization, to develop an effective distribution network or to otherwise effectively support our commercialization activities. The cost of establishing and maintaining a sales and marketing organization may exceed its cost-effectiveness. If we fail to develop sales and marketing capabilities, if sales efforts are not effective or if the costs of developing sales and marketing capabilities exceed their cost-effectiveness, such events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our product platforms or product development efforts may not produce safe, efficacious or commercially viable products and, if we are unable to develop new products, our business may suffer. Our long-term viability and growth will depend upon the successful development of new products from our research and development activities. Product development is very expensive and involves a high degree of risk. Only a small number of research and development programs result in the commercialization of a product. Success in pre-clinical work or early-stage clinical trials does not ensure that later-stage or larger-scale clinical trials will be successful. Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. Our ability to complete our clinical trials in a timely fashion depends in large part on a number of key factors including protocol design, regulatory and institutional review board approval, the rate of patient enrollment in clinical trials and compliance with extensive current Good Clinical Practices ("cGCP"). In addition, since we fund the development of our proprietary product candidates, there is a risk that we may not be able to continue to fund all such development efforts to completion or to provide the support necessary to perform the clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals, obtain a final DEA scheduling designation (to the extent our products are controlled substances) or market any approved products on a worldwide basis. We expect the development of products for our own account to consume substantial resources. If we are able to develop commercial products on our own, the risks associated with these programs may be greater than those associated with our programs with collaborative partners. For factors that may affect the market acceptance of our products approved for sale, see "—We face competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries." If our delivery technologies or product development efforts fail to result in the successful development and commercialization of product candidates, if our collaborative partners decide not to pursue development and/or commercialization of our product candidates or if new products do not perform as anticipated, such events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The FDA or other regulatory agencies may not approve our product candidates or may impose limitations upon any product approval. We must obtain government approvals before marketing or selling our product candidates in the U.S. and in jurisdictions outside the U.S. The FDA, DEA, to the extent a product candidate is a controlled substance, and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries, impose substantial and rigorous requirements for the development, production and commercial introduction of drug products. These include pre-clinical, laboratory and clinical testing procedures, sampling activities, clinical trials 40 Table of Contents and other costly and time-consuming procedures. In addition, regulation is not static, and regulatory agencies, including the FDA, evolve in their staff, interpretations and practices and may impose more stringent requirements than currently in effect, which may adversely affect our planned drug development and/or our commercialization efforts. Satisfaction of the requirements of the FDA and of other regulatory agencies typically takes a significant number of years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate. The approval procedure and the time required to obtain approval also varies among countries. Regulatory agencies may have varying interpretations of the same data, and approval by one regulatory agency does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. In addition, the FDA or regulatory agencies outside the U.S. may choose not to communicate with or update us during clinical testing and regulatory review periods. The ultimate decision by the FDA or other regulatory agencies regarding drug approval may not be consistent with prior communications. See "—Our revenues may be lower than expected as a result of failure by the marketplace to accept our products or for other factors." This product development process can last many years, be very costly and still be unsuccessful. Regulatory approval by the FDA or regulatory agencies outside the U.S. can be delayed, limited or not granted at all for many reasons, including: •a product candidate may not demonstrate safety and efficacy for each target indication in accordance with FDA standards or standards of other regulatory agencies; •poor rate of patient enrollment, including limited availability of patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials; •data from preclinical testing and clinical trials may be interpreted by the FDA or other regulatory agencies in different ways than we or our partners interpret it; •the FDA or other regulatory agencies might not approve our or our partners' manufacturing processes or facilities; •the FDA or other regulatory agencies may not approve accelerated development timelines for our product candidates; •the failure of third-party CROs and other third-party service providers and independent clinical investigators to manage and conduct the trials, to perform their oversight of the trials or to meet expected deadlines; •the failure of our clinical investigational sites and the records kept at such sites, including the clinical trial data, to be in compliance with the FDA's GCP, or EU legislation governing GCP, including the failure to pass FDA, EMA or EU Member State inspections of clinical trials; •the FDA or other regulatory agencies may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations; •adverse medical events during the trials could lead to requirements that trials be repeated or extended, or that a program be terminated or placed on clinical hold, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are successful; and •the FDA or other regulatory agencies may not agree with our or our partners' regulatory approval strategies or components of our or our partners' filings, such as clinical trial designs. In addition, our product development timelines may be impacted by third-party patent litigation. In summary, we cannot be sure that regulatory approval will be granted for product candidates that we submit for regulatory review. Our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of additional products will be limited by any failure to obtain these approvals. In addition, stock prices have declined significantly in certain instances where companies have failed to obtain FDA approval of a product candidate or if the timing of FDA approval is delayed. If the FDA's or any other regulatory 41 Table of Contents agency's response to any application for approval is delayed or not favorable for any of our product candidates, our stock price could decline significantly. Even if regulatory approval to market a drug product is granted, the approval may impose limitations on the indicated use for which the drug product may be marketed and additional post-approval requirements with which we would need to comply in order to maintain the approval of such products. Our business could be seriously harmed if we do not complete these studies and the FDA, as a result, requires us to change related sections of the marketing label for our products. In addition, adverse medical events that occur during clinical trials or during commercial marketing of our products could result in legal claims against us and the temporary or permanent withdrawal of our products from commercial marketing, which could seriously harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. Further, even if the FDA provides regulatory approval, centrally acting drugs will not become commercially available until after the DEA provides its final schedule designation, which may take longer and may be more restrictive than we expect or change after its initial designation. We currently expect ALKS 5461 and ALKS 3831 to require such DEA final schedule designation prior to commercialization. DEA scheduling can negatively impact the ability or willingness of healthcare professionals to prescribe or dispense products, the likelihood that patients will use them and other aspects of our ability to commercialize such products. Clinical trials for our product candidates are expensive, and their outcome is uncertain. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any products, we or our partners must demonstrate, through preclinical testing and clinical trials, that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans. We have incurred, and we will continue to incur, substantial expense for preclinical testing and clinical trials. Our pre-clinical and clinical development efforts may not be successfully completed. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. The length of time can vary substantially with the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: •the potential delay by a collaborative partner in beginning a clinical trial; •the inability to recruit clinical trial participants at the expected rate; •the failure of clinical trials to demonstrate a product candidate's safety or efficacy; •the inability to follow patients adequately after treatment; •unforeseen safety issues; •the inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of materials used for clinical trials; and •unforeseen governmental or regulatory issues, including those by the FDA, DEA and other regulatory agencies. In addition, we have opened clinical sites and are enrolling patients in a number of countries where our experience is more limited. For example, the phase 3 study of aripiprazole lauroxil is being conducted in many countries around the world, including in Eastern Europe and Asia. We depend on independent clinical investigators, CROs and other third-party service providers and our collaborators in the conduct of clinical trials for our product candidates and in the accurate reporting of results from such clinical trials. We rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials but do not control many aspects of their activities. For example, while the investigators are not our employees, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. 42 Table of Contents The results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials often have not predicted results of later clinical trials. A number of new drugs have shown promising results in early clinical trials but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Clinical trials conducted by us, by our collaborative partners or by third parties on our behalf may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our product candidates. If a product candidate fails to demonstrate safety and efficacy in clinical trials, or if third parties fail to conduct clinical trials in accordance with their obligations, the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed or prevented, and such events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The commercial use of our products may cause unintended side effects or adverse reactions, or incidents of misuse may occur, which could adversely affect our business and stock price. We cannot predict whether the commercial use of our products will produce undesirable or unintended side effects that have not been evident in the use of, or in clinical trials conducted for, such products to date. Additionally, incidents of product misuse may occur. These events, among others, could result in product recalls, product liability actions or withdrawals or additional regulatory controls (including additional regulatory scrutiny and requirements for additional labeling), all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, the reporting of adverse safety events involving our products and public rumors about such events could cause our product sales or stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility. If we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the healthcare industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business. Our activities, and the activities of our collaborators and third-party providers, are subject to comprehensive government regulation. Government regulation by various national, state and local agencies, which includes detailed inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, marketing and promotion, adverse event reporting, sampling, distribution, recordkeeping, storage, and disposal practices, and achieving compliance with these regulations, substantially increases the time, difficulty and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining the approval to market newly developed and existing products. Government regulatory actions can result in delay in the release of products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for their production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and penalties. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies also have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulation, including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing information, impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of healthcare business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, antitrust violations or violations related to environmental matters. Changes in laws affecting the healthcare industry could also adversely affect our revenues and profitability, including new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to patent protection and enforcement, healthcare availability, and product pricing and marketing. Changes in FDA regulations and regulations issued by other regulatory agencies inside and outside of the U.S., including new or different approval requirements, timelines and processes, may also delay or prevent the approval of new products, require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or other measures that could increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect the market for our products. The enactment in the U.S. of healthcare reform, new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing drugs from other jurisdictions and legislation on comparative 43 Table of Contents effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. While we continually strive to comply with these complex requirements, we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our collaborators, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and/or laws or all potentially applicable regulations and/or laws outside the U.S. and interpretations of the applicability of these laws to marketing practices. If we or our agents fail to comply with any of those regulations and/or laws, a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs or other sanctions or litigation. Additionally, while we have implemented numerous risk mitigation measures, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to effectively mitigate all operational risks. Failure to effectively mitigate all operational risks may materially adversely affect our product supply, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and/or business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We face competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. We face intense competition in the development, manufacture, marketing and commercialization of our products and product candidates from many and varied sources, such as academic institutions, government agencies, research institutions and biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including other companies with similar technologies. Some of these competitors are also our collaborative partners, who control the commercialization of products for which we receive manufacturing and royalty revenues. These competitors are working to develop and market other systems, products, vaccines and other methods of preventing or reducing disease, and new small-molecule and other classes of drugs that can be used with or without a drug delivery system. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by intensive research, development and commercialization efforts and rapid and significant technological change. Many of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. We expect our competitors to develop new technologies, products and processes that may be more effective than those we develop. The development of technologically improved or different products or technologies may make our product candidates or product platforms obsolete or noncompetitive before we recover expenses incurred in connection with their development or realize any revenues from any commercialized product. There are other companies developing extended-release product platforms. In many cases, there are products on the market or in development that may be in direct competition with our products or product candidates. In addition, we know of new chemical entities that are being developed that, if successful, could compete against our product candidates. These chemical entities are being designed to work differently than our product candidates and may turn out to be safer or to be more effective than our product candidates. Among the many experimental therapies being tested around the world, there may be some that we do not now know of that may compete with our proprietary product platforms or product candidates. Our collaborative partners could choose a competing technology to use with their drugs instead of one of our product platforms and could develop products that compete with our products. With respect to our proprietary injectable product platform, we are aware that there are other companies developing extended-release delivery systems for pharmaceutical products. RISPERDAL CONSTA and INVEGA SUSTENNA may compete with a number of other injectable products including ZYPREXA RELPREVV ((olanzapine) For Extended Release Injectable Suspension), which is marketed and sold by Lilly; a once-monthly injectable formulation of ABILIFY (aripiprazole) 44 Table of Contents developed by Otsuka, which was approved by the FDA in February 2013 and is commercialized under the name ABILIFY MAINTENA; oral compounds currently on the market, including generic versions of many branded products; and other products currently in development. In the treatment of alcohol dependence, VIVITROL competes with CAMPRAL (acamprosate calcium) sold by Forest Laboratories and ANTABUSE sold by Odyssey as well as currently marketed drugs, including generic drugs, also formulated from naltrexone. Other pharmaceutical companies are developing product candidates that have shown some promise in treating alcohol dependence and that, if approved by the FDA, would compete with VIVITROL. In the treatment of opioid dependence, VIVITROL competes with methadone, oral naltrexone, and SUBOXONE (buprenorphine HCl/naloxone HCl dehydrate sublingual tablets), SUBOXONE (buprenorphine/naloxone) Sublingual Film, and SUBUTEX (buprenorphine HCl sublingual tablets), each of which is marketed and sold by Reckitt Benckiser Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the U.S. It also competes with generic versions of SUBUTEX and SUBOXONE sublingual tablets. Other pharmaceutical companies are developing product candidates that have shown promise in treating opioid dependence and that, if approved by the FDA, would compete with VIVITROL. BYDUREON competes with established therapies for market share. Such competitive products include sulfonylureas, metformin, insulins, thiazolidinediones, glinides, dipeptidyl peptidase type IV inhibitors, insulin sensitizers, alpha-glucosidase inhibitors and sodium-glucose transporter-2 inhibitors. BYDUREON also competes with other GLP-1 agonists, including VICTOZA (liraglutide (rDNA origin) injection), which is marketed and sold by Novo Nordisk A/S. Other pharmaceutical companies are developing product candidates for the treatment of type 2 diabetes that, if approved by the FDA, could compete with BYDUREON. AMPYRA/FAMPYRA is, to our knowledge, the first product that is approved as a treatment to improve walking in patients with MS. However, there are a number of FDA-approved therapies for MS disease management that seek to reduce the frequency and severity of exacerbations or slow the accumulation of physical disability for people with certain types of MS. These products include AVONEX, TYSABRI and TECFIDERA from Biogen Idec, BETASERON from Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, COPAXONE from Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., REBIF from Merck Serono, GILENYA and EXTAVIA from Novartis AG, and AUBAGIO from Sanofi-Aventis. With respect to our NanoCrystal technology, we are aware that other technology approaches similarly address poorly water soluble drugs. These approaches include nanoparticles, cyclodextrins, lipid-based self-emulsifying drug delivery systems, dendrimers and micelles, among others, any of which could limit the potential success and growth prospects of products incorporating our NanoCrystal technology. In addition, there are many competing technologies to our OCR technology, some of which are owned by large pharmaceutical companies with drug delivery divisions and other, smaller drug-delivery-specific companies. If we are unable to compete successfully in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, such events could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We may not become profitable on a sustained basis. At December 31, 2013, our accumulated deficit was $482.3 million, which was primarily the result of net losses incurred from 1987, the year Alkermes, Inc., was founded, through March 31, 2012, partially offset by net income over recent fiscal periods. There can be no assurance we will achieve sustained profitability. A major component of our revenue is dependent on our partners' and our ability to commercialize, and our and our partners' ability to manufacture economically, our marketed products. 45 Table of Contents Our ability to achieve sustained profitability in the future depends, in part, on our ability to: •obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products and product candidates, and for our partnered products, both in the U.S. and in other countries; •efficiently manufacture our products; •support the commercialization of our products by our collaborative partners; •successfully market and sell VIVITROL in the U.S.; •support the commercialization of VIVITROL in Russia and the countries of the CIS by our partner Cilag; •enter into agreements to develop and commercialize our products and product candidates; •develop, have manufactured or expand our capacity to manufacture and market our products and product candidates; •obtain adequate reimbursement coverage for our products from insurance companies, government programs and other third-party payers; •obtain additional research and development funding from collaborative partners or funding for our proprietary product candidates; and •achieve certain product development milestones. In addition, the amount we spend will impact our profitability. Our spending will depend, in part, on: •the progress of our research and development programs for our product candidates and for our partnered product candidates, including clinical trials; •the time and expense that will be required to pursue FDA and/or non-U.S. regulatory approvals for our products and whether such approvals are obtained; •the time that will be required for the DEA to provide its final scheduling designation for our products that are controlled substances; •the time and expense required to prosecute, enforce and/or challenge patent and other intellectual property rights; •the cost of building, operating and maintaining manufacturing and research facilities; •the cost of third-party manufacture; •the number of product candidates we pursue, particularly proprietary product candidates; •how competing technological and market developments affect our product candidates; •the cost of possible acquisitions of technologies, compounds, product rights or companies; •the cost of obtaining licenses to use technology owned by others for proprietary products and otherwise; •the costs of potential litigation; and •the costs associated with recruiting and compensating a highly skilled workforce in an environment where competition for such employees may be intense. We may not achieve all or any of these goals and, thus, we cannot provide assurances that we will ever be profitable on a sustained basis or achieve significant revenues. Even if we do achieve some or all of these goals, we may not achieve significant or sustained commercial success. 46 Table of Contents We may require additional funds to execute on our business strategy, and such funding may not be available on commercially favorable terms or at all, and may cause dilution to our existing shareholders. We may require additional funds in the future to execute on our business strategy, and we may seek funds through various sources, including debt and equity offerings, corporate collaborations, bank borrowings, arrangements relating to assets, sale of royalty streams we receive on our products or other financing methods or structures. The source, timing and availability of any financings will depend on market conditions, interest rates and other factors. If we issue additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities to raise funds, our shareholders will suffer dilution of their investment, and it may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, as a condition to providing additional funds to us, future investors or lenders may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. If we issue additional debt securities in the future, our existing debt service obligations will increase further. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund our debt service obligations or to repay our debt, we may be forced to delay or terminate clinical trials or curtail operations. We cannot be certain, however, that additional financing will be available from any of these sources when needed or, if available, will be on acceptable terms, if at all, particularly if the credit and financial markets are constrained at the time we require funding. If we fail to obtain additional capital when we need it, we may not be able to execute our business strategy successfully and may have to give up rights to our product platforms, product candidates or marketed products or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. Product liability claims may adversely affect our business. The administration of drugs in humans, whether in clinical studies or commercially, carries the inherent risk of product liability claims whether or not the drugs are actually the cause of an injury. Our products or product candidates may cause, or may appear to have caused, injury or dangerous drug interactions, and we may not learn about or understand those effects until the product or product candidate has been administered to patients for a prolonged period of time. We are subject from time to time to lawsuits based on product liability and related claims. We currently carry product liability insurance coverage in such amounts as we believe are sufficient for our business. However, this coverage may not be sufficient to satisfy any liabilities that may arise. As our development activities progress and we continue to have commercial sales, this coverage may be inadequate, we may be unable to obtain adequate coverage at an acceptable cost or at all, or our insurer may disclaim coverage as to a future claim. This could prevent or limit our commercialization of our products. We may not be successful in defending ourselves in the litigation and, as a result, our business could be materially harmed. These lawsuits may result in large judgments or settlements against us, any of which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and business if in excess of our insurance coverage. Additionally, lawsuits can be expensive to defend, whether or not they have merit, and the defense of these actions may divert the attention of our management and other resources that would otherwise be engaged in managing our business. Additionally, product recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the direction of the FDA, other government agencies or other entities having regulatory control for pharmaceutical product sales. We cannot assure you that product recalls will not occur in the future or that, if such recalls occur, such recalls will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations or reputation. Our business involves environmental, health and safety risks. Our business involves the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals and is subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and to periodic inspections for possible violations of these laws and regulations. Under certain of those laws and regulations, we could be liable 47 Table of Contents for any contamination at our current or former properties or third-party waste disposal sites. In addition to significant remediation costs, contamination can give rise to third-party claims for fines, penalties, natural resource damages, personal injury and damage (including property damage). The costs of compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations are significant. Any violations, even if inadvertent or accidental, of current or future environmental, health or safety laws or regulations, the cost of compliance with any resulting order or fine and any liability imposed in connection with any contamination for which we may be responsible could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Adverse credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. As a result of adverse credit and financial market conditions, organizations that reimburse for use of our products, such as government health administration authorities and private health insurers, may be unable to satisfy such obligations or may delay payment. In addition, federal and state health authorities may reduce reimbursements (including Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements in the U.S.) or payments, and private insurers may increase their scrutiny of claims. We are also dependent on the performance of our collaborative partners, and we sell our products to our collaborative partners through contracts that may not be secured by collateral or other security. Accordingly, we bear the risk if our partners are unable to pay amounts due to us thereunder. Due to the recent tightening of global credit and the volatility in the financial markets, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborative partners. If such third parties are unable to pay amounts owed to us or satisfy their commitments to us, or if there are reductions in the availability or extent of reimbursement available to us, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations would be adversely affected. Currency exchange rates may affect revenues and expenses. We conduct a large portion of our business in international markets. For example, we derive a majority of our RISPERDAL CONSTA revenues and all of our FAMPYRA and XEPLION revenues from sales in countries other than the U.S., and these sales are denominated in non-U.S. dollar ("USD") currencies. We also incur substantial operating costs in Ireland and face exposure to changes in the exchange ratio of the USD and the Euro arising from expenses and payables at our Irish operations that are settled in Euro. The impact of changes in the exchange ratio of the USD and the Euro on our USD-denominated revenues earned in countries other than the U.S. is partially offset by the opposite impact of changes in the exchange ratio of the USD and the Euro on operating expenses and payables incurred at our Irish operations that are settled in Euro. Refer to "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk" for additional information relating to our foreign currency exchange rate risk. We may not be able to retain our key personnel. Our success depends largely upon the continued service of our management and scientific staff and our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, scientific, manufacturing, management, regulatory compliance and selling and marketing personnel. The loss of key personnel or our inability to hire and retain personnel who have technical, scientific, manufacturing, management, regulatory compliance or commercial backgrounds could materially adversely affect our research and development efforts and our business. 48 Table of Contents Future transactions may harm our business or the market price of our ordinary shares. We regularly review potential transactions related to technologies, products or product rights and businesses complementary to our business. These transactions could include: •mergers; •acquisitions; •strategic alliances; •licensing agreements; and •co-promotion agreements. We may choose to enter into one or more of these transactions at any time, which may cause substantial fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares. Moreover, depending upon the nature of any transaction, we may experience a charge to earnings, which could also materially adversely affect our results of operations and could harm the market price of our ordinary shares. If we are unable to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties that we acquire, such events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Merger and acquisition transactions, including the Business Combination, involve various inherent risks, including: •uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities of, the respective parties; •the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business; •the consummation of financing transactions, acquisitions or dispositions and the related effects on our business; •the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies from an acquisition in the amounts and within the timeframe predicted; •problems that could arise from the integration of the respective businesses, including the application of internal control processes to the acquired business; •difficulties that could be encountered in managing international operations; and •unanticipated changes in business, industry, market or general economic conditions that differ from the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the transaction. Any one or more of these factors could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated from a transaction. Moreover, any acquisition opportunities we pursue could materially affect our liquidity and capital resources and may require us to incur additional indebtedness, seek equity capital or both. Future acquisitions could also result in our assuming more long-term liabilities relative to the value of the acquired assets than we have assumed in our previous acquisitions. Further, acquisition accounting rules require changes in certain assumptions made subsequent to the measurement period as defined in current accounting standards, to be recorded in current period earnings, which could affect our results of operations. 49 Table of Contents Our actual financial position and results of operations may differ materially from the unaudited pro forma financial data included in this Transition Report. The pro forma financial data contained in this Transition Report are presented for illustrative purposes only and may not be an indication of what our financial condition or results of operations would have been had the Business Combination been completed on the dates indicated. The pro forma financial data have been derived from the audited and unaudited historical financial statements of Alkermes, Inc. and EDT, and certain adjustments and assumptions have been made regarding the combined company after giving effect to the Business Combination. Accordingly, the actual financial condition and results of operations of the combined company following the Business Combination may not be consistent with, or evident from, this pro forma financial data. In addition, the assumptions used in preparing the pro forma financial information may not prove to be accurate, and other factors may affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any potential decline in our financial condition or results of operations may cause significant variations in our share price. If goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we could have to take significant charges against earnings. In connection with the accounting for the Business Combination, we recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. ("GAAP"), we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets have been impaired. Amortizing intangible assets will be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders' equity in future periods. Our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by volatility in the U.S. credit markets. As of December 31, 2013, a majority of our investments were invested in U.S. government treasury and agency securities. Our investment objectives are, first, to preserve liquidity and conserve capital and, second, to generate investment income. Should our investments cease paying, or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. In addition, general credit, liquidity, market and interest risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our effective tax rate may increase. As a global biopharmaceutical company, we are subject to taxation in a number of different jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various places that we operate. In preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of these places. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the distribution of our profits or losses between the jurisdictions where we operate and differences in interpretation of tax laws. In addition, the tax laws of any jurisdiction in which we operate may change in the future, which could impact our effective tax rate. Tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate may audit us. If we are unsuccessful in defending any tax positions adopted in our submitted tax returns, we may be required to pay taxes for prior periods, interest, fines or penalties, and may be obligated to pay increased taxes in the future, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and growth prospects. 50 Table of Contents The Business Combination of Alkermes, Inc. and EDT may limit our ability to use our tax attributes to offset taxable income, if any, generated from such Business Combination. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, a corporation is generally considered tax resident in the place of its incorporation. Because we are incorporated in Ireland, we should be deemed an Irish corporation under these general rules. However, Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") generally provides that a corporation organized outside the U.S. that acquires substantially all of the assets of a corporation organized in the U.S. will be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes if shareholders of the acquired U.S. corporation own at least 80% (of either the voting power or the value) of the stock of the acquiring foreign corporation after the acquisition by reason of holding stock in the domestic corporation, and the "expanded affiliated group" (as defined in Section 7874) that includes the acquiring corporation does not have substantial business activities in the country in which it is organized. In addition, Section 7874 provides that if a corporation organized outside the U.S. acquires substantially all of the assets of a corporation organized in the U.S., the taxable income of the U.S. corporation during the period beginning on the date the first assets are acquired as part of the acquisition, through the date which is ten years after the last date assets are acquired as part of the acquisition, shall be no less than the income or gain recognized by reason of the transfer during such period or by reason of a license of property by the expatriated entity after such acquisition to a foreign affiliate during such period, which is referred to as the "inversion gain," if shareholders of the acquired U.S. corporation own at least 60% (of either the voting power or the value) of the stock of the acquiring foreign corporation after the acquisition by reason of holding stock in the domestic corporation, and the "expanded affiliated group" of the acquiring corporation does not have substantial business activities in the country in which it is organized. In connection with the Business Combination, Alkermes, Inc. transferred certain intellectual property to one of our Irish subsidiaries, and it is expected that Alkermes, Inc. had sufficient net operating loss carryforwards available to substantially offset any taxable income generated from this transfer. If this rule was to apply to the Business Combination, among other things, Alkermes, Inc. would not have been able to use any of the approximately $274 million of U.S. Federal net operating loss ("NOL") and $38 million of U.S. state NOL carryforwards that it had as of March 31, 2011 to offset any taxable income generated as part of the Business Combination or as a result of the transfer of intellectual property. We do not believe that either of these limitations should apply as a result of the Business Combination. However, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") could assert a contrary position, in which case we could become involved in tax controversy with the IRS regarding possible additional U.S. tax liability. If we were to be unsuccessful in resolving any such tax controversy in our favor, we could be liable for significantly greater U.S. federal and state income tax than we anticipate being liable for through the Business Combination, including as a result of the transfer of intellectual property, which would place further demands on our cash needs. Litigation and/or arbitration may result in financial losses or harm our reputation and may divert management resources. We may be the subject of certain claims, including product liability claims and those asserting violations of securities and fraud and abuse laws and derivative actions. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any future litigation, arbitration or third-party inquiry. We may not be successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights in new lawsuits, investigations or claims that may be brought against us and, as a result, our business could be materially harmed. These lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations or claims may result in large judgments or settlements against us, any of which could have a negative effect on our financial performance and business. Additionally, lawsuits, arbitrations and investigations can be expensive to defend, whether or not the lawsuit, arbitration or 51 Table of Contents investigation has merit, and the defense of these actions may divert the attention of our management and other resources that would otherwise be engaged in running our business. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist shareholders. Proxy contests have been waged against many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry over the last few years. If faced with a proxy contest, we may not be able to respond successfully to the contest, which would be disruptive to our business. Even if we are successful, our business could be adversely affected by a proxy contest involving us because: •responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting operations and diverting the attention of management and employees, and can lead to uncertainty; •perceived uncertainties as to future direction may result in the loss of potential acquisitions, collaborations or in-licensing opportunities, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; and •if individuals are elected to our board of directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and implement our strategic plan in a timely manner and create additional value for our shareholders. These actions could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to experience periods of volatility. If any of our partners undergoes a change in control or in management, this may adversely affect our collaborative relationships or revenues from our products. RISPERDAL CONSTA is commercialized by Janssen. AMPYRA/FAMPYRA is commercialized by Acorda in the U.S. and by Biogen Idec outside the U.S. BYDUREON and INVEGA SUSTENNA are developed, manufactured and commercialized by AstraZeneca and Janssen, respectively. We may, from time to time, work with Janssen, Acorda and AstraZeneca to address certain issues related to these products. In doing so, we have established relationships with members of the management teams of Janssen, Acorda and AstraZeneca in relevant functional areas. If any of our partners undergoes a change of control or a change of management, we will need to re-establish many of these relationships, and we may need to gain alignment on certain issues related to our products. Given the inherent uncertainty and disruption that arises in a change of control, we cannot be sure that we would be able to successfully execute these courses of action. Finally, any change of control or in management may result in a reprioritization of our product within such partner's portfolio, or such partner may fail to maintain the financial or other resources necessary to continue supporting its role in the collaborative arrangement. If any of our partners undergoes a change of control and the acquirer either is unable to perform such partner's obligations under its agreements with us or has a product that competes with ours that such acquirer does not divest, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our suppliers and partners, as well as personally identifiable information of patients, clinical trial participants and employees. Similarly, our partners and third-party providers possess certain of our sensitive data. The secure maintenance of this 52 Table of Contents information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information, including our data being breached at our partners or third-party providers, could result in legal claims or proceedings and liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation which could adversely affect our business. If we identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to meet our reporting obligations and the trading price of our ordinary shares could be negatively affected. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, or we discover areas that need improvement in the future, these shortcomings could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, and the price of our ordinary shares could be negatively affected. If we cannot conclude that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could lead to a decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares. Failure to comply with reporting requirements could also subject us to sanctions and/or investigations by the SEC, the NASDAQ Stock Market or other regulatory authorities. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be the source of gain for our stockholders. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain all of our current and future earnings to finance the growth and development of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our ordinary shares will be the sole source of gain for our stockholders for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 