Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Significant loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers will not repay their loans. We provide for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial condition and results of operations. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount recorded in our allowance for loan losses. In addition, we might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. Furthermore, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. The recent decline in the national economy and the local economies of the areas in which our loans are concentrated could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures or repossessions resulting in increased charge-off amounts and the need for additional loan loss allowances in future periods. In addition, our determination as to the amount of our allowance for loan losses is subject to review by our primary regulators, the FDIC and the NCCoB, as part of their examination process, which may result in the establishment of an additional allowance based upon the judgment of the FDIC and/or the NCCoB after a review of the information available at the time of their examination. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to $8.5 million and $10.6 million, or 2.20% and 2.45% of total loans outstanding and 739.62% and 51.53% of nonperforming loans, at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. A large loss could deplete the allowance and require increased provisions to replenish the allowance, which would decrease our earnings. In addition, at December 31, 2012, we had fifty-two loan relationships with outstanding balances that exceeded $1.0 million, all of which were performing according to their original terms. The deterioration of one or more of these loan relationships could result in a significant increase in our nonperforming loans and our provision for loan losses, which would negatively impact our results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our commercial lending activities have exposed us to losses in recent periods and our continued emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to future lending risks. Our emphasis on commercial mortgage, commercial construction and commercial land development loans has exposed us to losses as the recent economic recession has adversely affected many businesses and developers in our market area. We are continuing to emphasize our commercial mortgage and commercial and industrial lending activities. At December 31, 2012, 26.7% of our commercial real estate loans were secured by owner-occupied properties. At December 31, 2012, our loan portfolio included $138.8 million, or 35.8% of total loans, of commercial mortgage loans, $5.2 million, or 1.3% of total loans, of commercial construction and land development loans, and $11.1 million, or 2.9% of total loans, of commercial and industrial loans. Commercial mortgage loans, commercial construction and land development loans and commercial and industrial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of nonpayment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers, and in the case of commercial construction and land development loans, the successful completion and sale of the project. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial and industrial loans also expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. A slowing or declining of national and local economic conditions could result in increases in our level of nonperforming loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and in our primary market area. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in our primary market area in particular. In recent years, the national economy has experienced recessionary conditions that have resulted in general economic downturns, with rising unemployment levels, declines in real estate values and an erosion in consumer confidence. Over the course of the past year, the tourism industry in the Asheville metropolitan area has largely recovered, which positively impacted the economy in a number of our local markets, such as Buncombe and Henderson Counties, that directly benefit from this industry, and the overall unemployment rate in the Asheville metropolitan area decreased to 7.5% in December 2012 from 8.1% in December 2011. McDowell County, which is located in our primary market area, continued to experience unemployment rates that exceeded both the national and state unemployment rates. As of December 2012, the unemployment rate for McDowell County was 11.0%, while the national and state unemployment rates were 7.8% and 9.2%, respectively. In addition, our primary market area has experienced a softening of the local real estate market, including reductions in local property values, and a decline in the local manufacturing industry, which employs many of our borrowers. A prolonged or more severe economic downturn, continued elevated levels of unemployment, further declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms. Continued or further deterioration in local economic conditions could also drive the level of loan losses beyond the level we have provided for in our allowance for loan and lease losses, which could necessitate increasing our provision for loans losses and reduce our earnings. Additionally, the demand for our products and services could be reduced, which would adversely impact our liquidity and the level of revenues we generate. 22 Table of Contents Further declines in real estate values may cause us to incur losses in our portfolio of foreclosed real estate. Our portfolio of foreclosed real estate includes parcels of unimproved land, land with completed structures and land with structures in various stages of completion. We may have to incur additional costs to complete certain parcels of our foreclosed properties in order to market and sell the parcels, which may not fully recover upon the sale of the parcel thereby causing us to incur additional losses. In addition, general declines in the values of real estate in our market areas may cause us to recognize further write-downs on our foreclosed real estate or to incur losses when we sell our foreclosed real estate. The geographic concentration of our loan portfolio and lending activities makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy. Nearly all of our loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in our primary market area, which consists of Buncombe, Madison, McDowell, Henderson and Transylvania Counties in North Carolina and the surrounding areas. This concentration makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy and real estate markets. Adverse conditions in the local economy such as inflation, unemployment, recession or other factors beyond our control could impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which could impact our net interest income. Decreases in local real estate values could adversely affect the value of the property used as collateral for our loans, which could cause us to realize a loss in the event of a foreclosure. Changes in interest rates may hurt our profits and investment securities values. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our interest rate spread is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our borrowings. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our interest rate spread to expand or contract. Our liabilities are shorter in duration than our assets, so they will adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs will rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our interest rate spread to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—will also reduce our interest rate spread. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities are shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we will experience pressure on our interest rate spread as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. 23 Table of Contents The Standard & Poor’s downgrade in the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating, and in the credit ratings of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by certain related institutions, agencies and instrumentalities, could result in risks to the Company and the Bank and general economic conditions that we are not able to predict. On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the United States long-term debt rating from its AAA rating to AA+. On August 8, 2011, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the credit ratings of certain long-term debt instruments issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and other U.S. government agencies linked to long-term U.S. debt. Instruments of this nature are key assets on the balance sheets of financial institutions, including the Bank. While the impact of these downgrades has not resulted in any material volatility in the global and domestic financial markets during the past several months, primarily due to the relative strength of United States debt compared to that of other countries, these Standard & Poor’s downgrades, combined with the negative outlook placed on United States long-term debt by Moody’s and Fitch subsequent to the Standard & Poor’s downgrades, still have the potential of resulting in an adverse effect in the market value of such instruments, and could adversely impact our ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments, as well as affecting the pricing of that funding when it is available. In addition, and particularly considering the current political climate in Washington, D.C., these downgrades and negative outlooks continue to create an environment that could materially affect global and domestic financial markets and economic conditions, which in turn might affect the Company’s and the Bank’s business, financial condition and liquidity and possibly result in future changes in capital requirements or a rebalancing of investment portfolios in response to management’s assessment of the related risk weightings. We cannot predict if, when or how these changes to the credit ratings and/or negative outlooks will affect economic conditions. As a result, the changes to the credit ratings and/or negative outlooks could result in a significant adverse impact to the Company, and could exacerbate the other risks to which the Company is subject. Our business strategy includes moderate growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. Over the long term, we expect to experience growth in our assets, our deposits and the scale of our operations, whether through organic growth or acquisitions. However, achieving our growth targets requires us to successfully execute our business strategies. Our business strategies include continuing to diversify our loan portfolio by increasing our commercial and industrial lending activities and introducing new and competitive deposit products. Our ability to successfully grow will also depend on the continued availability of loan opportunities that meet our stringent underwriting standards. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan, and our business and prospects could be adversely affected. Financial reform legislation recently enacted by Congress has, among other things, tightened capital standards, created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and resulted in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) enacted in 2010 has significantly changed the current bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as stringent as those required for insured depository institutions, and the components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. The legislation also established a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today, and directed the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. 24 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as Asheville Savings, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10.0 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10.0 billion or less in assets, such as the Bank, will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act increased shareholder influence over boards of directors by requiring certain public companies to give shareholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow shareholders to nominate and solicit votes for their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Asheville Savings is subject to extensive government regulation, supervision and examination by the FDIC and the NCCoB and the Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the FRB. Such regulation, supervision and examination govern the activities in which we may engage, and is intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance fund and our depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations, including the potential for increased compliance costs. On June 6, 2012, the FDIC and the other federal bank regulatory agencies issued a series of proposed rules that would revise their risk-based and leverage capital requirements and their method for calculating risk-weighted assets to make them consistent with the agreements that were reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in “Basel III: A Global Regulatory Framework for More Resilient Banks and Banking Systems” and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed rules would apply to all depository institutions, top-tier bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $500 million or more and top-tier savings and loan holding companies (“banking organizations”). Among other things, the proposed rules establish a new common equity tier 1 minimum capital requirement (4.5% of risk-weighted assets) and a higher minimum tier 1 risk-based capital requirement (6% of risk-weighted assets) and assign higher risk weightings to exposures that are more than 90 days past due or are on nonaccrual status and certain commercial real estate facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property. The proposed rules also required unrealized gains and losses on certain securities holdings to be included for purposes of calculating regulatory capital requirements. The proposed rules limit a banking organization’s capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if the banking organization does not hold a “capital conservation buffer” consisting of a specified amount of common equity tier 1 capital in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The proposed rules indicated that the final rule would become effective on January 1, 2013, and the changes set forth in the final rules will be phased in from January 1, 2013 through January 1, 2019. However, due to the volume of public comments received, the agencies did not make the final rule effective on January 1, 2013. Management will continue to monitor these and any future proposals submitted by our regulators. We may have credit risk in our investment and mortgage-backed securities portfolio. At December 31, 2012, $243.4 million, or 32.5% of our assets, consisted of investment and mortgage-backed securities, $83.7 million, or 34.4% of which were issued by, or have principal and interest payments guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. On September 7, 2008, the Federal Housing Finance 25 Table of Contents Agency placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into federal conservatorship. Although the federal government has committed substantial capital to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, these credit facilities and other capital infusions may not be adequate for their needs. If the financial support is inadequate, or if additional support is not provided when needed, these companies could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations. As a result, the future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly altered. Failure by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to honor their guarantees or obligations, or a significant restructuring of their roles, could have a significant adverse affect on the market value and cash flows of the investment and mortgage-backed securities we hold, resulting in substantial losses. We also maintain an investment in FHLB of Atlanta stock, which totaled $3.4 million at December 31, 2012. In response to unprecedented market conditions and potential future losses, the FHLB of Atlanta has implemented an initiative to preserve capital by significantly reducing the amount of its cash dividend payments, which has adversely affected our income; however, we note that such payments have recently shown an increasing trend. If the FHLB of Atlanta is unable to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements or is required to aid the remaining Federal Home Loan Banks, our holding of FHLB of Atlanta stock may be determined to be other than temporarily impaired and may require a charge to earnings. If we continue to experience reduced loan demand, we will be required to invest a significant percentage of our assets in investment securities, which typically have a lower yield than our loan portfolio. In recent years, the struggling economy has resulted in weak loan demand in our primary market area. If we continue to experience reduced loan demand, we will be required to invest a larger percentage of our assets in investment securities, which generally yield substantially less than the loans we hold in our portfolio. This would negatively impact our results of operations, which are substantially dependent on our net interest income, or the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the deposit insurance fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. In December 2009, in lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay their assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which for us totaled $3.6 million. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. Although we consider ourselves competitive in our primary market area of Buncombe, Madison, McDowell, Henderson and Transylvania Counties in North Carolina and the surrounding areas, we face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Table of Contents 