Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — Recently proposed rules regulating air emissions from oil and natural gas operations could cause us to incur increased capital expenditures and operating costs.” Insurance In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against many potential operational risks and losses that would be covered by the following policies: • Commercial General Liability; • Primary Umbrella / Excess Liability; • Workers’ Compensation and Employer’s Liability; • Control of Well; and • Automobile Liability. We maintain insurance coverage against potential losses that we believe is customary in the industry. As of December 31, 2011, we maintain commercial general liability insurance and umbrella / excess liability insurance with limits of $1 million and $25 million per occurrence, respectively, and $2 million and $25 million in the aggregate, respectively. There is no deductible for our commercial general liability insurance or our umbrella / excess liability insurance. Our general liability insurance covers us for, among other things, legal and contractual liabilities arising out of third party property damage and bodily injury, for sudden or accidental pollution liability. Our umbrella / excess liability insurance is in addition to our general liability policy and triggered if the general liability insurance policy limits are exceeded. In addition, we maintain control of well insurance with per 22 Table of Contents occurrence limits ranging from $10 million to $20 million and retentions ranging from $100,000 to $250,000. Our control of well policy insures us for blowout risks associated with drilling, completing and operating our wells, including above ground pollution. In addition, we maintain auto liability insurance with limits of $1 million per occurrence. There is no deductible for auto liability insurance. As of December 31, 2011, we do not have any insurance policies in effect that are intended to provide coverage for losses solely related to our hydraulic fracturing operations. However, we believe our general liability and excess liability insurance policies would cover third-party claims for property damage and bodily injury related to our hydraulic fracturing operations in accordance with, and subject to, the terms of such policies. These policies may not cover fines, penalties or costs and expenses related to government-mandated clean-up of pollution. In addition, these policies do not provide coverage for all liabilities, and we cannot assure you that the insurance coverage will be adequate to cover claims that may arise, or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable. A loss not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We enter into master services agreements, or MSAs, with various fracturing service providers. These MSAs allocate potential liabilities and risks between the parties. Under certain MSAs, we indemnify the hydraulic fracturing service providers for pollution and contamination of any kind, damages to or losses from wells or underground formations and damages to property, including pipelines, storage or production facilities. Under other MSAs, the service providers indemnify us for pollution or contamination that originates above the surface and is caused by the service provider’s equipment or services, unless such pollution or contamination is caused by our gross negligence or willful misconduct, and we indemnify the service providers for all other pollution or contamination that may occur during operations (including that which may result from seepage or any other uncontrolled flow of oil, natural gas or other fluids from the well), unless such pollution or contamination is caused by the service provider’s gross negligence or willful misconduct. Generally, we also agree to indemnify the service providers against claims arising from our employees’ personal injury or death to the extent that our employees are injured by such hydraulic fracturing operations, unless resulting from the service provider’s gross negligence or willful misconduct. Similarly, the service providers agree to indemnify us for liabilities arising from personal injury to or death of any of their employees, unless resulting from our gross negligence or willful misconduct. In addition, the service providers generally agree to indemnify us for loss or destruction of property or equipment that they own, unless resulting from our gross negligence or willful misconduct. In turn, we agree to indemnify the service providers for loss or destruction of property or equipment we own, unless resulting from the service provider’s gross negligence or willful misconduct. Despite the general allocation of risk discussed above, we may not succeed in enforcing such contractual allocation of risk, we may be required to enter into a MSA with terms that vary from such allocation of risk and we may face risks that fall outside any contractual allocation of risk. As a result, we may incur substantial losses that could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Environmental Matters and Regulation General Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection as well as the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things (i) require the acquisition of permits to conduct exploration, drilling and production operations; (ii) restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment or injected into formations in connection with oil and natural gas drilling and production activities; (iii) limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; (iv) require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells; and (v) impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from drilling and production operations. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of corrective or remedial obligations and the issuance of orders enjoining performance of some or all of our operations. 23 Table of Contents These laws and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and natural gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability and cash available for distributions. Additionally, the Congress and federal and state agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and natural gas industry could have a significant impact on our operating costs. The clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment, and thus any changes in environmental laws and regulations or re-interpretation of enforcement policies that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage transport, disposal, or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We may be unable to pass on any such increased compliance costs to our customers. Moreover, accidental releases or spills may occur in the course of our operations, and we may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of any such releases or spills, including any third-party claims for damage to property, natural resources or persons. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations and that continued compliance with existing requirements will not materially affect us, there is no assurance that this trend will continue in the future. The following is a summary of the more significant existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which our business operations are subject and for which compliance may have a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, results of operations or financial position. Hazardous Substances and Waste The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and comparable state statutes and their implementing regulations, regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, most states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Federal and state regulatory agencies can seek to impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for alleged non-compliance with RCRA and analogous state requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters, and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development, and production of oil or natural gas, if properly handled, are exempt from regulation as hazardous waste under Subtitle C of RCRA. These wastes, instead, are regulated under RCRA’s less stringent solid waste provisions, state laws or other federal laws. However, it is possible that certain oil and natural gas exploration, development and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. In particular, some of the materials used in hydraulic fracturing, as well as its byproducts, could be classified as hazardous wastes. Any such change could result in an increase in our costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, also known as the “Superfund” law, and comparable state laws impose joint and several and strict liability, without regard to fault or legality of the original conduct, on classes of persons considered to be responsible for the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. These persons include the current owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, prior owners or operators that owned or operated the site at the time of the release or disposal of hazardous substances and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. Under CERCLA and comparable state statutes, such persons deemed “responsible parties” may be subject to joint and several and strict liability for removing or remediating previously disposed wastes (including wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators) or property contamination (including groundwater contamination), for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. We generate materials in the course of our operations that may be regulated as hazardous substances. Despite the “petroleum exclusion” of Section 101(14) of CERCLA, which currently encompasses natural gas, we may nonetheless 24 Table of Contents handle hazardous substances within the meaning of CERCLA, or similar state statutes, in the course of our ordinary operations and, as a result, may be jointly and severally liable under CERCLA for all or part of the costs required to clean up sites at which these hazardous substances have been released into the environment. In addition, we may have liability for releases of hazardous substances at our properties by prior owners or operators or other third parties. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, is the primary federal law imposing oil spill liability. The OPA contains numerous requirements relating to the prevention of and response to petroleum releases into waters of the United States, including the requirement that operators of offshore facilities and certain onshore facilities near or crossing waterways must maintain certain significant levels of financial assurance to cover potential environmental cleanup and restoration costs. Under the OPA, strict, joint and several liability may be imposed on “responsible parties” for all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from a release, including the costs of responding to a release of oil to surface waters and natural resource damages, resulting from oil spills into or upon navigable waters, adjoining shorelines or in the exclusive economic zone of the United States. A “responsible party” includes the owner or operator of an onshore facility. The OPA establishes a liability limit for onshore facilities of $350 million. These liability limits may not apply if: a spill is caused by a party’s gross negligence or willful misconduct; the spill resulted from violation of a federal safety, construction or operating regulation; or a party fails to report a spill or to cooperate fully in a clean-up. We are also subject to analogous state statutes that impose liabilities with respect to oil spills. We currently own, lease, or operate numerous properties that have been used for oil and natural gas exploration, production and processing for many years. Although we believe that we have utilized operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons may have been released on, under or from the properties owned or leased by us, or on, under or from other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of our properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons was not under our control. These properties and the substances disposed or released on, under or from them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA, OPA and analogous state and local laws. Under such laws, we could be required to undertake response or corrective measures, which could include removal of previously disposed substances and wastes, cleanup of contaminated property or performance of remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. Water Discharges The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (also known as the Clean Water Act), the State Drinking Water Act, or the SDWA, the OPA and analogous state laws, impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the unauthorized discharge of pollutants, including oil and hazardous substances, into navigable waters of the United States, as well as state waters. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by EPA or an analogous state agency. These laws and regulations also prohibit certain activity in wetlands unless authorized by a permit issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The EPA has also adopted regulations requiring certain oil and natural gas exploration and production facilities to obtain individual permits or coverage under general permits for storm water discharges. Costs may be associated with the treatment of wastewater or developing and implementing storm water pollution prevention plans, as well as for monitoring and sampling the storm water runoff from certain of our facilities. Some states also maintain groundwater protection programs that require permits for discharges or operations that may impact groundwater conditions. The underground injection of fluids is subject to permitting and other requirements under state laws and regulation. Obtaining permits has the potential to delay the development of natural gas and oil projects. These same regulatory programs also limit the total volume of water that can be discharged, hence limiting the rate of development, and require us to incur compliance costs. These laws and any implementing regulations provide for administrative, civil and criminal penalties for any unauthorized discharges of oil and other substances in reportable quantities and may impose substantial potential liability for the costs of removal, remediation and damages. Pursuant to these laws and regulations, we may be required to obtain and maintain 25 Table of Contents approvals or permits for the discharge of wastewater or storm water and the underground injection of fluids and are required to develop and implement spill prevention, control and countermeasure plans, also referred to as “SPCC plans,” in connection with on-site storage of significant quantities of oil. We maintain all required discharge permits necessary to conduct our operations, and we believe we are in substantial compliance with their terms. We routinely apply hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our oil and natural gas drilling and completion programs. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemical additives under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and natural gas production. Due to public concerns raised regarding the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on groundwater quality, legislative and regulatory efforts at the federal level and in some states have been initiated to require or make more stringent the permitting and compliance requirements for hydraulic fracturing operations. Congress continues to consider legislation to amend the SDWA to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the definition of “underground injection” and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process. Disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. Members of Congress have called upon the U.S. Government Accountability Office to investigate how hydraulic fracturing might adversely affect water resources. The EPA recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the federal SDWA’s Underground Injection Control (“UIC”) Program by posting a new requirement on its website that requires facilities to obtain permits to use diesel fuel in hydraulic fracturing operations. The U.S. Energy Policy Act of 2005, which exempts hydraulic fracturing from regulation under the SDWA, prohibits the use of diesel fuel in the fracturing process without a UIC permit. Although the EPA has yet to take any action to enforce or implement this newly asserted regulatory authority, industry groups have filed suit challenging the EPA’s recent decisions as a “final agency action” and, thus, violative of the notice-and-comment rulemaking procedures of the Administrative Procedures Act. At the same time, the EPA has commenced a multi-year study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, the results of which are anticipated to be available by late 2012. Several states have also proposed or adopted legislative or regulatory restrictions on hydraulic fracturing, including states in which we operate. For example, Texas passed a law in June 2011 requiring its Railroad Commission, or RRC, to establish a disclosure process for hydraulic fracturing fluids. Effective February 1, 2012, the chemical components used in the hydraulic fracturing process, as well as the volume of water used, must be disclosed to the RRC and the public. In addition, at least three local governments in Texas have imposed temporary moratoria on drilling permits within city limits so that local ordinances may be reviewed to assess their adequacy to address such activities. Finally, on October 20, 2011, the EPA announced its plan to propose federal pre-treatment standards for wastewater generated during the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing stimulation requires the use of a significant volume of water with some resulting “flowback,” as well as “produced water.” The EPA asserts that this water may contain radioactive materials and other pollutants and, therefore, may deteriorate drinking water quality if not properly treated before discharge. The Clean Water Act prohibits the discharge of wastewater into federal or state waters. Thus, “flowback” and “produced water” must either be injected into permitted disposal wells or transported to public or private treatment facilities for treatment. The EPA asserts that due to some contaminants in hydraulic fracturing wastewater, most treatment facilities are unable to properly treat the wastewater before introducing it into public waters. If adopted, the new pre-treatment rules will require shale gas operations to pre-treat wastewater before transferring it to treatment facilities. Proposed rules are expected in 2013 for coalbed methane and 2014 for shale gas. We cannot predict the impact that these standards may have on our business at this time, but these standards could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adoption of these or any new laws or regulations placing significant restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on our exploration and production activities, which could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. 26 Table of Contents Air Emissions The federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions standards, construction and operating permitting programs and the imposition of other compliance requirements. The EPA has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of air pollutants at specified sources. In particular, on August 23, 2011, pursuant to a court-ordered consent decree, the EPA published a proposed rule establishing new emissions standards to reduce VOC and sulfur dioxide emissions from several types of processes and equipment used in the oil and gas industry, including a 95 percent reduction in VOCs emitted during construction or modification of hydraulically fractured wells. The consent decree requires the EPA to take final action by April 3, 2012, following a public comment period, which has been completed. These proposed standards, should they be adopted, as well as any future laws and regulations implementing those laws may require us to obtain pre-approval for the expansion or modification of existing facilities or the construction of new facilities expected to produce or significantly increase air emissions, obtain and strictly comply with stringent air permit requirements or utilize specific equipment or technologies to control emissions. The need to obtain permits has the potential to delay the development of oil and natural gas projects. These laws and regulations also may increase the costs of compliance for some facilities we own or operate, and federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the federal Clean Air Act and associated state laws and regulations. Although we may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the next few years for air pollution control equipment or other air emissions-related issues, we do not believe that such requirements will have a material adverse effect on our operations. Climate Change In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” (“GHGs”) present an endangerment to human health and the environment, because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In response to its endangerment finding, the EPA recently adopted two sets of rules regarding possible future regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act. The motor vehicle rule, which was finalized in April 2010 and became effective in January 2011, purports to limit emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles manufactured in model years 2012-2016; however, it does not require immediate reductions in GHG emissions. A recent rulemaking proposal by the EPA and the Department of Transportation’s National Highway Traffic Safety Administration seeks to expand the motor vehicle rule to include vehicles manufactured in model years 2017-2025. The EPA adopted the stationary source rule (or the “tailoring rule”) in May 2010, and it also became effective January 2011, although it remains the subject of several pending lawsuits filed by industry groups. The tailoring rule establishes new GHG emissions thresholds that determine when stationary sources must obtain permits under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or PSD, and Title V programs of the Clean Air Act. The permitting requirements of the PSD program apply only to newly constructed or modified major sources. Obtaining a PSD permit requires a source to install best available control technology, or BACT, for those regulated pollutants that are emitted in certain quantities. Phase I of the tailoring rule, which became effective on January 2, 2011, requires projects already triggering PSD permitting that are also increasing GHG emissions by more than 75,000 tons per year to comply with BACT rules for their GHG emissions. Phase II of the tailoring rule, which became effective on July 1, 2011, requires preconstruction permits using BACT for new projects that emit 100,000 tons of GHG emissions per year or existing facilities that make major modifications increasing GHG emissions by more than 75,000 tons per year. Phase III of the tailoring rule, which is expected to go into effect in 2013, will seek to streamline the permitting process and permanently exclude smaller sources from the permitting process. Finally, in October 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the U.S., including natural gas liquids fractionators and local natural gas/distribution companies, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. In November 2010, the EPA published a final rule expanding the GHG reporting rule to include onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution facilities. This rule requires reporting of GHG emissions from such 27 Table of Contents facilities on an annual basis, with reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. The EPA also plans to implement GHG emissions standards for power plants in May 2012 and for refineries in November 2012. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security (ACES) Act that, among other things, would have established a cap-and-trade system to regulate greenhouse gas emissions and would have required an 80% reduction in GHG emissions from sources within the United States between 2012 and 2050. The ACES Act did not pass the Senate, however, and so was not enacted by the 111th Congress. The United States Congress is likely to consider again a climate change bill in the future. In addition, one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of GHGs or otherwise limits emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to monitor and report on GHG emissions or reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations, and such requirements also could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur in areas where we operate, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. National Environmental Policy Act Oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activities on federal lands are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act or NEPA. NEPA requires federal agencies, including the Department of Interior, to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an Environmental Assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed Environmental Impact Statement that may be made available for public review and comment. Currently, we have minimal exploration and production activities on federal lands. However, for those current activities as well as for future or proposed exploration and development plans on federal lands governmental permits or authorizations that are subject to the requirements of NEPA are required. This process has the potential to delay the development of oil and natural gas projects. Endangered Species Act Environmental laws such as the Endangered Species Act or ESA, may impact exploration, development and production activities on public or private lands. The ESA provides broad protection for species of fish, wildlife and plants that are listed as threatened or endangered in the U.S., and prohibits taking of endangered species. Federal agencies are required to insure that any action authorized, funded or carried out by them is not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of listed species or modify their critical habitat. Although some of our facilities may be located in areas that are designated as habitat for endangered or threatened species, we believe that we are in substantial compliance with the ESA. However, the designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species could cause us to incur additional costs or become subject to operating restrictions or bans in the affected areas. OSHA We are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act or OSHA, and comparable state statutes whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard, the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act and implementing regulations, and similar state statutes and regulations require that we organize and/or disclose information about 28 Table of Contents hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local governmental authorities and citizens. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety. Other Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry The oil and natural gas industry is extensively regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. Legislation affecting the oil and natural gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Additionally, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations that are binding on the oil and natural gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Although the regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases our cost of doing business and, consequently, affects our profitability, these burdens generally do not affect us any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the oil and natural gas industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. Legislation continues to be introduced in Congress, and the development of regulations continues in the Department of Homeland Security and other agencies concerning the security of industrial facilities, including oil and natural gas facilities. Our operations may be subject to such laws and regulations. Presently, we do not believe that compliance with these laws will have a material adverse impact on us. Drilling and Production Our operations are subject to various types of regulation at federal, state and local levels. These types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations. Most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which we operate also regulate one or more of the following: • the location of wells; • the method of drilling and casing wells; • the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; • the plugging and abandoning of wells; and • notice to surface owners and other third parties. State laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and natural gas properties. Some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration, while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce our interest in the unitized properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and natural gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. These laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and natural gas we can produce from our wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill. Moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, natural gas and NGLs within its jurisdiction. Natural Gas Regulation The availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of natural gas. The interstate transportation and sale for resale of natural gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to natural gas pipeline transportation. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s regulations for interstate natural gas transmission in some circumstances may also affect the intrastate transportation of natural gas. 29 Table of Contents Although natural gas prices are currently unregulated, Congress historically has been active in the area of natural gas regulation. We cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate natural gas might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by Congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the operations of our properties. Sales of condensate and NGLs are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. State Regulation The various states regulate the drilling for, and the production, gathering and sale of, oil and natural gas, including imposing severance taxes and requirements for obtaining drilling permits. For example, the baseline Texas severance tax on oil and gas is 4.6% of the market value of oil produced and 7.5% of the market value of gas produced and saved. A number of exemptions from or reductions of the severance tax on oil and gas production is provided by the State of Texas which effectively lowers the cost of production. States also regulate the method of developing new fields, the spacing and operation of wells and the prevention of waste of natural gas resources. States may regulate rates of production and may establish maximum daily production allowables from natural gas wells based on market demand or resource conservation, or both. States do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct economic regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. The effect of these regulations may be to limit the amount of natural gas that may be produced from our wells and to limit the number of wells or locations we can drill. The petroleum industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws. Some of those laws relate to resource conservation and equal employment opportunity. We do not believe that compliance with these laws will have a material adverse effect on us. Employees The directors and officers of our general partner manage our operations and activities. However, neither we, nor our subsidiaries, nor our general partner have employees. We and our general partner have entered into an omnibus agreement with Memorial Resource pursuant to which Memorial Resource performs services for us and our general partner, including the operation of our properties. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence — Omnibus Agreement.” As of December 31, 2011, Memorial Resource had 155 employees. None of these employees are represented by labor unions or covered by any collective bargaining agreement. We believe that Memorial Resource’s relations with its employees are satisfactory. Our general partner also contracts on our behalf for the services of independent consultants involved in land, engineering, regulatory, accounting, financial and other disciplines as needed. Offices Our principal executive office is located at 1301 McKinney Street, Suite 2100, Houston, Texas 77010. Our main telephone number is (713) 588-8300. Available Information Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8–K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) are made available free of charge on our website at www.memorialpp.com as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These documents are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov or you may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. Our website also includes our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charter of our audit committee. No information from either the SEC’s website or our website is incorporated herein by reference. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a business similar to ours. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we may not be able to pay distributions on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline and our unitholders could lose all or part of their investment. Other risks are also described in “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units, following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our general partner and its affiliates. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.4750 per unit or any other amount. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserves established by our general partner to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, including acquisitions of additional oil and natural gas properties, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders. The amount of cash we distribute on our units principally depends on the cash we generate from operations, which depends on, among other things: • the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce; • the prices at which we sell our oil, natural gas and NGL production; • the amount and timing of settlements of our commodity derivatives; • the level of our operating costs, including maintenance capital expenditures and payments to our general partner and its affiliates; and • the level of our interest expense, which depends on the amount of our indebtedness and the interest payable thereon. For a description of additional restrictions and factors that may affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Unless we replace the oil and natural gas reserves we produce, our revenues and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We will be unable to sustain our minimum quarterly distribution without substantial capital expenditures that maintain our asset base. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and therefore our cash flow and ability to make distributions are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves. Our production decline rates may be significantly higher than currently estimated if our wells do not produce as expected. Further, our decline rate may change when we drill additional wells or make acquisitions. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at economically acceptable terms, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. 31 Table of Contents Our acquisition and development operations require substantial capital expenditures. The development and production of our oil and natural gas reserves requires substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Further, if the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decreases, or our revenues decrease, as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices or for any other reason, we may not be able to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at the expected levels necessary to generate cash sufficient to make distributions to our unitholders. A decline in, or sustained low levels of, oil or natural gas prices will cause a decline in our cash flow from operations, which could cause us to reduce our distributions or cease paying distributions altogether. Lower oil and natural gas prices may decrease our revenues and thus cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been extremely volatile. For example, for the five years ended December 31, 2011, the NYMEX-WTI oil future price ranged from a high of $145.29 per Bbl to a low of $33.87 per Bbl, while the NYMEX-Henry Hub natural gas future price ranged from a high of $13.58 per MMBtu to a low of $2.51 per MMBtu. From January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011, the NYMEX-WTI oil future price ranged from a high of $113.93 per Bbl to a low of $75.67 per Bbl, while the NYMEX-Henry Hub natural gas future price ranged from a high of $4.85 per MMBtu to a low of $2.98 per MMBtu. A significant decrease in commodity prices may cause us to reduce the distributions we pay to our unitholders or to cease paying distributions. Domestic natural gas prices have recently been at relatively historic low levels, due to an oversupply of natural gas in the United States. If natural gas prices remain at these low levels for a sustained period, our cash flow and revenues will be affected, and we may not be able to continue paying distributions to our unitholders. If commodity prices decline and remain depressed for a prolonged period, a significant portion of our development projects may become uneconomic and cause write downs of the value of our oil and natural gas properties, which may adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Significantly lower oil prices, or sustained lower natural gas prices, would render many of our development and production projects uneconomical and result in a downward adjustment of our reserve estimates, which would reduce our borrowing base and our ability to pay distributions or fund our operations. Further, deteriorating commodity prices may cause us to recognize impairments in the value of our oil and natural gas properties. In addition, if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for impairments. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken, our ability to borrow funds under our revolving credit facility and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. An increase in the differential between the NYMEX or other benchmark prices of oil and natural gas and the wellhead price we receive for our production could significantly reduce our cash available for distribution and adversely affect our financial condition. The prices that we receive for our oil and natural gas production often reflect a regional discount, based on the location of production, to the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX, that are used for calculating hedge positions. These discounts, if significant, could reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders and adversely affect our financial condition. Our hedging strategy may not effectively mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility from our cash flows, and our hedging activities could result in cash losses and may limit potential gains. The prices and quantities at which we enter into commodity derivative contracts covering our production in the future will be dependent upon oil and natural gas prices and price expectations at the time we enter into these 32 Table of Contents transactions, which may be substantially higher or lower than current or future oil and natural gas prices. Accordingly, our price hedging strategy may not protect us from significant declines in oil and natural gas prices received for our future production. Many of the derivative contracts to which we will be a party will require us to make cash payments to the extent the applicable index exceeds a predetermined price, thereby limiting our ability to realize the benefit of increases in oil and natural gas prices. If our actual production and sales for any period are less than our hedged production and sales for that period (including reductions in production due to operational delays) or if we are unable to perform our drilling activities as planned, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our hedging obligations without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, which may materially impact our liquidity. Our hedging transactions expose us to counterparty credit risk. Our hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract. Disruptions in the financial markets or other unforeseen events could lead to sudden changes in a counterparty’s liquidity, which could impair its ability to perform under the terms of the derivative contract and, accordingly, prevent us from realizing the benefit of the derivative contract. Our estimated proved reserves and future production rates are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our estimated reserves. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering is complex, requiring subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future production levels and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. For example, if the prices used in our reserve reports had been $10.00 less per barrel for oil and $1.00 less per MMBtu for natural gas, then the standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2011, excluding the effects of our commodity derivative contracts, would have decreased by $126.8 million, from $378.3 million to $251.5 million. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves shown in this report, or standardized measure, may not be the current market value of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves. In accordance with rules established by the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the 12-month average oil and gas index prices, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average for the first-day-of-the-month price for each month and costs in effect on the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the properties. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate, and future net present value estimates using then current prices and costs may be significantly less than the current estimate. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting requirements, which is required by the FASB, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Developing and producing oil and natural gas are costly and high-risk activities with many uncertainties. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for oil and natural gas can be uneconomic, not only from dry holes, but also from 33 Table of Contents productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. Any of our development and production operations may incur unscheduled costs or otherwise be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: • high costs, shortages or delivery delays of rigs, equipment, labor or other services; • composition of sour natural gas, including sulfur, carbon dioxide and other diluent content; • unexpected operational events and conditions; • failure of down hole equipment and tubulars; • loss of wellbore mechanical integrity; • hydrocarbon or oilfield chemical spills; • adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; • facility or equipment malfunctions and equipment failures or accidents, including acceleration of deterioration of our facilities and equipment due to the highly corrosive nature of sour natural gas; • loss of drilling fluid circulation; • fires, blowouts, surface craterings and explosions; and • surface spills or underground migration due to uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, formation water or well fluids. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Many of our properties are in areas that may have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells. Many of our properties are in areas that may have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling. The owners of leasehold interests lying contiguous or adjacent to or adjoining any of our properties could take actions, such as drilling additional wells, which could adversely affect our operations. When a new well is completed and produced, the pressure differential in the vicinity of the well causes the migration of reservoir fluids towards the new wellbore (and potentially away from existing wellbores). As a result, the drilling and production of these potential locations could cause a depletion of our proved reserves, and may inhibit our ability to further exploit and develop our reserves. Our expectations for future development activities are planned to be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. We have identified drilling, recompletion and development locations and prospects for future drilling, recompletion and development. These drilling, recompletion and development locations represent a significant part of our future drilling and enhanced recovery opportunity plans. Our ability to drill, recomplete and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, the generation of additional seismic or geological information, the availability of drilling rigs, and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we cannot be certain of the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of estimated proved reserves or meet our expectations for success. As such, our actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from our current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on our estimated reserves, financial condition and results of operations, and as a result, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 34 Table of Contents Shortages of rigs, equipment and crews could delay our operations, increase our costs and delay forecasted revenue. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally increase the demand for rigs, equipment and crews and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, development equipment, services and personnel. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced development crews and oil field equipment and services could restrict Memorial Resource’s ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations that it currently has planned relating to the fields where our properties are located. Any delay in the development of new wells or a significant increase in development costs could reduce our revenues and reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and ability to pay or increase distributions will be limited. Our ability to grow and to increase distributions to our unitholders depends in part on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in available cash per unit. We may be unable to make such acquisitions because we are: • unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with their owners; • unable to obtain financing for such acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or • outbid by competitors. If we are unable to acquire properties containing estimated proved reserves, our total level of estimated proved reserves will decline as a result of our production, and we will be limited in our ability to increase or possibly even to maintain our level of cash distributions to our unitholders. Any acquisitions we complete will be subject to substantial risks. One of our growth strategies is to acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves from time to time. Even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will increase available cash per unit, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in available cash per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • the validity of our assumptions about estimated proved reserves, future production, revenues, capital expenditures, operating expenses and costs; • an inability to successfully integrate the assets or businesses we acquire; • a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; • a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; • the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which any indemnity we receive is inadequate; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • mistaken assumptions about the overall cost of equity or debt; • an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets; and • the occurrence of other significant changes, such as impairment of oil and natural gas properties, goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. 35 Table of Contents Our decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic data and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition, given time constraints imposed by sellers. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Adverse developments in our operating areas would reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our properties are located in South and East Texas. An adverse development in the oil and natural gas business of these geographic areas, such as in our ability to attract and retain field personnel, could have an impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We are dependent upon a small number of significant customers for a substantial portion of our production sales and we may experience a temporary decline in revenues and production if we lose any of those customers. We had three individual customers that each accounted for 10% or more of total reported revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. To the extent any of these significant customers reduce the volume they purchase from us, we could experience a temporary interruption in sales of, or may receive a lower price for, our production, and our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline, which could adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders at the then-current distribution rate or at all. See “Item 1. Business — Marketing and Major Customers.” Additionally, a failure by any of these significant customers, or any purchasers of our production, to perform their payment obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. To the extent that purchasers of our production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there could be an increased risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to us. If for any reason we were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of our production were uncollectible, we would recognize a charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss and could suffer a material reduction in our liquidity and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We may experience a financial loss if Memorial Resource is unable to sell, or receive payment for, a significant portion of our oil and natural gas production. Under our omnibus agreement, Memorial Resource handles sales of our natural gas, oil and NGL production on our behalf, which depends upon the demand for natural gas, oil and NGLs from potential purchasers of our production. In recent years, a number of energy marketing and trading companies have discontinued their marketing and trading operations, which has significantly reduced the number of potential purchasers for our production. This reduction in potential customers has reduced overall market liquidity. If any one or more of our significant customers reduces the volume of oil and natural gas production it purchases and other customers to sell those volumes to are unable to be found, then the volume of our production sold on our behalf could be reduced, and we could experience a material decline in cash available for distribution. In addition, a failure by any of these companies, or any purchasers of our production, to perform their payment obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. To the extent that purchasers of our production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there could be 36 Table of Contents an increased risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to us. If for any reason we were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of our production were uncollectible, we would recognize a charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss and could suffer a material reduction in our liquidity and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive with respect to acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and natural gas, and securing equipment and trained personnel. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and natural gas but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and natural gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial, technical or personnel resources permit. In addition, there is substantial competition for investment capital in the oil and natural gas industry. These larger companies may have a greater ability to continue development activities during periods of low oil and natural gas prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Furthermore, we may not be able to aggregate sufficient quantities of production to compete with larger companies that are able to sell greater volumes of production to intermediaries, thereby reducing the realized prices attributable to our production. Any inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We may incur additional debt to enable us to pay our quarterly distributions. We may be unable to pay the minimum quarterly distribution or the then-current distribution rate without borrowing under our revolving credit facility or otherwise. If we use borrowings to pay distributions to our unitholders for an extended period of time rather than to fund capital expenditures and other activities relating to our operations, we may be unable to maintain or grow our business. Such a curtailment of our business activities, combined with our payment of principal and interest on our future indebtedness incurred to pay these distributions, will reduce our cash available for distribution on our units and will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we borrow to pay distributions to our unitholders during periods of low commodity prices and commodity prices remain low, we may have to reduce our distribution to our unitholders to avoid excessive leverage. Our revolving credit facility has restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements may restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities or to pay distributions to our unitholders. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our future ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and other events or circumstances beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any provisions of our credit facility that are not cured or waived within the appropriate time periods provided in our credit facility, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders will be inhibited and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. 37 Table of Contents Our revolving credit facility allows us to borrow in an amount up to the borrowing base, which is primarily based on the estimated value of our oil and natural gas properties and our commodity derivative contracts as determined semi-annually by our lenders in their sole discretion. Our borrowing base is subject to redetermination on at least a semi-annual basis based on an engineering report with respect to our estimated natural gas, oil and NGL reserves, which takes into account the prevailing natural gas, oil and NGL prices at such time, as adjusted for the impact of our commodity derivative contracts. A future decline in commodity prices could result in a redetermination that lowers our borrowing base at that time and, in such case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness outstanding in excess of the borrowing base. If we are unable to repay any borrowings in excess of a decreased borrowing base, we would be in default and no longer able to make any distributions to our unitholders. Our business depends in part on pipelines, gathering systems and processing facilities owned by others. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities could interfere with our ability to market our oil and natural gas production. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and other transportation methods, gathering systems and processing facilities owned by third parties. The amount of oil and natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. Our access to transportation options can also be affected by U.S. federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or transportation or processing facility capacity could reduce our ability to market our oil and natural gas production and harm our business. The operation of our properties is largely dependent on the ability of Memorial Resource’s employees. The continuing production from our properties, and to some extent the marketing of our production, is dependent upon the ability of the operators of our properties. Memorial Resource operates substantially all of our properties, either directly as operator or, where we are the operator of record, on our behalf under the omnibus agreement. As of December 31, 2011, based on proved reserve volumes, Memorial Resource operated on our behalf 65%, Memorial Resource operated 29% and third parties operated 6% of the wells and properties in which we have interests. The success and timing of drilling and development activities on such properties, depend upon a number of factors, including: • the nature and timing of drilling and operational activities; • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • Memorial Resource’s or the operators’ expertise and financial resources; • the approval of other participants in such properties; and • the selection and application of suitable technology. If Memorial Resource or the applicable third party operator is unable to conduct drilling and development activities on our properties on a timely basis, we may be unable to increase our production or offset normal production declines, or we will be required to write off the estimated proved reserves attributable thereto, any of which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations and our cash available for distribution. Any such write-offs of our reserves could reduce our ability to borrow money and could adversely impact our ability to pay distributions on the common units. 38 Table of Contents We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our oil and natural gas development and production operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. To conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our operations, including any evolving interpretation and enforcement by governmental authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our oil and natural gas development and production operations are also subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, health and safety aspects of our operations, or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations applicable to our operations including the acquisition of a permit before conducting regulated drilling activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often requiring difficult and costly compliance or corrective actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, and the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. See “Item 1. Business — Environmental Matters and Regulation” and “— Other Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. In addition, we may experience delays in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits, which may delay or interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue. Under certain environmental laws that impose strict as well as joint and several liability, we may be required to remediate contaminated properties currently or formerly operated by us or facilities of third parties that received waste generated by our operations regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations. Moreover, public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years. The trend of more expansive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations applied to the crude oil and natural gas industry could continue, resulting in increased costs of doing business and consequently affecting profitability. To the extent laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restricts drilling or imposes more stringent and costly operating, waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements, our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases,” or GHGs, including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. In response to such studies, the U.S. Congress is actively considering legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs. One bill approved by the U.S. House of Representatives in June 2009, known as the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, would have required an 80% reduction in emissions of GHGs from sources within the U.S. between 2012 and 2050 but was not approved by 39 Table of Contents the U.S. Senate in the 2009-2010 legislative session. The U.S. Congress is likely to continue to consider similar bills. Moreover, almost half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs or other mechanisms. Most cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances corresponding with their annual emissions of GHGs. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. As the number of GHG emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. Some states have enacted renewable portfolio standards, which require utilities to purchase a certain percentage of their energy from renewable fuel sources. In addition, in December 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment, because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In response to its endangerment finding, the EPA recently adopted two sets of rules regarding possible future regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act. The motor vehicle rule, which was finalized in April 2010 and became effective in January 2011, purports to limit emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles manufactured in model years 2012-2016; however, it does not require immediate reductions in GHG emissions. A recent rulemaking proposal by the EPA and the Department of Transportation’s National Highway Traffic Safety Administration seeks to expand the motor vehicle rule to include vehicles manufactured in model years 2017-2025. The EPA adopted the stationary source rule (or the “tailoring rule”) in May 2010, and it also became effective January 2011, although it remains the subject of several pending lawsuits filed by industry groups. The tailoring rule establishes new GHG emissions thresholds that determine when stationary sources must obtain permits under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or PSD, and Title V programs of the Clean Air Act. The permitting requirements of the PSD program apply only to newly constructed or modified major sources. Obtaining a PSD permit requires a source to install best available control technology, or BACT, for those regulated pollutants that are emitted in certain quantities. Phase I of the tailoring rule, which became effective on January 2, 2011, requires projects already triggering PSD permitting that are also increasing GHG emissions by more than 75,000 tons per year to comply with BACT rules for their GHG emissions. Phase II of the tailoring rule, which became effective on July 1, 2011, requires preconstruction permits using BACT for new projects that emit 100,000 tons of GHG emissions per year or existing facilities that make major modifications increasing GHG emissions by more than 75,000 tons per year. Phase III of the tailoring rule, which is expected to go into effect in 2013, will seek to streamline the permitting process and permanently exclude smaller sources from the permitting process. Finally, in October 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the U.S., including natural gas liquids fractionators and local natural gas/distribution companies, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. In November 2010, the EPA published a final rule expanding the GHG reporting rule to include onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution facilities. This rule requires reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities on an annual basis, with reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. The EPA also plans to implement GHG emissions standards for power plants in May 2012 and for refineries in November 2012. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory requirements. Any GHG emissions legislation or regulatory programs applicable to power plants or refineries could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 1. Business — Environmental Matters and Regulation” and “— Other Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. 40 Table of Contents The third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex federal, state and other laws that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our business. The operations of the third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations that require obtaining and maintaining numerous permits, approvals and certifications from various federal, state and local government authorities. These third parties may incur substantial costs in order to comply with existing laws and regulations. If existing laws and regulations governing such third-party services are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to their operations, these changes may affect the costs that we pay for such services. Similarly, a failure to comply with such laws and regulations by the third parties on whom we rely could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. See “Item 1. Business — Environmental Matters and Regulation” and “— Other Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect the third parties on whom we rely. Derivatives reform legislation and related regulations could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. The July 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”) provides for federal oversight of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market and mandates that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, adopt rules or regulations implementing the Act and providing definitions of terms used in the Act. The Act establishes margin requirements and requires clearing and trade execution practices for certain market participants and may result in certain market participants needing to curtail or cease their derivatives activities. The CFTC has proposed a large number of rules to implement the Act in multiple rulemaking proceedings and has finalized a number of such rules, including a rule imposing position limits (the “Position Limit Rule”). However, many of the regulations necessary to implement the Act and define terms used in the Act have not been adopted. As a result, we do not yet know if we will be required to comply with margin requirements and clearing and trade-execution requirements imposed by the Act or if certain of our counterparties will be required to spin off some of our derivatives contracts to separate entities, which may not be as credit-worthy as our current counterparties. In addition, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, two industry associations, have filed a suit in federal court in the District of Columbia against the CFTC challenging the Position Limit Rule. The Act and, to the extent that such challenge to the Position Limit Rule is unsuccessful, the Position Limit Rule, and any other new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures and fund unitholder distributions. Finally, the Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity contracts related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays, and adversely affect our production. We routinely apply hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our U.S. onshore oil and natural-gas drilling and completion programs. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions; however, the EPA recently asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel as an additive under the Safe Drinking Water Act and has begun the process of drafting guidance documents related to this newly asserted regulatory authority. In addition, legislation has been introduced before Congress, 41 Table of Contents called the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act, to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Texas adopted a law in June 2011 requiring disclosure to the RRC and the public of certain information regarding the components, as well as the volume of water, used in the hydraulic fracturing process. In addition to state law, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. In the event state, local, or municipal legal restrictions are adopted in areas where we are currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct operations, we may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from the drilling of wells. There are also certain governmental reviews either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic-fracturing practices, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Furthermore, a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014. In addition, the U.S. Department of Energy is conducting an investigation into practices the agency could recommend to better protect the environment from drilling using hydraulic-fracturing completion methods. Also, the U.S. Department of the Interior is considering disclosure requirements or other mandates for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. Additionally, certain members of Congress have called upon the U.S. Government Accountability Office to investigate how hydraulic fracturing might adversely affect water resources, the SEC to investigate the natural-gas industry and any possible misleading of investors or the public regarding the economic feasibility of pursuing natural gas deposits in shale formations by means of hydraulic fracturing, and the U.S. Energy Information Administration to provide a better understanding of that agency’s estimates regarding natural gas reserves, including reserves from shale formations, as well as uncertainties associated with those estimates. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanism. Furthermore, on August 23, 2011, the EPA published a proposed rule in the Federal Register to establish new emissions standards to reduce volatile organic compounds (“VOC”) emissions from several types of processes and equipment used in the oil and gas industry, including a 95 percent reduction in VOCs emitted during the construction or modification of hydraulically-fractured wells. Finally, on October 20, 2011, the EPA announced its plan to propose federal pre-treatment standards for wastewater generated during the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing stimulation requires the use of a significant volume of water with some resulting “flowback,” as well as “produced water.” The EPA asserts that this water may contain radioactive materials and other pollutants and, therefore, may deteriorate drinking water quality if not properly treated before discharge. The Clean Water Act prohibits the discharge of wastewater into federal or state waters. Thus “flowback” and “produced water” must either be injected into permitted disposal wells or transported to public or private treatment facilities for treatment. The EPA asserts that due to some contaminants in hydraulic fracturing wastewater, most treatment facilities are unable to properly treat the wastewater before introducing it into public waters. If adopted, the new pretreatment rules will require shale gas operations to pretreat wastewater before transferring it to treatment facilities. If these or any other new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted at the state and local level, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from dense subsurface rock formations and, in the event of local prohibitions against commercial 42 Table of Contents production of natural gas, may preclude our ability to drill wells. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA or other federal agencies, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements and result in permitting delays as well as potential increases in costs. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. Recently proposed rules regulating air emissions from oil and natural gas operations could cause us to incur increased capital expenditures and operating costs. On August 23, 2011, the EPA published a proposed rule in the Federal Register that would establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations. Specifically, the EPA’s proposed rule package includes New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and VOCs and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with oil and natural gas production and processing activities. The EPA’s proposal requires the reduction of VOC emissions from oil and natural gas production facilities by mandating the use of “green completions” for hydraulic fracturing, which requires the operator to recover rather than vent the gas and natural gas liquids that come to the surface during completion of the fracturing process. The proposed rule also establishes specific requirements regarding emissions from compressors, dehydrators, storage tanks, and other production equipment. In addition, the rule establishes new leak detection requirements for natural gas processing plants. The EPA completed its public comment and public hearing period and must take final action on them by April 3, 2012. If finalized, these rules could require a number of modifications to our operations including the installation of new equipment. Compliance with such rules could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity and incur debt. Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. Also, as with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions to our unitholders and the implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank similar yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price, our ability to issue additional equity or incur debt, and the cost to us of any such issuance or incurrence. Expenses not covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain insurance coverage against potential losses that we believe is customary in the industry. However, these policies may not cover all liabilities, claims, fines, penalties or costs and expenses that we may incur in connection with our business and operations, including those related to environmental claims. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable. A loss not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our general partner and its affiliates own a controlling interest in us and will have conflicts of interest with, and owe limited fiduciary duties to, us, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. Our general partner has control over all decisions related to our operations. As of March 16, 2012, Memorial Resource owns an approximate aggregate 42% of our outstanding common units and all of our subordinated 43 Table of Contents units, and 100% of the voting membership interests in our general partner are owned by Memorial Resource. The Funds, in turn, collectively own 100% of Memorial Resource. The directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to the owners of our general partner. However, certain directors and officers of our general partner are directors and/or officers of affiliates of our general partner (including Memorial Resource, the Funds and NGP), and certain of our general partner’s executive officers and directors will continue to have economic interests, investments and other economic incentives in the Funds and other NGP-affiliated entities. Conflicts of interest may arise in the future between our general partner and its affiliates (including Memorial Resource, the Funds and NGP), on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders and us. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. These potential conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Memorial Resource, the Funds or NGP to pursue a business strategy that favors us. The directors and officers of Memorial Resource, the Funds and their respective affiliates (including NGP) have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of their respective equity holders, which may be contrary to our interests; • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as its owner, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; • Memorial Resource, the Funds and their affiliates (including NGP) are not limited in their ability to compete with us, including with respect to future acquisition opportunities, and are under no obligation to offer assets to us; • except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; • many of the officers and directors of our general partner who provide services to us devote time to affiliates of our general partner, including Memorial Resource, the Funds, and/or NGP, and may be compensated for services rendered to such affiliates; • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, reductions, and restrictions, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. By purchasing common units, unitholders are consenting to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of our drilling program and related capital expenditures, asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership interests, other investments, including investment capital expenditures in other partnerships with which our general partner is or may become affiliated, and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; • our general partner determines whether a cash expenditure is classified as a growth capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner, the amount of adjusted operating surplus in any given period and the ability of the subordinated units to convert into common units; • we and our general partner have entered into an omnibus agreement with Memorial Resource, pursuant to which among other things, Memorial Resource operates our assets and performs other management, administrative, and operating services for us and our general partner; • our general partner is entitled to determine which costs, including allocated overhead, incurred by it and its affiliates, including Memorial Resource, are reimbursable by us, which will include salary, 44 Table of Contents bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to persons who perform services for us or on our behalf, and expenses allocated to our general partner by its affiliates; • our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; • our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $30.5 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to our general partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights; • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants, or others to perform services for us; • our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; • our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; and • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including Memorial Resource, the Funds and NGP. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Memorial Resource, the Funds and other affiliates of our general partner are not limited in their ability to compete with us, which could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses. Our partnership agreement provides that Memorial Resource and the Funds and their respective affiliates (including NGP and its affiliates’ portfolio investments) are not restricted from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, Memorial Resource and the Funds and their respective affiliates may acquire, develop or dispose of additional oil and natural gas properties or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or develop any of those assets. NGP and the Funds are established participants in the oil and natural gas industry, and have resources greater than ours, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with them with respect to commercial activities as well as for potential acquisitions. As a result, competition from these affiliates could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Neither we nor our general partner have any employees and we rely solely on the employees of Memorial Resource to manage our business. The management team of Memorial Resource, which includes the individuals who manage us, also perform substantially similar services for Memorial Resource and its assets, and thus is not solely focused on our business. Neither we nor our general partner have any employees and we rely solely on Memorial Resource to operate our assets. We and our general partner have entered into an omnibus agreement with Memorial Resource, 45 Table of Contents pursuant to which, among other things, Memorial Resource agreed to operate our assets and perform other management, administrative, and operating services for us and our general partner. Memorial Resource provides substantially similar activities with respect to its own assets and operations. Because Memorial Resource provides services to us that are substantially similar to those performed for itself, Memorial Resource may not have sufficient human, technical and other resources to provide those services at a level that Memorial Resource would be able to provide to us if it were solely focused on our business and operations. Memorial Resource may make internal decisions on how to allocate its available resources and expertise that may not always be in our best interest compared to Memorial Resource’s interests. There is no requirement that Memorial Resource favor us over itself in providing its services. If the employees of Memorial Resource and their affiliates do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business, our financial results may suffer and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders may be reduced. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our units. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our units. Many of the directors and all of the officers who have responsibility for our management have significant duties with, and spend significant time serving, entities that may compete with us in seeking acquisitions and business opportunities and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating time or pursuing business opportunities. To maintain and increase our levels of production, we will need to acquire oil and gas properties. All of the officers of our general partner hold similar positions with Memorial Resource, and many of the directors of our general partner, who are responsible for managing our general partner’s direction of our operations and acquisition activities, hold positions of responsibility with other entities (including NGP-affiliated entities) that are in the business of identifying and acquiring oil and natural gas properties. For example, the Funds and their affiliates (including NGP) are in the business of investing in oil and natural gas companies with independent management teams that also seek to acquire oil and natural gas properties, and Memorial Resource is in the business of acquiring and developing oil and natural gas properties. Mr. Hersh, a director of our general partner, is the Chief Executive Officer of NGP Energy Capital Management and a managing partner of NGP; Mr. Gieselman, a director of our general partner, is a managing director of NGP; Mr. Weber, a director of our general partner, is a managing director of NGP and serves as Chief Investment Coordinator for NGP; and Mr. Weinzierl, the President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the board of directors of our general partner, was a managing director and operating partner of NGP before our initial public offering and is now a venture partner with NGP and continues to hold ownership interests in the Funds and certain of their affiliates. Officers of our general partner will continue to devote significant time to the business of Memorial Resource. We cannot assure you that any conflicts that may arise between us and our unitholders, on the one hand, and Memorial Resource or the Funds, on the other hand, will be resolved in our favor. The existing positions held by these directors and officers may give rise to fiduciary or other duties that are in conflict with the duties they owe to us. These officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as to the other entities with which they are or may become affiliated. Due to these 46 Table of Contents existing and potential future affiliations, they may present potential business opportunities to other entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. They may also decide that certain opportunities are more appropriate for other entities with which they are affiliated, and as a result, they may elect not to present those opportunities to us. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. For additional discussion of our management’s business affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest of which our unitholders should be aware, see “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Cost reimbursements due to Memorial Resource and our general partner for services provided to us or on our behalf will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires us to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all actual direct and indirect expenses they incur or actual payments they make on our behalf and all other expenses allocable to us or otherwise incurred by our general partner or its affiliates in connection with operating our business, including overhead allocated to our general partner by its affiliates, including Memorial Resource. These expenses include salary, bonus, incentive compensation (including equity compensation) and other amounts paid to persons who perform services for us or on our behalf, and expenses allocated to our general partner by its affiliates. Our general partner is entitled to determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. Prior to making distributions on our common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all such expenses. None of these reimbursements are capped. The reimbursements to Memorial Resource and our general partner will reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. We have entered into agreements with Memorial Resource and our general partner pursuant to which, among other things, we will make payments to Memorial Resource. These payments will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. These agreements include the following: • an omnibus agreement pursuant to which, among other things, Memorial Resource provides management, administrative and operating services for us and our general partner; and • a tax sharing agreement pursuant to which we pay Memorial Resource (or its applicable affiliate(s)) our share of state and local income and other taxes for which our results are included in a combined or consolidated tax return filed by Memorial Resource or its applicable affiliate(s). It is possible that Memorial Resource or its applicable affiliate(s) may use its tax attributes to cause its combined or consolidated group, of which we may be a member for this purpose, to owe less or no tax. In such a situation, we would pay Memorial Resource or its applicable affiliate(s) the tax we would have owed had the tax attributes not been available or used for our benefit, even though Memorial Resource or its applicable affiliate(s) had no cash tax expense for that period. Currently, the Texas margin tax (which has a maximum effective tax rate of 0.7% of federal gross income apportioned to Texas) is the only tax that is included in a combined or consolidated tax return with Memorial Resource or its applicable affiliate(s). Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. Our general partner has the right (but not the obligation), at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (25%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following any reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash contribution per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as 47 Table of Contents the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”) and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and general partner units. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will be equal to that number of common units which would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. Our general partner will be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain our general partner’s interest in us that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right (if at all) to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units and general partner units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Our unitholders who fail to furnish certain information requested by our general partner or who our general partner determines are not eligible citizens may not be entitled to receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation and their common units will be subject to redemption. We have the right to redeem all of the units of any holder that is not an eligible citizen if we are or become subject to federal, state, or local laws or regulations that, in the reasonable determination of our general partner, create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property in which we have an interest because of the nationality, citizenship or other related status of any limited partner. Our general partner may require any limited partner or transferee to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or related status. If a limited partner fails to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or other related status within 30 days after a request for the information or our general partner determines after receipt of the information that the limited partner is not an eligible citizen, the limited partner may be treated as a non-citizen assignee. A non-citizen assignee does not have the right to direct the voting of his units and may not receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation. Furthermore, we have the right to redeem all of the common units and subordinated units of any holder that is not an eligible citizen or fails to furnish the requested information. Common units held by persons who are non-taxpaying assignees will be subject to the possibility of redemption. If our general partner determines that our not being treated as an association taxable as a corporation or otherwise taxable as an entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, coupled with the tax status (or lack of proof thereof) of one or more of our limited partners, has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our assets or generate revenues from our assets, then our general partner may adopt such amendments to our partnership agreement as it determines are necessary or advisable to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status of our limited partners (and their owners, to the extent relevant) and permit us to redeem the units held by any person whose tax status has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our assets or generate revenues from our assets or who fails to comply with the procedures instituted by our general partner to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status. Our unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its board of directors. Memorial Resource, as owner of our general partner, has the power to appoint and remove our general partner’s directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. 48 Table of Contents Unitholders will not elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is appointed by Memorial Resource. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our general partner has control over all decisions related to our operations. Since Memorial Resource owns our general partner, approximately 42% of our outstanding common units, and all of our subordinated units, the other unitholders will not have an ability to influence any operating decisions and will not be able to prevent us from entering into any transactions. Our partnership agreement generally may not be amended during the subordination period without the approval of our public common unitholders. However, our partnership agreement can be amended with the consent of our general partner and the approval of the holders of a majority of our outstanding common units (including common units held by Memorial Resource and its affiliates) after the subordination period has ended. Assuming we do not issue any additional common units and Memorial Resource does not transfer its common units, Memorial Resource has the ability to amend our partnership agreement, including our policy to distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders, without the approval of any other unitholder once the subordination period ends. Furthermore, the goals and objectives of Memorial Resource and its affiliates that hold our common units relating to us may not be consistent with those of a majority of the other unitholders. Please read “— Our general partner and its affiliates own a controlling interest in us and will have conflicts of interest with, and owe limited fiduciary duties to, us, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders.” Our general partner will be required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from our operating surplus, which may result in less cash available for distribution to unitholders from operating surplus than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. Maintenance capital expenditures are those capital expenditures required to maintain our long-term asset base, including expenditures to replace our oil and natural gas reserves (including non-proved reserves attributable to undeveloped leasehold acreage), whether through the development, exploitation and production of an existing leasehold or the acquisition or development of a new oil or natural gas property. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus in determining cash available for distribution from operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus will be subject to review and change by our conflicts committee at least once a year. Our partnership agreement does not cap the amount of maintenance capital expenditures that our general partner may estimate. In years when our estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders from operating surplus will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures had been deducted from operating surplus. On the other hand, if our general partner underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we will have more cash available for distribution from operating surplus in the short term but will have less cash available for distribution from operating surplus in future periods when we have to increase our estimated maintenance capital expenditures to account for the previous underestimation. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or 49 Table of Contents factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, the exercise of its rights to transfer or vote the units it owns, the exercise of its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation involving us or to any amendment to our partnership agreement; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith and with the honest belief that the decision was in our best interest; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner acting in good faith and not involving a vote of unitholders must be (i) on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or (ii) must be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith. In determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision our general partner’s board of directors or the conflicts committee of our general partner’s board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder will become bound by the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Even if our unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without Memorial Resource’s consent. The public unitholders will be unable initially to remove our general partner without Memorial Resource’s consent because Memorial Resource owns sufficient units to be able to prevent our general partner’s removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. As of March 16, 2012, Memorial Resource owns our general partner, approximately 42% of our outstanding common units, and all of our subordinated units, which together constitutes approximately 56% of all outstanding units. Control of our general partner and its incentive distribution rights may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of Memorial Resource from transferring all or a portion of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with their own choices and thereby influence the decisions made by the board of directors and officers in a manner that may not be aligned with the interests of our unitholders. In addition, our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third 50 Table of Contents party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its incentive distribution rights. We may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash from reserves established by our general partner, working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions to our unitholders during periods when we record net losses and may not make cash distributions to our unitholders during periods when we record net income. We may issue an unlimited number of additional units, including units that are senior to the common units, without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholders’ ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional common units that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of our common units may decline. Our partnership agreement restricts the limited voting rights of unitholders, other than our general partner and its affiliates, owning 20% or more of our common units, which may limit the ability of significant unitholders to influence the manner or direction of management. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ limited voting rights by providing that any common units held by a person, entity or group that owns 20% or more of any class of common units then outstanding (other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such common units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner) cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our general partner has a call right that may require common unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is the greater of (i) the highest cash price paid by either of our general partner or any of its affiliates for any common units purchased within the 90 days preceding the date on which our general partner first mails notice of its election to purchase those common units; and (ii) the average daily closing prices of our common units over the 20 days preceding the date three days before the date the notice is mailed. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their 51 Table of Contents common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders also may incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units. As of March 16, 2012, Memorial Resource owns approximately 42% of our outstanding common units and all of our subordinated units. If we distribute cash from capital surplus, which is analogous to a return of capital, our minimum quarterly distribution will be reduced proportionately, and the distribution thresholds after which the incentive distribution rights entitle our general partner to an increased percentage of distributions will be proportionately decreased. Our cash distributions will be characterized as coming from either operating surplus or capital surplus. Operating surplus is defined in our partnership agreement, and generally means amounts we receive from operating sources, such as sale of our oil and natural gas production, less operating expenditures, such as production costs and taxes, and less estimated average capital expenditures, which are generally amounts we estimate we will need to spend in the future to maintain our production levels over the long term. Capital surplus is defined in our partnership agreement, and generally would result from cash received from non-operating sources such as sales of properties and issuances of debt and equity interests. Cash representing capital surplus, therefore, is analogous to a return of capital. Distributions of capital surplus are made to our unitholders and our general partner in proportion to their percentage interests in us, or 99.9% to our unitholders and 0.1% to our general partner, and will result in a decrease in our minimum quarterly distribution. Our partnership agreement allows us to add to operating surplus $30.5 million. As a result, a portion of this amount, which is analogous to a return of capital, may be distributed to the general partner and its affiliates, as holders of incentive distribution rights, rather than to holders of common units as a return of capital. Our unitholders’ liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. A unitholder could be liable for our obligations as if it was a general partner if: • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • a unitholder’s right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Our unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make distributions to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to us are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of common units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to us that are known to such purchaser of common units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. 52 Table of Contents We have the right to borrow to make distributions. Repayment of these borrowings will decrease cash available for future distributions, and covenants in our revolving credit facility may restrict our ability to make distributions. Our partnership agreement allows us to borrow to make distributions. We may make short-term borrowings under our revolving credit facility to make distributions. The primary purpose of these borrowings would be to mitigate the effects of short-term fluctuation in our working capital that would otherwise cause volatility in our quarter-to-quarter distributions. The terms of our revolving credit facility restrict our ability to pay distributions if we do not satisfy the financial and other covenants in the facility. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow our reserves and production. Our partnership agreement provides that we will distribute all of our available cash each quarter. As a result, we may be dependent on the issuance of additional common units and other partnership securities and borrowings to finance our growth. A number of factors will affect our ability to issue securities and borrow money to finance growth, as well as the costs of such financings, including: • general economic and market conditions, including interest rates, prevailing at the time we desire to issue securities or borrow funds; • conditions in the oil and natural gas industry; • the market price of, and demand for, our common units; • our results of operations and financial condition; and • prices for oil, NGLs and natural gas. NASDAQ does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. Our common units are listed on NASDAQ. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, NASDAQ does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner’s board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based on our current operations that we are so treated, a change in our business (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. 53 Table of Contents If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our units. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas margin tax each year at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of our gross income apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Imposition of any similar taxes by any other state may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders and, therefore, negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, the Obama Administration and members of Congress have recently considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Both President Obama’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2013 Budget and proposed legislation in Congress would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, or IDCs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could increase the taxable income allocable to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. 54 Table of Contents If the IRS contests any of the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our units may be adversely affected, and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Our unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income, which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our total net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units they sell will, in effect, become taxable income to them if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation, depletion and IDC recapture. In addition, because the amount realized may include a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if they sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in our units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts, or IRAs, and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Prospective unitholders who are tax-exempt entities or non-U.S. persons should consult their tax advisor before investing in our units. We will treat each purchaser of units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation, depletion and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of units and could have a negative impact on the value of our units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder’s tax returns. 55 Table of Contents We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, however, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered to have disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. We will adopt certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for U.S. federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same unit will be counted only once. While we would continue our existence as a Delaware limited partnership, our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as 56 Table of Contents described below) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. A technical termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a technical termination occurred. As a result of investing in our units, our unitholders may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future even if such unitholders do not live in those jurisdictions. Our unitholders likely will be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We initially will own property and conduct business in Texas and Louisiana. Louisiana currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals. These states also impose an income or franchise tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is a unitholder’s responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 