Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully read and consider the following risks and uncertainties because they could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Credit Risks Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. We are exposed to the risk that our loan and lease clients may not repay their loans and leases according to their terms and that the collateral securing the payment of these loans and leases may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant loan and lease losses which could have a material adverse impact on operating results. There is a risk that some of our assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the various loan and lease portfolio segments could be formed from inaccurately assessed conditions. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses to cover probable losses inherent in our loan and lease portfolio. Additional loan and lease losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than that experienced to date. An analysis of the loan and lease portfolio by segment, historical loss experience and an evaluation of general economic conditions are all utilized in determining the size of the allowance. Additional adjustments may be necessary to allow for unexpected volatility or deterioration in the local or national economy. If significant additions are made to the allowance for loan and leases losses, this would materially decrease net income. 13 Table of Contents Additionally, regulators periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses or identify further loan or lease charge-offs to be recognized based on judgments different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses, including as required by regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse impact on net income. Declines in fair values of commercial real estate or equipment provided as collateral could increase our exposure to future probable losses. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of economic conditions. Adverse developments affecting real estate values in one or more of our markets could impact collateral coverage associated with the commercial real estate segment of our portfolio possibly leading to increased specific reserves or charge-offs. We also provide loans collateralized by general business assets including accounts receivable, inventory, and business equipment. Significant adverse changes in various industries could cause rapid declines in values and collectability associated with those business assets resulting in inadequate collateral coverage that may expose us to future losses. An increase in specific reserves and charge-offs may have a material adverse impact on our results of operation. Our loan portfolio has a concentration of commercial real estate loans. We have a concentration of commercial real estate loans in the primary markets we serve. The repayment of these loans generally is dependent on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Payments on loans secured by commercial real estate are often dependent upon the successful operation and management of the properties; therefore, repayment of these loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower’s control, including adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. In the event that the cash flow from the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan could be negatively impacted. The deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a material increase in our level of non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans results in a loss of revenue from these loans and could result in an increase in the provision for loan and lease loss and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our net income. Liquidity Risks The corporation is a bank holding company and its sources of funds are limited. The Corporation is a bank holding company, and its operations are primarily conducted by the Banks, which are subject to significant federal and state regulation. Cash available to pay dividends to the shareholders of the Corporation and meet the Corporation’s debt service requirements is derived primarily from its existing cash flow sources, its third party line of credit, dividends received from the Banks, or a combination thereof. Future dividend payments by the Banks to the Corporation will require generation of future earnings by the Banks and are subject to certain regulatory restrictions. We rely, in part, on external financing to fund our operations and the lack of availability of such funds in the future could adversely affect our operations. Our ability to implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to obtain funding for loan originations, working capital and other general corporate purposes. If our core banking and commercial deposits are not sufficient to meet our funding needs, we may increase our utilization of brokered deposits, FHLB advances and other wholesale funding sources necessary to fund desired growth levels. Because these funds generally are more sensitive to interest rate changes than our core deposits, they are more likely to move to the highest rate available. In addition, the use of brokered deposits without regulatory approval is limited to banks that are “well capitalized” according to regulation. If our Banks are unable to maintain their capital levels at “well capitalized” minimums, we could lose a significant source of funding, which would force us to utilize additional wholesale funding or potentially sell assets at a time when pricing may be unfavorable. To the extent we are not successful in obtaining such funding, we will be unable to implement our strategy as planned, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 14 Table of Contents The Corporation may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Corporation has exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Corporation to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Interest Rate Risk Variations in interest rates may harm our financial results. We are subject to interest rate risk. Changes in the interest rate environment, whether as a result of changes in monetary policies of the FRB or otherwise, may reduce our profits. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. They are also affected by the proportion of interest-earning assets that are funded by interest-bearing liabilities. There is no assurance that we can minimize our interest rate risk. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay their obligations if the increase in rates is not concurrent with a general expansion of the economy. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. Strategic Risks Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to effectively develop and execute our strategic plan. Our ability to increase profitability will depend on a variety of factors including the identification of desirable business opportunities, competitive responses from financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage liquidity and funding sources. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully develop and manage our strategic plan, there can be no assurances that opportunities will be available and that the strategic plan will be successful or effectively managed. Competition from other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. We encounter heavy competition in attracting commercial loan, equipment finance and deposit clients as well as trust and investment clients. We believe the principal factors that are used to attract core deposit accounts and that distinguish one financial institution from another include value-added relationships, rates of return, types of accounts, service fees, convenience of office locations and hours and quality of service to the depositors. We believe the primary factors in competing for commercial loans are value-added relationships, interest rates, loan fee charges, loan structure and timeliness and quality of service to the borrower. Our competition includes banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies, credit unions, finance companies, equipment finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage firms and investment banking firms. We also compete with regional and national financial institutions that have a substantial presence in our market areas, many of which have greater liquidity, higher lending limits, greater access to capital, more established market recognition and more resources and collective experience than us. Furthermore, tax exempt credit unions operate in most of our market areas and aggressively price their products and services to a large portion of the market. Our profitability depends, in part, upon our ability to successfully maintain and increase market share. 15 Table of Contents The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. On July 21, 2011, all federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates or products our competitors may offer, if any, in response to this repeal. Our interest expenses would increase and our net interest margin would decrease if we began to offer interest on demand deposits to attract new clients or maintain current customers. If we are unable to keep pace with technological advances in our industry, our ability to attract and retain clients could be adversely affected. The banking industry is constantly subject to technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases our efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience as well as create additional efficiencies in our operations. A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements, as well as significant economies of scale. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement and offer new technology-driven products and services to our clients. If we fail to do so, our ability to attract and retain clients may be adversely affected. Operational Risks Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. Our ability to successfully identify and manage risks facing us is an important factor that can significantly impact our results. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. We rely on our management, and the loss of one or more of those managers may harm our business. Our success has been and will be greatly influenced by our continuing ability to retain the services of our existing senior management and, as we expand, to attract and retain additional qualified senior and middle management. The unexpected loss of key management personnel or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, our failure to develop and/or maintain an effective succession plan will impede our ability to quickly and effectively react to unexpected loss of key management and in turn may have an adverse effect on our business. We face significant operational risks because the nature of the financial services business and with our business bank focus, we handle a high volume of high dollar transactions. We rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside the Corporation, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction process and technology. With our business bank focus, the dollar value of each transaction tends to be greater; thereby increasing the magnitude of the risk of loss associated with processing a high number of transactions. Our internal controls may be ineffective. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the internal controls are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures, including fraudulent acts, or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents A breach in security of our systems or our third party service providers’ communications and information technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely heavily on communications and information technology to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption due to a breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our general ledger, deposit, loan, investment management, electronic banking and other systems. We have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of such a failure or interruption due to a security breach of our information systems; however, there can be no assurance that any such events will not occur or, if they do, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of clients, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to litigation and possible financial liability which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Failure in any of these situations subjects us to risks that may vary in size and scope. In addition, we rely on third-party service providers for a substantial portion of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. While we have selected these third-party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. If any of these third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, security breaches, or if there is any disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources for these services. There can be no assurance that we could negotiate terms as favorable to us or obtain services with similar functionality as we currently have without the expenditure of substantial resources. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business continuity plans could prove to be inadequate, resulting in a material interruption in or disruption to, our business and a negative impact on our results of operations. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business, and our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our systems against damage from fire, power loss or telecommunication failure. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. These problems may arise in both our internally developed systems and the systems of our third-party service providers. Any failure or interruption of these systems, whether due to severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, criminal activity or other factors, could result in failures or disruptions in general ledger, deposit, loan, client relationship management and other systems. While we have a business continuity plan and other policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of clients, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Legal/Compliance Risks We are subject to extensive regulation, and changes in banking laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. Our businesses are subject to extensive state and federal government supervision, regulation, and control. Existing state and federal banking laws subject us to substantial limitations with respect to loans, purchases of securities, payment of dividends and many other aspects of our businesses. There can be no assurance that future legislation or government policy will not adversely affect the banking industry and our operations by further restricting activities or increasing the cost of compliance. See Item 1, Business—Supervision and Regulation. Changes in accounting standards may materially impact our financial statements. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, it may be necessary to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the significant restatement of prior period financial statements. 17 Table of Contents External Risks Adverse changes in global, national and local economic conditions, particularly a continuing or worsening slowdown where our business is concentrated, could harm our business. Our success depends on the economic conditions in the United States and economic conditions in the general geographic markets in which we operate, principally in the South Central region of Wisconsin and to a lesser extent, the Southeastern and Northeastern regions of Wisconsin. We primarily provide banking and financial services to meet the needs of small to mid-sized businesses. The origination of loans secured by real estate and business assets of those businesses is our primary function and our principal source of profits. Client demand for loans could be reduced further by a weakening economy, increases in unemployment or an increase in interest rates in these areas. In addition, these businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. The duration and severity of economic declines, including declines in real estate and equipment values, in these areas could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans or attract deposits, cause loans to become inadequately collateralized and generally have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The national and global macro-economic downturn, including recent events in the European financial markets, resulted in unprecedented levels of financial market volatility, depressed the overall market value of financial institutions, limited access to capital, and had a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of banking companies, including the Corporation. There can be no assurance that the actions taken by the U.S. Government, FRB and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve their intended effect or will be continued. Reputational Risks Negative publicity could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital due to negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from our actual or alleged conduct in a number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, and actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers, and can expose us to the litigation and regulatory action. Our trust operations subject us to financial and reputational risks. We are subject to trust operations risk related to performance of fiduciary responsibilities. Clients may make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. Whether client claims and legal action related to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services, as well as impact client demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to investing in the Corporation Our stock is thinly traded. Low volume of trading activity of our stock may make it difficult for investors to resell their common stock when they want at prices they find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors and the volume of shares traded can be influenced by: • our operating performance; • limited research analysis performed on our Corporation; • operating results and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; and • changes in government regulations. 18 Table of Contents General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. To maintain adequate capital levels, we may be required to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed and could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In order to ensure our ability to support the operations of our Banks we may need to limit or terminate cash dividends that can be paid to our shareholders. In addition, we may need to raise capital in the future. Our ability to raise capital, if needed, will depend in part on our financial performance and conditions in the capital markets at that time, and accordingly, we cannot provide assurance of our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us. The current economic environment, the relationship of stock prices to tangible book value, and the overall condition of capital markets, all of which are outside of our control, as well as any decline in our performance or stock price, increase uncertainty as to when capital on acceptable terms will be available to us. In addition, if we decide to raise equity capital, the interest of our shareholders could be diluted. Any issuance of common stock at prices below tangible book value would dilute the ownership of our current shareholders. In addition, the market price of our common stock could decrease as a result of the sale of a large number of shares or similar securities, or the perception that such sales could occur. If we cannot raise capital when needed, our ability to serve as a source of strength to our Banks, pay dividends, maintain adequate capital levels and liquidity, or further expand our operations could be materially impaired. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 