ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a business similar to ours. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we may not be able to pay distributions on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline and our unitholders could lose all or part of their investment. Other risks are also described in “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our general partner and its affiliates. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.4750 per unit or any other amount. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserves established by our general partner to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, including acquisitions of additional oil and natural gas properties, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders. The amount of cash we distribute on our units principally depends on the cash we generate from operations, which depends on, among other things: • the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce; • the prices at which we sell our oil, natural gas and NGL production; • the amount and timing of settlements of our commodity derivatives; • the level of our operating costs, including maintenance capital expenditures and payments to our general partner and its affiliates; and • the level of our interest expense, which depends on the amount of our indebtedness and the interest payable thereon. For a description of additional restrictions and factors that may affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Unless we replace the oil and natural gas reserves we produce, our revenues and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We will be unable to sustain our current distribution rate without substantial capital expenditures that maintain our asset base. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and therefore our cash flow and ability to make distributions are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves. Our production decline rates may be significantly higher than currently estimated if our wells do not produce as expected. Further, our decline rate may change when we drill additional wells or make acquisitions. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at economically acceptable terms, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. 40 Table of Contents Our acquisition and development operations require substantial capital expenditures. The development and production of our oil and natural gas reserves requires substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Further, if the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decreases, or our revenues decrease, as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices or for any other reason, we may not be able to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at the level necessary to generate cash sufficient to make distributions to our unitholders of our current rate or at all. A decline in, or sustained low levels of, oil or natural gas prices will cause a decline in our cash flow from operations, which could cause us to reduce our distributions or cease paying distributions altogether. Lower oil and natural gas prices may decrease our revenues and thus cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been extremely volatile. For example, for the five years ended December 31, 2012, the NYMEX-WTI oil future price ranged from a high of $145.29 per Bbl to a low of $33.87 per Bbl, while the NYMEX-Henry Hub natural gas future price ranged from a high of $13.58 per MMBtu to a low of $1.91 per MMBtu. From January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012, the NYMEX-WTI oil future price ranged from a high of $109.77 per Bbl to a low of $77.69 per Bbl, while the NYMEX-Henry Hub natural gas future price ranged from a high of $3.90 per MMBtu to a low of $1.91 per MMBtu. A significant decrease in commodity prices may cause us to reduce the distributions we pay to our unitholders or to cease paying distributions. Domestic natural gas prices have recently been at relatively historic low levels, due to an oversupply of natural gas in the United States. If natural gas prices remain at these low levels for a sustained period, our cash flow and revenues will be affected, and we may not be able to continue paying distributions to our unitholders. If commodity prices decline and remain depressed for a prolonged period, a significant portion of our development projects may become uneconomic and cause write downs of the value of our oil and natural gas properties, which may adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Significantly lower oil prices, or sustained lower natural gas prices, would render many of our development and production projects uneconomical and result in a downward adjustment of our reserve estimates, which would reduce our borrowing base and our ability to pay distributions or fund our operations. Further, deteriorating commodity prices may cause us to recognize impairments in the value of our oil and natural gas properties. In addition, if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for impairments. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken, our ability to borrow funds under our revolving credit facility and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. An increase in the differential between the NYMEX or other benchmark prices of oil and natural gas and the wellhead price we receive for our production could significantly reduce our cash available for distribution and adversely affect our financial condition. The prices that we receive for our oil and natural gas production often reflect a regional discount, based on the location of production, to the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX or ICE, that are used for calculating hedge positions. The prices we receive for our production are also affected by the specific characteristics of the production relative to production sold at benchmark prices. For example, our California oil typically has a lower gravity, and a portion has higher sulfur content, than oil sold at certain benchmark prices. Therefore, because our oil requires more complex refining equipment to convert it into high value products, it may sell at a discount to those prices. These discounts, if significant, could reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders and adversely affect our financial condition. 41 Table of Contents Our hedging strategy may not effectively mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility from our cash flows, and our hedging activities could result in cash losses and may limit potential gains. We intend to maintain a portfolio of commodity derivative contracts covering approximately 65% to 85% of our estimated production from total proved reserves over a three-to-six year period at any given point in time. These commodity derivative contracts include natural gas, oil and NGL financial swaps and collar contracts and natural gas basis financial swaps. The prices and quantities at which we enter into commodity derivative contracts covering our production in the future will be dependent upon oil and natural gas prices and price expectations at the time we enter into these transactions, which may be substantially higher or lower than current or future oil and natural gas prices. Accordingly, our price hedging strategy may not protect us from significant declines in oil and natural gas prices received for our future production. Many of the derivative contracts to which we will be a party will require us to make cash payments to the extent the applicable index exceeds a predetermined price, thereby limiting our ability to realize the benefit of increases in oil and natural gas prices. If our actual production and sales for any period are less than our hedged production and sales for that period (including reductions in production due to operational delays) or if we are unable to perform our drilling activities as planned, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our hedging obligations without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, which may materially impact our liquidity. Our hedging transactions expose us to counterparty credit risk. Our hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract. Disruptions in the financial markets or other unforeseen events could lead to sudden changes in a counterparty’s liquidity, which could impair its ability to perform under the terms of the derivative contract and, accordingly, prevent us from realizing the benefit of the derivative contract. Our estimated proved reserves and future production rates are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our estimated reserves. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering is complex, requiring subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future production levels and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. For example, if the prices used in our reserve report had been $10.00 less per Bbl for oil and $1.00 less per MMBtu for natural gas, then the standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2012, excluding the effects of our commodity derivative contracts, would have decreased by $262 million, from $832 million to $570 million. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 42 Table of Contents The standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves shown in this report, or standardized measure, may not be the current market value of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves. In accordance with rules established by the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the 12-month average oil and gas index prices, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average for the first-day-of-the-month price for each month and costs in effect on the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the properties. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate, and future net present value estimates using then current prices and costs may be significantly less than the current estimate. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting requirements, which is required by the FASB, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Developing and producing oil and natural gas are costly and high-risk activities with many uncertainties. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for oil and natural gas can be uneconomic, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. Any of our development and production operations may incur unscheduled costs or otherwise be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: • high costs, shortages or delivery delays of rigs, equipment, labor or other services; • composition of sour natural gas, including sulfur, carbon dioxide and other diluent content; • unexpected operational events and conditions; • failure of down hole equipment and tubulars; • loss of wellbore mechanical integrity; • failure of unavailability of gathering pipeline capacity, particularly from the Beta properties; • hydrocarbon or oilfield chemical spills; • adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; • human errors, facility or equipment malfunctions and equipment failures or accidents, including acceleration of deterioration of our facilities and equipment due to the highly corrosive nature of sour natural gas; • loss of drilling fluid circulation; • fires, blowouts, surface craterings and explosions; and • surface spills or underground migration due to uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, formation water or well fluids. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Furthermore, the Beta properties are offshore Southern California. Development and production of oil and natural gas in offshore waters has inherent and historically higher risk than similar activities onshore. 43 Table of Contents Many of our properties are in areas that may have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells. Many of our properties are in areas that may have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling. The owners of leasehold interests lying contiguous or adjacent to or adjoining any of our properties could take actions, such as drilling additional wells, that could adversely affect our operations. When a new well is completed and produced, the pressure differential in the vicinity of the well causes the migration of reservoir fluids towards the new wellbore (and potentially away from existing wellbores). As a result, the drilling and production of these potential locations could cause a depletion of our proved reserves, and may inhibit our ability to further exploit and develop our reserves. Our expectations for future development activities are planned to be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. We have identified drilling, recompletion and development locations and prospects for future drilling, recompletion and development. These drilling, recompletion and development locations represent a significant part of our future drilling and enhanced recovery opportunity plans. Our ability to drill, recomplete and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, the generation of additional seismic or geological information, the availability of drilling rigs, and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we cannot be certain of the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of estimated proved reserves or meet our expectations for success. As such, our actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from our current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on our estimated reserves, financial condition and results of operations, and as a result, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Shortages of rigs, equipment and crews could delay our operations, increase our costs and delay forecasted revenue. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally increase the demand for rigs, equipment and crews and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, development equipment, services and personnel. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced development crews and oil field equipment and services could restrict Memorial Resource’s ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations that it currently has planned relating to the fields where our properties are located. Any delay in the development of new wells or a significant increase in development costs could reduce our revenues and reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and ability to pay or increase distributions will be limited. Our ability to grow and to increase distributions to our unitholders depends in part on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in available cash per unit. We may be unable to make such acquisitions because we are: • unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with their owners; • unable to obtain financing for such acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or • outbid by competitors. If we are unable to acquire properties containing estimated proved reserves, our total level of estimated proved reserves will decline as a result of our production, and we will be limited in our ability to increase or possibly even to maintain our level of cash distributions to our unitholders. 44 Table of Contents Any acquisitions we complete will be subject to substantial risks. One of our growth strategies is to acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves from time to time. Even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will increase available cash per unit, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in available cash per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • the validity of our assumptions about estimated proved reserves, future production, revenues, capital expenditures, operating expenses and costs; • an inability to successfully integrate the assets or businesses we acquire; • a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; • a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; • the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which any indemnity we receive is inadequate; • mistaken assumptions about the overall cost of equity or debt; • potential lack of operating experience in the geographic market where the acquired assets or business are located; • an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets; and • the occurrence of other significant changes, such as impairment of oil and natural gas properties, goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. Our decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic data and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition, given time constraints imposed by sellers. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. The Beta properties are located in an area where we have not historically conducted operations, which exposes us to additional risk. The Beta properties are located offshore Southern California. Because we do not have extensive experience in this geographic region, we are less able to use past operational results to help predict future results. Our lack of experience may result in our not being able to fully execute our expected production and drilling programs in this region, and the return on our investment in the Beta properties may not meet our expectations. As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders may be affected. Adverse developments in our operating areas would reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our properties are located in Texas, Louisiana and offshore Southern California. An adverse development in the oil and natural gas business of any of these geographic areas, such as in our ability to attract and retain field personnel or in our ability to comply with local regulations, could have an impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. 45 Table of Contents We are dependent upon a small number of significant customers for a substantial portion of our production sales and we may experience a temporary decline in revenues and production if we lose any of those customers. We had two individual customers that each accounted for 10% or more of total reported revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. To the extent these significant customers reduce the volume they purchase from us, we could experience a temporary interruption in sales of, or may receive a lower price for, our production, and our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline, which could adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders at the then-current distribution rate or at all. See “Item 1. Business — Operations — Marketing and Major Customers.” Additionally, a failure by these significant customers, or any purchasers of our production, to perform their payment obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. To the extent that purchasers of our production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there could be an increased risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to us. If for any reason we were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of our production were uncollectible, we would recognize a charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss and could suffer a material reduction in our liquidity and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We may experience a financial loss if Memorial Resource is unable to sell, or receive payment for, a significant portion of our oil and natural gas production. Under our omnibus agreement, Memorial Resource handles sales of our natural gas, oil and NGL production on our behalf. These sales depend upon the demand for natural gas, oil and NGLs from potential purchasers of our production. In recent years, a number of energy marketing and trading companies have discontinued their marketing and trading operations, which has significantly reduced the number of potential purchasers for our production. This reduction in potential customers has reduced overall market liquidity. If any one or more of our significant customers reduces the volume of oil and natural gas production it purchases and other purchasers are unable to be found, then the volume of our production sold on our behalf could be reduced, and we could experience a material decline in cash available for distribution. In addition, a failure by any of these companies, or any purchasers of our production, to perform their payment obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. To the extent that purchasers of our production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there could be an increased risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to us. If for any reason we were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of our production were uncollectible, we would recognize a charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss and could suffer a material reduction in our liquidity and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. 46 Table of Contents We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive with respect to acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and natural gas, and securing equipment and trained personnel. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and natural gas but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis, and many of our competitors have access to capital at a lower cost than that available to us. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and natural gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial, technical or personnel resources permit. In addition, there is substantial competition for investment capital in the oil and natural gas industry. These larger companies may have a greater ability to continue development activities during periods of low oil and natural gas prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Furthermore, we may not be able to aggregate sufficient quantities of production to compete with larger companies that are able to sell greater volumes of production to intermediaries, thereby reducing the realized prices attributable to our production. Any inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We may incur additional debt to enable us to pay our quarterly distributions. We may be unable to pay the minimum quarterly distribution or the then-current distribution rate without borrowing under our revolving credit facility or otherwise. If we use borrowings to pay distributions to our unitholders for an extended period of time rather than to fund capital expenditures and other activities relating to our operations, we may be unable to maintain or grow our business. Such a curtailment of our business activities, combined with our payment of principal and interest on our future indebtedness incurred to pay these distributions, will reduce our cash available for distribution on our units and will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we borrow to pay distributions to our unitholders during periods of low commodity prices and commodity prices remain low, we may have to reduce our distribution to our unitholders to avoid excessive leverage. Our revolving credit facility has restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facility and any future financing agreements may restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities or to pay distributions to our unitholders. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our future ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and other events or circumstances beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any provisions of our credit facility that are not cured or waived within the appropriate time periods provided in our revolving credit facility, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders will be inhibited and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our revolving credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our revolving credit facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. 47 Table of Contents Our revolving credit facility allows us to borrow in an amount up to the borrowing base, which is primarily based on the estimated value of our oil and natural gas properties and our commodity derivative contracts as determined semi-annually by our lenders in their sole discretion. Our borrowing base is subject to redetermination on at least a semi-annual basis based on an engineering report with respect to our estimated natural gas, oil and NGL reserves, which takes into account the prevailing natural gas, oil and NGL prices at such time, as adjusted for the impact of our commodity derivative contracts. A future decline in commodity prices could result in a redetermination that lowers our borrowing base at that time and, in such case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness outstanding in excess of the borrowing base. If we are unable to repay any borrowings in excess of a decreased borrowing base, we would be in default and no longer able to make any distributions to our unitholders. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. There are a variety of operating risks inherent in our oil and natural gas properties and other assets, such as leaks, explosions, mechanical problems and natural disasters, all of which could cause substantial financial losses. Any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of our operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial revenue losses. The location of our oil and natural gas properties and other assets near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. Our offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks specific to the marine environment, such as a dependence on a limited number of electrical transmission lines, as well as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from adverse weather conditions. Offshore activities are subject to more extensive governmental regulation than our other oil and natural gas activities. We are vulnerable to the risks associated with operating offshore California, including risks relating to: • natural disasters such as earthquakes, mudslides, fires and floods; • oil field service costs and availability; • compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations; • remediation and other costs resulting from oil spill releases of hazardous materials and other environmental damages; and • failure of equipment or facilities. In addition to lost production and increased costs, these hazards could cause serious injuries, fatalities, contamination or property damage for which we could be held responsible. The potential consequences of these hazards are particularly severe for us because a significant portion of our offshore operations are conducted in environmentally sensitive areas, including areas with significant residential populations. An accidental oil spill or release on or related to offshore properties and operations could expose us to joint and several strict liability, without regard to fault, under applicable law for all containment and oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil, natural resource damages, and economic damages suffered by persons adversely affected by an oil spill. If an oil discharge or substantial threat of discharge were to occur, we may be liable for costs and damages, which costs and damages could be material to our business, financial condition or results of operations and could subject us to criminal and civil penalties. Finally, maintenance activities undertaken to reduce operational risks can be costly and can require exploration, exploitation and development operations to be curtailed while those activities are being completed. 48 Table of Contents Insurance against all operational risk is not available to us. We are not fully insured against all risks, including development and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could therefore occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Moreover, insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and on commercially reasonable terms. Changes in the insurance markets due to weather and adverse economic conditions have made it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance we would otherwise have obtained prior to these market changes, and we cannot be sure the insurance coverage we do obtain will contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our business depends in part on pipelines, gathering systems and processing facilities owned by us or others. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities could interfere with our ability to market our oil and natural gas production. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and other transportation methods, gathering systems and processing facilities owned by third parties. The amount of oil and natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. For example, our ability to produce and sell oil from the Beta properties will depend on the availability of the pipeline infrastructure between platforms as well as the San Pedro Bay pipeline for delivery of that oil to shore, and any unavailability of that pipeline infrastructure or pipeline could cause us to shut in all or a portion of the production from the Beta properties for the length of such unavailability. Our access to transportation options can also be affected by U.S. federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided with only limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or transportation or processing facility capacity could reduce our ability to market our oil and natural gas production and harm our business. The operation of our properties is largely dependent on the ability of Memorial Resource’s employees. The continuing production from our properties, and to some extent the marketing of our production, is dependent upon the ability of the operators of our properties. Memorial Resource operates substantially all of our properties, either directly as operator or, where we are the operator of record, on our behalf under the omnibus agreement. As of December 31, 2012, based on proved reserve volumes, we operated 68%, Memorial Resource operated 29% and third parties operated 3% of the wells and properties in which we have interests. As a result, the success and timing of drilling and development activities on such properties, depend upon a number of factors, including: • the nature and timing of drilling and operational activities; • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • Memorial Resource’s or the operators’ expertise and financial resources; • the approval of other participants in such properties; and • the selection and application of suitable technology. 49 Table of Contents If Memorial Resource or the applicable third-party operator is unable to conduct drilling and development activities on our properties on a timely basis, we may be unable to increase our production or offset normal production declines, or we will be required to write off the estimated proved reserves attributable thereto, any of which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations and our cash available for distribution. Any such write-offs of our reserves could reduce our ability to borrow money and could adversely impact our ability to pay distributions on the common units. Where we are operator of the wells located on our properties, our operations will be generally governed by operating agreements if any third party has interests in these properties, which agreements typically require the operator to conduct operations in a good and workmanlike manner. For the wells located on our properties that Memorial Resource or a third party is the operator, the operator will generally not be a fiduciary with respect to us or our unitholders. As an owner of working interests in properties not operated by us, we will generally have a cause of action for damages arising from a breach of the operator’s duty. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our oil and natural gas development and production operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations administered by governmental authorities vested with broad authority relating to the exploration for, and the development, production and transportation of, oil and natural gas, as well as environmental and safety matters. To conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our operations, including any evolving interpretation and enforcement by governmental authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our oil and natural gas development and production operations are also subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, health and safety aspects of our operations, or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations applicable to our operations including the acquisition of a permit before conducting regulated drilling activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often requiring difficult and costly compliance or corrective actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, the suspension or revocation of necessary permits, licenses and authorizations, the requirement that additional pollution controls be installed and, in some instances, the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. See “Item 1. Business — Environmental, Health and Safety Matters and Regulations” and “— Other Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. In addition, we may experience delays in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits, which may delay or interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue. 50 Table of Contents Under certain environmental laws that impose strict as well as joint and several liability, we may be required to remediate contaminated properties currently or formerly owned or operated by us or facilities of third parties that received waste generated by our operations regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations. Moreover, public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years. The trend of more expansive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations applied to the crude oil and natural gas industry could continue, resulting in increased costs of doing business and consequently affecting profitability. To the extent laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restricts drilling or imposes more stringent and costly operating, waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements, our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our oil and gas operations associated with our Beta properties are conducted on offshore leases in federal waters. Federal offshore leases are administered by Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, or BOEM. Holders of federal offshore leases are required to comply with detailed BOEM regulations, Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, or BSEE, regulations and the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA), which are subject to interpretation and change. Lessees must obtain BOEM approval for exploration, development and production plans prior to the commencement of offshore operations. In addition, approvals and permits are required from other agencies such as the U.S. Coast Guard and the EPA. BSEE has regulations requiring offshore production facilities and pipelines located on the outer continental shelf to meet stringent engineering and construction specifications, and has proposed and/or promulgated additional safety related regulations concerning the design and operating procedures of these facilities and pipelines, including regulations to safeguard against or respond to well blowouts and other catastrophes. BSEE regulations also restrict the flaring or venting of natural gas and prohibit the flaring of liquid hydrocarbons and oil without prior authorization. BSEE has regulations governing the plugging and abandonment of wells located offshore and the installation and removal of all fixed drilling and production facilities. BSEE generally requires that lessees have substantial net worth, post supplemental bonds or provide other acceptable assurances that the obligations will be met. If we fail to pay royalties or comply with safety and environmental regulations, BOEM and BSEE may require that our operations on the Beta properties be suspended or terminated. The requirements imposed by BOEM and BSEE regulations are frequently changed and subject to new interpretations. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases,” or GHGs, including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. The U.S. Congress has previously considered legislation to comprehensively address global climate change. Moreover, almost half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs or other mechanisms. Most cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances corresponding with their annual emissions of GHGs. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. As the number of GHG emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. Some states have enacted renewable portfolio standards, which require utilities to purchase a certain percentage of their energy from renewable fuel sources. 51 Table of Contents In addition, in December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment, because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In response to its endangerment finding, the EPA recently adopted two sets of rules regarding possible future regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act. The motor vehicle rule, which was finalized in April 2010 and became effective in January 2011, purports to limit emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles. The EPA adopted the stationary source rule (or the “tailoring rule”) in May 2010, and it also became effective January 2011, although it remains the subject of several pending lawsuits filed by industry groups. The tailoring rule establishes new GHG emissions thresholds that determine when stationary sources must obtain permits under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or PSD, and Title V programs of the Clean Air Act. The permitting requirements of the PSD program apply only to newly constructed or modified major sources. Obtaining a PSD permit requires a source to install best available control technology, or BACT, for those regulated pollutants that are emitted in certain quantities. Finally, in October 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the U.S., including natural gas liquids fractionators and local natural gas/distribution companies, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. In November 2010, the EPA published a final rule expanding the GHG reporting rule to include onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution facilities. This rule requires reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities on an annual basis, with reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. The EPA is also under a legal obligation pursuant to a consent decree with certain environmental groups to issue new source performance standards for refineries. In addition, many states have developed measures to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emissions inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. In California, for example, Assembly Bill 32 required the California Air Resources Board, or CARB, to establish and adopt regulations to take effect and become legally enforceable by January 1, 2012 in order to achieve an overall reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from all sources in California of 25% by 2020. In October 2011, the CARB adopted the final cap and trade regulation, including a delay in the start of the cap and trade rule’s compliance obligations until 2013. Because our operations associated with our Beta properties emit greenhouse gases, our operations in California may be subject to regulations issued under Assembly Bill 32. These regulations will increase our costs for those operations and adversely affect our operating results. The EPA has also adopted regulations imposing permitting and best available control technology requirements on the largest greenhouse gas stationary sources, regulations requiring reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from certain facilities, and it is considering additional regulation of greenhouse gases as “air pollutants” under the existing federal Clean Air Act. Passage of climate change legislation or other regulatory initiatives by Congress or various states, or the adoption of regulations by the EPA or analogous state agencies, that regulate or restrict emissions of greenhouse gases (including methane or carbon dioxide) in areas in which we conduct business could have an adverse effect on our operations and the demand for oil and natural gas. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory requirements. Any GHG emissions legislation or regulatory programs applicable to power plants or refineries could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 1. Business — Environmental, Health and Safety Matters and Regulations” and “— Other Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. 52 Table of Contents The third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex federal, state and other laws that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our business. The operations of the third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations that require obtaining and maintaining numerous permits, approvals and certifications from various federal, state and local government authorities. These third parties may incur substantial costs in order to comply with existing laws and regulations. If existing laws and regulations governing such third-party services are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to their operations, these changes may affect the costs that we pay for such services. Similarly, a failure to comply with such laws and regulations by the third parties on whom we rely could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. See “Item 1. Business — Environmental, Health and Safety Matters and Regulations” and “— Other Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect the third parties on whom we rely. Derivatives reform legislation and related regulations could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. The July 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, provides for federal oversight of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market and mandates that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, adopt rules or regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act and providing definitions of terms used in the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes margin requirements and requires clearing and trade execution practices for certain market participants and may result in certain market participants needing to curtail or cease their derivatives activities. Although many of the rules necessary to implement the Dodd-Frank Act remain to be adopted, the CFTC has issued a large number of rules to implement the Dodd-Frank Act, including a rule establishing an “end-user” exception to mandatory clearing, referred to herein as the “End-User Exception,” and a rule imposing position limits, referred to herein as the Position Limit Rule. We qualify as a “non-financial entity” for purposes of the End-User Exception and, as such, we will be eligible for and expect to utilize such exception and, as a result, our hedging activity will not be subject to mandatory clearing or the margin requirements imposed in connection with mandatory clearing. However, most if not all of our hedge counterparties will be subject to mandatory clearing in connection with their hedging activities with parties who do not qualify for the End-User Exception. The Position Limit Rule was vacated and remanded to the CFTC for further proceedings by order of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia on September 28, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act, the rules which have been adopted and not vacated, and, to the extent that a position limit rule is ultimately effected, could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures and fund unitholder distributions. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity contracts related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations. 53 Table of Contents Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays, and adversely affect our production. We routinely apply hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our U.S. onshore oil and natural-gas drilling and completion programs. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions; however, the EPA recently asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel as an additive under the Safe Drinking Water Act’s, or SDWA, Underground Injection Control Program, or UIC Program. On May 4, 2012, the EPA published a draft UIC Program guidance for oil and natural gas hydraulic fracturing activities using diesel fuel. The guidance document is designed for use by employees of the EPA that draft the UIC permits and describes how regulations of Class II wells, which are those wells injecting fluids associated with oil and natural gas production activities, may be tailored to address the purported unique risks of diesel fuel injection during the hydraulic fracturing process. Although the EPA is not the permitting authority for UIC Class II programs in Texas and Louisiana, where we maintain acreage, the EPA is encouraging state programs to review and consider use of such draft guidance. The draft guidance underwent an extended public comment process, which concluded on August 23, 2012. The EPA is presently evaluating the public comments and will likely issue a final guidance document at a later date. In addition, legislation has been introduced before Congress, called the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act, to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Texas adopted a law in June 2011 requiring disclosure to the RRC and the public of certain information regarding the components, as well as the volume of water, used in the hydraulic fracturing process. In addition to state law, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. In the event state, local, or municipal legal restrictions are adopted in areas where we are currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct operations, we may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from the drilling of wells. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater and issued a progress report in December 2012. A final draft report is expected to be released for public comment and peer review in 2014. The EPA’s study, depending on its degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms. Also, on May 4, 2012, the U.S. Department of Interior issued a draft rule that seeks to require companies operating on federal and Indian lands to (i) publicly disclose the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process; (ii) confirm its wells meet certain construction standards and (iii) establish site plans to manage flowback water. In August 2012, the EPA adopted rules that subject oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, and storage operations to regulation under the New Source Performance Standards, or NSPS, and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants, or NESHAP, programs. The EPA’s final rule includes NSPS standards for completions of hydraulically fractured wells and establishes specific new requirements for emissions from compressors, controllers, dehydrators, storage vessels, natural gas processing plants and certain other equipment. The final rule is described in more detail below. 54 Table of Contents Finally, on October 20, 2011, the EPA announced its plan to propose federal pre-treatment standards for wastewater generated during the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing stimulation requires the use of a significant volume of water with some resulting “flowback,” as well as “produced water.” The EPA asserts that this water may contain radioactive materials and other pollutants and, therefore, may deteriorate drinking water quality if not properly treated before discharge. The Clean Water Act prohibits the discharge of wastewater into federal or state waters. Thus “flowback” and “produced water” must either be injected into permitted disposal wells or transported to public or private treatment facilities for treatment. The EPA asserts that due to some contaminants in hydraulic fracturing wastewater, most treatment facilities are unable to properly treat the wastewater before introducing it into public waters. If adopted, the new pretreatment rules will require shale gas operations to pretreat wastewater before transferring it to treatment facilities. Proposed rules are expected in 2013 for coalbed methane and 2014 for shale gas. If these or any other new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted at the state and local level, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from dense subsurface rock formations and, in the event of local prohibitions against commercial production of natural gas, may preclude our ability to drill wells. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA or other federal agencies, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements and result in permitting delays as well as potential increases in costs. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. Rules recently finalized regulating air emissions from oil and natural gas operations could cause us to incur increased capital expenditures and operating costs. In August 2012, the EPA adopted rules that subject oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, and storage operations to regulation under the NSPS and NESHAP programs. The EPA’s final rule includes NSPS standards for completions of hydraulically fractured wells and establishes specific new requirements for emissions from compressors, controllers, dehydrators, storage vessels, natural gas processing plants and certain other equipment. The new rules became effective October 15, 2012; however, a number of the requirements did not take immediate effect. The final rule establishes a phase-in period to allow for the manufacture and distribution of required emissions reduction technology. During the first phase, ending December 31, 2014, owners and operators must either flare their emissions or use emissions reduction technology called “green completions” technologies already deployed at wells. On or after January 1, 2015, all newly fractured wells will be required to use green completions. Controls for certain storage vessels and pneumatic controllers may phase-in over one year beginning on August 16, 2012, which is the date the final rule was published in the Federal Register, while certain compressors, dehydrators and other equipment must comply with the final rule immediately or up to three years and 60 days after publication of the final rule, depending on the construction date and/or nature of the unit. We continue to evaluate the EPA’s final rule, as it may require changes to our operations, including the installation of new emissions control equipment. The cost of decommissioning is uncertain. We are required to maintain reserve funds to provide for the payment of our proportionate share of decommissioning costs associated with the Beta properties. The estimates of decommissioning costs are inherently imprecise and subject to change due to changing cost estimates, oil and natural gas prices and other factors. If actual decommissioning costs exceed such estimates, or we are required to provide a significant amount of collateral in cash or other security as a result of a revision to such estimates, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. 55 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity and incur debt. Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. Also, as with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions to our unitholders and the implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank similar yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price, our ability to issue additional equity or incur debt, and the cost to us of any such issuance or incurrence. Expenses not covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain insurance coverage against potential losses that we believe is customary in the industry. However, these policies may not cover all liabilities, claims, fines, penalties or costs and expenses that we may incur in connection with our business and operations, including those related to environmental claims. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable. A loss not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our general partner and its affiliates own a controlling interest in us and will have conflicts of interest with, and owe limited fiduciary duties to, us, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. Our general partner has control over all decisions related to our operations. Memorial Resource owns 100% of the voting membership interests in our general partner and all of our subordinated units. As of February 28, 2013, Memorial Resource owns an approximate aggregate 24.4% of our outstanding common units. The Funds, in turn, collectively own 100% of Memorial Resource. The directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to the owners of our general partner. However, certain directors and officers of our general partner are directors and/or officers of affiliates of our general partner (including Memorial Resource, the Funds and NGP), and certain of our general partner’s executive officers and directors will continue to have economic interests, investments and other economic incentives in the Funds and other NGP-affiliated entities. Conflicts of interest may arise in the future between our general partner and its affiliates (including Memorial Resource, the Funds and NGP), on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders and us. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. These potential conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Memorial Resource, the Funds or NGP to pursue a business strategy that favors us. The directors and officers of Memorial Resource, the Funds and their respective affiliates (including NGP) have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of their respective equity holders, which may be contrary to our interests; • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as its owner, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; 56 Table of Contents • Memorial Resource, the Funds and their affiliates (including NGP) are not limited in their ability to compete with us, including with respect to future acquisition opportunities, and are under no obligation to offer assets to us; • except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; • many of the officers and directors of our general partner who provide services to us devote time to affiliates of our general partner, including Memorial Resource, the Funds, and/or NGP, and may be compensated for services rendered to such affiliates; • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, reductions, and restrictions, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. By purchasing common units, unitholders are consenting to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of our drilling program and related capital expenditures, asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership interests, other investments, including investment capital expenditures in other partnerships with which our general partner is or may become affiliated, and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; • our general partner determines whether a cash expenditure is classified as a growth capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner, the amount of adjusted operating surplus in any given period and the ability of the subordinated units to convert into common units; • we and our general partner have entered into an omnibus agreement with Memorial Resource, pursuant to which among other things, Memorial Resource operates our assets and performs other management, administrative, and operating services for us and our general partner; • our general partner is entitled to determine which costs, including allocated overhead, incurred by it and its affiliates, including Memorial Resource, are reimbursable by us, which will include salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to persons who perform services for us or on our behalf, and expenses allocated to our general partner by its affiliates; • our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; • our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $30.5 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to our general partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights; • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants, or others to perform services for us; • our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; 57 Table of Contents • our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; and • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including Memorial Resource, the Funds and NGP. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Memorial Resource, the Funds and other affiliates of our general partner are not limited in their ability to compete with us, which could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses. Our partnership agreement provides that Memorial Resource and the Funds and their respective affiliates (including NGP and its affiliates’ portfolio investments) are not restricted from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, Memorial Resource and the Funds and their respective affiliates may acquire, develop or dispose of additional oil and natural gas properties or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or develop any of those assets. NGP and the Funds are established participants in the oil and natural gas industry, and have resources greater than ours, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with them with respect to commercial activities as well as for potential acquisitions. As a result, competition from these affiliates could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Neither we nor our general partner have any employees and we rely solely on the employees of Memorial Resource to manage our business. The management team of Memorial Resource, which includes the individuals who manage us, also performs substantially similar services for Memorial Resource and its assets, and thus is not solely focused on our business. Neither we nor our general partner have any employees and we rely solely on Memorial Resource to operate our assets. We and our general partner have entered into an omnibus agreement with Memorial Resource, pursuant to which, among other things, Memorial Resource agreed to operate our assets and perform other management, administrative, and operating services for us and our general partner. Memorial Resource provides substantially similar activities with respect to its own assets and operations. Because Memorial Resource provides services to us that are substantially similar to those performed for itself, Memorial Resource may not have sufficient human, technical and other resources to provide those services at a level that Memorial Resource would be able to provide to us if it were solely focused on our business and operations. Memorial Resource may make internal decisions on how to allocate its available resources and expertise that may not always be in our best interest compared to Memorial Resource’s interests. There is no requirement that Memorial Resource favor us over itself in providing its services. If the employees of Memorial Resource and their affiliates do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business, our financial results may suffer and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders may be reduced. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our units. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our units. 58 Table of Contents Many of the directors and all of the officers who have responsibility for our management have significant duties with, and spend significant time serving, entities that may compete with us in seeking acquisitions and business opportunities and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating time or pursuing business opportunities. To maintain and increase our levels of production, we will need to acquire oil and natural gas properties. All of the officers of our general partner hold similar positions with Memorial Resource, and many of the directors of our general partner, who are responsible for managing our general partner’s direction of our operations and acquisition activities, hold positions of responsibility with other entities (including NGP-affiliated entities) that are in the business of identifying and acquiring oil and natural gas properties. For example, the Funds and their affiliates (including NGP) are in the business of investing in oil and natural gas companies with independent management teams that also seek to acquire oil and natural gas properties, and Memorial Resource is in the business of acquiring and developing oil and natural gas properties. Mr. Hersh, a director of our general partner, is the Chief Executive Officer of NGP Energy Capital Management and a managing partner of NGP; Mr. Gieselman, a director of our general partner, is a managing director of NGP; Mr. Weber, a director of our general partner, is a senior managing director of NGP and serves as Chief Investment Coordinator for NGP; and Mr. Weinzierl, the President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the board of directors of our general partner, was a managing director and operating partner of NGP before our initial public offering and continues to hold ownership interests in the Funds and certain of their affiliates. Officers of our general partner will continue to devote significant time to the business of Memorial Resource. We cannot assure you that any conflicts that may arise between us and our unitholders, on the one hand, and Memorial Resource or the Funds, on the other hand, will be resolved in our favor. The existing positions held by these directors and officers may give rise to fiduciary or other duties that are in conflict with the duties they owe to us. These officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as to the other entities with which they are or may become affiliated. Due to these existing and potential future affiliations, they may present potential business opportunities to other entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. They may also decide that certain opportunities are more appropriate for other entities with which they are affiliated, and as a result, they may elect not to present those opportunities to us. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. For additional discussion of our management’s business affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest of which our unitholders should be aware, see “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Cost reimbursements due to Memorial Resource and our general partner for services provided to us or on our behalf will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires us to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all actual direct and indirect expenses they incur or actual payments they make on our behalf and all other expenses allocable to us or otherwise incurred by our general partner or its affiliates in connection with operating our business, including overhead allocated to our general partner by its affiliates, including Memorial Resource. These expenses include salary, bonus, incentive compensation (including equity compensation) and other amounts paid to persons who perform services for us or on our behalf, and expenses allocated to our general partner by its affiliates. Our general partner is entitled to determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. Prior to making distributions on our common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all such expenses. None of these reimbursements are capped. The reimbursements to Memorial Resource and our general partner will reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. We have entered into agreements with Memorial Resource and our general partner pursuant to which, among other things, we will make payments to Memorial Resource. These payments will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. These agreements include the following: • an omnibus agreement pursuant to which, among other things, Memorial Resource provides management, administrative and operating services for us and our general partner; and 59 Table of Contents • a tax sharing agreement pursuant to which we pay Memorial Resource (or its applicable affiliate(s)) our share of state and local income and other taxes for which our results are included in a combined or consolidated tax return filed by Memorial Resource or its applicable affiliate(s). It is possible that Memorial Resource or its applicable affiliate(s) may use its tax attributes to cause its combined or consolidated group, of which we may be a member for this purpose, to owe less or no tax. In such a situation, we would pay Memorial Resource or its applicable affiliate(s) the tax we would have owed had the tax attributes not been available or used for our benefit, even though Memorial Resource or its applicable affiliate(s) had no cash tax expense for that period. Currently, the Texas margin tax (which has a maximum effective tax rate of 0.7% of federal gross income apportioned to Texas) is the only tax that is included in a combined or consolidated tax return with Memorial Resource or its applicable affiliate(s). Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. Our general partner has the right (but not the obligation), at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (25%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following any reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash contribution per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”) and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and general partner units. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will be equal to that number of common units which would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. Our general partner will be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain our general partner’s interest in us that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right (if at all) to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units and general partner units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. 60 Table of Contents Our unitholders who fail to furnish certain information requested by our general partner or who our general partner determines are not eligible citizens may not be entitled to receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation and their common units will be subject to redemption. We have the right to redeem all of the units of any holder that is not an eligible citizen if we are or become subject to federal, state, or local laws or regulations that, in the reasonable determination of our general partner, create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property in which we have an interest because of the nationality, citizenship or other related status of any limited partner. Our general partner may require any limited partner or transferee to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or related status. If a limited partner fails to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or other related status within 30 days after a request for the information or our general partner determines after receipt of the information that the limited partner is not an eligible citizen, the limited partner may be treated as a non-citizen assignee. A non-citizen assignee does not have the right to direct the voting of his units and may not receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation. Furthermore, we have the right to redeem all of the common units and subordinated units of any holder that is not an eligible citizen or fails to furnish the requested information. Common units held by persons who are non-taxpaying assignees will be subject to the possibility of redemption. If our general partner determines that our not being treated as an association taxable as a corporation or otherwise taxable as an entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, coupled with the tax status (or lack of proof thereof) of one or more of our limited partners, has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our assets or generate revenues from our assets, then our general partner may adopt such amendments to our partnership agreement as it determines are necessary or advisable to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status of our limited partners (and their owners, to the extent relevant) and permit us to redeem the units held by any person whose tax status has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our assets or generate revenues from our assets or who fails to comply with the procedures instituted by our general partner to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status. Our unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its board of directors. Memorial Resource, as owner of our general partner, has the power to appoint and remove our general partner’s directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will not elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is appointed by Memorial Resource. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our general partner has control over all decisions related to our operations. Since Memorial Resource owns our general partner, approximately 24.4% of our outstanding common units, and all of our subordinated units, the other unitholders will not have an ability to influence any operating decisions and will not be able to prevent us from entering into any transactions. Our partnership agreement generally may not be amended during the subordination period without the approval of our public common unitholders. However, our partnership agreement can be amended with the consent of our general partner and the approval of the holders of a majority of our outstanding common units (including common units held by Memorial Resource and its affiliates) after the subordination period has ended. Assuming we do not issue any additional common units and Memorial Resource does not transfer its common units, Memorial Resource has the ability to amend our partnership agreement, including our policy to distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders, without the approval of any other unitholder once the subordination period ends. Furthermore, the goals and objectives of Memorial Resource and its affiliates that hold our common units relating to us may not be consistent with those of a majority of the other unitholders. Please read “— Our general partner and its affiliates own a controlling interest in us and will have conflicts of interest with, and owe limited fiduciary duties to, us, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders.” 61 Table of Contents Our general partner will be required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from our operating surplus, which may result in less cash available for distribution to unitholders from operating surplus than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. Maintenance capital expenditures are those capital expenditures required to maintain our long-term asset base, including expenditures to replace our oil and natural gas reserves (including non-proved reserves attributable to undeveloped leasehold acreage), whether through the development, exploitation and production of an existing leasehold or the acquisition or development of a new oil or natural gas property. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus in determining cash available for distribution from operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus will be subject to review and change by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner at least once a year. Our partnership agreement does not cap the amount of maintenance capital expenditures that our general partner may estimate. In years when our estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders from operating surplus will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures had been deducted from operating surplus. On the other hand, if our general partner underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we will have more cash available for distribution from operating surplus in the short term but will have less cash available for distribution from operating surplus in future periods when we have to increase our estimated maintenance capital expenditures to account for the previous underestimation. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, the exercise of its rights to transfer or vote the units it owns, the exercise of its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation involving us or to any amendment to our partnership agreement; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith and with the honest belief that the decision was in our best interest; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner acting in good faith and not involving a vote of unitholders must be (i) on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or (ii) must be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith. In determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and 62 Table of Contents • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision our general partner’s board of directors or the conflicts committee of our general partner’s board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder will become bound by the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Even if our unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without Memorial Resource’s consent. The public unitholders will be unable initially to remove our general partner without Memorial Resource’s consent because Memorial Resource owns sufficient units to be able to prevent our general partner’s removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. As of February 28, 2013, Memorial Resource owns our general partner, approximately 24.4% of our outstanding common units, and all of our subordinated units, which together constitutes approximately 36.2% of all outstanding units. Control of our general partner and its incentive distribution rights may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of Memorial Resource from transferring all or a portion of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with their own choices and thereby influence the decisions made by the board of directors and officers in a manner that may not be aligned with the interests of our unitholders. In addition, our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its incentive distribution rights. A default under Memorial Resource’s credit facility could result in a change of ownership or control of our general partner or us, which would be an event of default under our revolving credit facility. Memorial Resource has pledged all of its common units and subordinated units in us, as well as its ownership interest in our general partner, as security under its senior secured revolving credit facility. That credit facility contains customary and other events of default relating to defaults of Memorial Resource. As a result, our ownership is subject to change if Memorial Resource were to default under its credit facility and Memorial Resource’s lenders exercise their rights over the pledged collateral, even if we do not have any borrowings outstanding under that credit facility. A change of control would constitute an event of default under our revolving credit facility and could affect the market price of our common units. We may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash from reserves established by our general partner, working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions to our unitholders during periods when we record net losses and may not make cash distributions to our unitholders during periods when we record net income. 63 Table of Contents We may issue an unlimited number of additional units, including units that are senior to the common units, without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholders’ ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional common units that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of our common units may decline. Our partnership agreement restricts the limited voting rights of unitholders, other than our general partner and its affiliates, owning 20% or more of our common units, which may limit the ability of significant unitholders to influence the manner or direction of management. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ limited voting rights by providing that any common units held by a person, entity or group that owns 20% or more of any class of common units then outstanding (other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such common units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner) cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Memorial Resource may sell common units, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. As of February 28, 2013, Memorial Resource owns approximately 24.4% of our outstanding common units and all of our subordinated units, which convert into common units at the end of the subordination period. Sales by Memorial Resource of a substantial number of our common units, including common units issued upon the conversion of the subordinated units, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain further capital through additional offerings of equity securities. Our general partner has a call right that may require common unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is the greater of (i) the highest cash price paid by either of our general partner or any of its affiliates for any common units purchased within the 90 days preceding the date on which our general partner first mails notice of its election to purchase those common units; and (ii) the average daily closing prices of our common units over the 20 days preceding the date three days before the date the notice is mailed. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders also may incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units. As of February 28, 2013, Memorial Resource owns approximately 24.4% of our outstanding common units and all of our subordinated units. 64 Table of Contents If we distribute cash from capital surplus, which is analogous to a return of capital, our minimum quarterly distribution will be reduced proportionately, and the distribution thresholds after which the incentive distribution rights entitle our general partner to an increased percentage of distributions will be proportionately decreased. Our cash distributions will be characterized as coming from either operating surplus or capital surplus. Operating surplus is defined in our partnership agreement, and generally means amounts we receive from operating sources, such as sale of our oil and natural gas production, less operating expenditures, such as production costs and taxes, and less estimated average capital expenditures, which are generally amounts we estimate we will need to spend in the future to maintain our production levels over the long term. Capital surplus is defined in our partnership agreement, and generally would result from cash received from non-operating sources such as sales of properties and issuances of debt and equity interests. Cash representing capital surplus, therefore, is analogous to a return of capital. Distributions of capital surplus are made to our unitholders and our general partner in proportion to their percentage interests in us, or 99.9% to our unitholders and 0.1% to our general partner, and will result in a decrease in our minimum quarterly distribution. Our partnership agreement allows us to add to operating surplus $30.5 million. As a result, a portion of this amount, which is analogous to a return of capital, may be distributed to the general partner and its affiliates, as holders of incentive distribution rights, rather than to holders of common units as a return of capital. Our unitholders’ liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. A unitholder could be liable for our obligations as if it was a general partner if: • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • a unitholder’s right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Our unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make distributions to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to us are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of common units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to us that are known to such purchaser of common units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. 65 Table of Contents We have the right to borrow to make distributions. Repayment of these borrowings will decrease cash available for future distributions, and covenants in our revolving credit facility may restrict our ability to make distributions. Our partnership agreement allows us to borrow to make distributions. We may make short-term borrowings under our revolving credit facility to make distributions. The primary purpose of these borrowings would be to mitigate the effects of short-term fluctuation in our working capital that would otherwise cause volatility in our quarter-to-quarter distributions. The terms of our revolving credit facility restrict our ability to pay distributions if we do not satisfy the financial and other covenants in the facility. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow our reserves and production. Our partnership agreement provides that we will distribute all of our available cash each quarter. As a result, we may be dependent on the issuance of additional common units and other partnership securities and borrowings to finance our growth. A number of factors will affect our ability to issue securities and borrow money to finance growth, as well as the costs of such financings, including: • general economic and market conditions, including interest rates, prevailing at the time we desire to issue securities or borrow funds; • conditions in the oil and natural gas industry; • the market price of, and demand for, our common units; • our results of operations and financial condition; and • prices for oil, NGLs and natural gas. NASDAQ does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. Our common units are listed on NASDAQ Global Market. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, NASDAQ does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner’s board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a “qualifying income” requirement. Based upon our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. However, we have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. 66 Table of Contents If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our units. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas margin tax each year at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of our gross income apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Imposition of any similar taxes by any other state may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders and, therefore, negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. One such legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Any modification to U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the qualifying income requirement to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, or IDCs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could increase the taxable income allocable to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. 67 Table of Contents If the IRS contests any of the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our units may be adversely affected, and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Our unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income, which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our total net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units they sell will, in effect, become taxable income to them if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation, depletion and IDC recapture. In addition, because the amount realized may include a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if they sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in our units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts, or IRAs, and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Prospective unitholders who are tax-exempt entities or non-U.S. persons should consult their tax advisor before investing in our units. We will treat each purchaser of units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation, depletion and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of units and could have a negative impact on the value of our units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder’s tax returns. 68 Table of Contents We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, however, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units) may be considered to have disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequence of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan of their units are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. We will adopt certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for U.S. federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. 69 Table of Contents The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same unit will be counted only once. While we would continue our existence as a Delaware limited partnership, our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. A technical termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a technical termination occurred. As a result of investing in our units, our unitholders may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future even if such unitholders do not live in those jurisdictions. Our unitholders likely will be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own property and conduct business in Texas, Louisiana, and California. Louisiana and California currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. These states also impose an income or franchise tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is a unitholder’s responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 