Item 1A. Risk FactorsYou should carefully read and consider the following risks and uncertainties. We may encounter risks in addition to those described below, including risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. The risks described below, as well as such additional risks and uncertainties, may impair or materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our BusinessIf we do not effectively manage our credit risk, we may experience increased levels of delinquencies, nonperforming loans, and charge-offs, which would require increases in our provision for loan and lease losses.There are risks inherent in making any loan or lease, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and cash flows available to service debt and risks resulting from changes in economic and market conditions. We cannot assure you that our credit risk approval and monitoring procedures will identify all of these credit risks, and they cannot be expected to completely eliminate our credit 17Table of Contentsrisks. If the overall economic climate in the United States, generally, or our market areas, specifically, fails to improve, or even if it does improve, our borrowers may experience difficulties in repaying their loans and leases, and the level of nonperforming loans and leases, charge-offs and delinquencies could rise and require increases in the provision for loan and lease losses, which would cause our net income and return on equity to decrease.Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses.We establish our allowance for loan and lease losses and maintain it at a level considered appropriate by management based on an analysis of our portfolio and market environment. The allowance for loan and lease losses represents our estimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio at each balance sheet date and is based upon relevant information available to us. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific relationships, as well as probable losses inherent in our loan and lease portfolio that are not specifically identified. Additions to the allowance for loan and lease losses, which are charged to earnings through the provision for loan and lease losses, are determined based on a variety of factors, including an analysis of our loan and lease portfolio by segment, historical loss experience and an evaluation of current economic conditions in our market areas. The actual amount of loan and lease losses is affected by changes in economic, operating and other conditions within our markets, which may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed current estimates.At December 31, 2013, our allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases was 1.42% and as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases was 87.7%. Although management believes that the allowance for loan and lease losses is appropriate, we may be required to take additional provisions for losses in the future to further supplement the allowance, either due to management’s decision to do so or requirements by our banking regulators. In addition, bank regulatory agencies will periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses and the value attributed to nonaccrual loans or to properties acquired through foreclosure. Such regulatory agencies may require us to adjust our determination of the value for these items. Any significant increases to the allowance for loan and lease losses may materially decrease our net income, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.A significant portion of our loan and lease portfolio is comprised of commercial real estate loans, which involve risks specific to real estate values and the real estate markets in general. At December 31, 2013 we had $645.1 million of commercial real estate loans, which represented 65.7% of our total loan portfolio. Because payments on such loans are often dependent on the successful operation or development of the property or business involved, repayment of such loans is often more sensitive than other types of loans to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the general economy, which are outside the borrower’s control. In the event that the cash flow from the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan could be negatively impacted. The deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a material increase in our level of nonperforming loans, which would result in a loss of revenue from these loans and could result in an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our net income. Additionally, many of these loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of economic conditions. Adverse developments affecting real estate values in one or more of our markets could impact collateral coverage associated with the commercial real estate segment of our portfolio, possibly leading to increased specific reserves or charge-offs, which would adversely affect profitability.A large portion of our loan and lease portfolio is comprised of commercial loans secured by various business assets, the deterioration in value of which could increase our exposure to future probable losses.At December 31, 2013, approximately 29.9%, or $293.6 million, of our loan and lease portfolio was comprised of commercial loans to businesses collateralized by general business assets including accounts receivable, inventory, and equipment. Our commercial loans are typically larger in amount than loans to individual consumers and, therefore, have the potential for larger losses on an individual loan basis. Additionally, asset‑based borrowers are usually highly leveraged and/or have inconsistent historical earnings. Significant adverse changes in various industries could cause rapid declines in values and collectability associated with those business assets resulting in inadequate collateral coverage that may expose us to future losses. An increase in specific reserves and charge-offs may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future.At December 31, 2013, our nonperforming loans totaled $15.9 million, or 1.61% of our loan and lease portfolio, and our nonperforming assets (which include nonperforming loans and foreclosed properties) totaled $16.2 million, or 1.28% of total assets. 18Table of ContentsOur nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans or foreclosed properties, thereby adversely affecting our net income and returns on assets and equity, increasing our loan administration costs and adversely affecting our efficiency ratio. When we take collateral in foreclosure and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the collateral to its then net realizable value, less estimated selling costs, which may result in a loss. These nonperforming loans and foreclosed properties also increase our risk profile and the capital our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. The resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant time commitments from management and can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. If we experience increases in nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets, our net interest income may be negatively impacted and our loan administration costs could increase, each of which could have an adverse effect on our net income and related ratios, such as return on assets and equity.Real estate construction and land development loans are based upon estimates of costs and values associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate, and we may be exposed to significant losses on loans for these projects.Real estate construction and land development loans comprised approximately 7.0% of our total loan and lease portfolio as of December 31, 2013, and such lending involves additional risks because funds are advanced upon the as-completed value of the project, which is uncertain prior to its completion, and costs may exceed realizable values in declining real estate markets. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs and the realizable market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If the appraisal of the completed project’s value proves to be overstated or market values or rental rates decline, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to or at completion due to a default, we may not be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan and may incur related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete the project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time while we attempt to dispose of it.Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.Although it has recently shown certain signs of improvement, since late 2007, the U.S. economy has generally experienced challenging economic conditions. Business activity across a range of industries and regions remains reduced from historical levels under more favorable economic conditions. Likewise, many local governments have been experiencing certain difficulties, including lower tax revenues, which have impacted their ability to cover costs. Unemployment also remains at elevated levels. Under conditions such as these in the past, the financial services industry has been affected by declines in the values of various significant asset classes and the lack of opportunities to originate new loans. While these challenges are generally less severe today than during certain periods in the recent past, their impact continues to be felt, particularly with respect to loan originations. As a result of these economic conditions, many lending institutions, including the Banks, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans from historical norms in recent years. Moreover, competition among depository institutions, particularly for quality loans, has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans remain below previous levels and may decline in the future. There have been significant new laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, with a potential for further regulation in the future, and bank regulatory agencies in general have been diligent in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including through formal or informal enforcement actions or orders. The impact of new legislation in response to these developments may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance or our stock price.In addition, if the overall economic climate in the United States, generally, or our market areas, specifically, fails to continue to improve, this may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions likely would exacerbate the adverse effects on us and others in the financial services industry noted above.19Table of ContentsOur business is concentrated in and largely dependent upon the continued growth and welfare of the general geographical markets in which we operate.Our operations are heavily concentrated in the South Central region of Wisconsin and to a lesser extent the Southeastern and Northeastern regions of Wisconsin, and, as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are significantly impacted by changes in the economic conditions in those areas. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets. Although our clients’ business and financial interests may extend well beyond these market areas, adverse economic conditions that affect these market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our clients to repay their loans to us, affect the value of collateral underlying loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because of our geographic concentration, we are less able than other regional or national financial institutions to diversify our credit risks across multiple markets. Although, in general, the Wisconsin economy and real estate market were not affected as severely as some other areas of the United States during the challenging economic environment of recent years, they are not immune to challenging economic conditions that affect the United States and world economies.Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to effectively execute our strategic plan or manage the growth called for in our strategic plan.Among other things, our strategic plan currently calls for maintaining strong asset quality, generating in-market core deposits to improve our net interest margin and increasing fee income. Our ability to increase profitability in accordance with this plan will depend on a variety of factors including the identification of desirable business opportunities, competitive responses from financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage liquidity and funding sources. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully execute our strategic plan, we cannot guarantee that opportunities will be available and that the strategic plan will be successful or effectively executed.Although we do not have any current definitive plans to do so, in implementing our strategic plan we may expand into additional communities or attempt to strengthen our position in our current markets through opportunistic acquisitions of similar or complementary financial services organizations. To the extent that we open new offices or undertake acquisitions, we are likely to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have an adverse effect on our levels of reported net income, return on average equity and return on average assets. Other effects of engaging in such growth strategies may include potential diversion of our management’s time and attention and general disruption to our business.To the extent that we grow through additional office openings, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately and profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks and businesses will involve similar risks to those commonly associated with branching, but may also involve additional risks, including potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and businesses we acquire and exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired bank or related business.Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits.The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted.We operate in a highly regulated industry and the laws and regulations that govern our operations, corporate governance, executive compensation and accounting principles, or changes in them, or our failure to comply with them, may adversely affect us.We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision that govern almost all aspects of our operations. Intended to protect clients, these laws and regulations, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements, impose limitations 20Table of Contentson our business activities, limit the dividends or distributions that we can pay, restrict the ability of institutions to guarantee our debt and impose certain specific accounting requirements that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in our capital than generally accepted accounting principles. Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly and changes to laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs. Further, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure was inadvertent or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject us to restrictions on our business activities, fines and other penalties, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, capital base and the price of our securities.Recent legislative and regulatory reforms applicable to the financial services industry may have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The laws, regulations, rules, policies and regulatory interpretations governing us are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time as Congress and various regulatory agencies react to adverse economic conditions or other matters. The global financial crisis of 2008-09 served as a catalyst for a number of significant changes in the financial services industry, including the Dodd-Frank Act, which reformed the regulation of financial institutions in a comprehensive manner, and the Basel III regulatory capital reforms, which will increase both the amount and quality of capital that financial institutions must hold. The Dodd-Frank Act, together with the regulations developed and to be developed thereunder, affects large and small financial institutions alike, including several provisions that impact how community banks, thrifts and small bank and thrift holding companies will operate in the future. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act changes the base for FDIC insurance assessments to a bank’s average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than its deposit base, permanently raises the current standard deposit insurance limit to $250,000, and expands the FDIC’s authority to raise the premiums we pay for deposit insurance. The legislation allows financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts, contains provisions on mortgage-related matters (such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrower’s ability to repay and prepayment penalties) and establishes the CFPB as an independent entity within the Federal Reserve. This entity has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards. Moreover, the Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions that affect corporate governance and executive compensation at all publicly traded companies.In addition, in July 2013, the U.S. federal banking authorities approved the implementation of the Basel III Rule. The Basel III Rule is applicable to all U.S. banks that are subject to minimum capital requirements as well as to bank and saving and loan holding companies, other than “small bank holding companies” (generally bank holding companies with consolidated assets of less than $500 million). The Basel III Rule not only increases most of the required minimum regulatory capital ratios, it introduces a new Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio and the concept of a capital conservation buffer. The Basel III Rule also expands the current definition of capital by establishing additional criteria that capital instruments must meet to be considered Additional Tier 1 Capital (i.e., Tier 1 Capital in addition to Common Equity) and Tier 2 Capital. A number of instruments that now generally qualify as Tier 1 Capital will not qualify or their qualifications will change when the Basel III Rule is fully implemented. However, the Basel III Rule permits banking organizations with less than $15 billion in assets to retain, through a one-time election, the existing treatment for accumulated other comprehensive income, which currently does not affect regulatory capital. The Basel III Rule has maintained the general structure of the current prompt corrective action thresholds while incorporating the increased requirements, including the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio. In order to be a “well-capitalized” depository institution under the new regime, an institution must maintain a Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio of 6.5% or more, a Tier 1 Capital ratio of 8% or more, a Total Capital ratio of 10% or more, and a leverage ratio of 5% or more. Institutions must also maintain a capital conservation buffer consisting of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital. Generally, financial institutions will become subject to the Basel III Rule on January 1, 2015 with a phase-in period through 2019 for many of the changes.The implementation of these provisions, as well as any other aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, will impact the profitability of our business activities and may change certain of our business practices, including the ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to operations in order to comply, and could therefore also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our management is actively reviewing the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the Basel III Rule, many of which are to be phased-in over the next several months and years, and assessing the probable impact on our operations. However, the ultimate effect of these changes on the financial services industry in general, and us in particular, is uncertain at this time.21Table of ContentsWe are periodically subject to examination and scrutiny by a number of banking agencies and, depending upon the findings and determinations of these agencies, we may be required to make adjustments to our business that could adversely affect us.Federal and state banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a federal banking agency was to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, asset concentration, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, sensitivity to market risk or other aspects of any of our operations has become unsatisfactory, or that we or our management is in violation of any law or regulation, it could take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to change the asset composition of our portfolio or balance sheet, to assess civil monetary penalties against our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance. If we become subject to such regulatory actions, our business, results of operations and reputation may be negatively impacted.The repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense.On July 21, 2011, all federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, some financial institutions have commenced offering interest on these demand deposits to compete for clients. Although this development has not meaningfully impacted our interest expense in the current low-interest-rate, high-liquidity environment in which competition among financial institutions for deposits is generally low, competitive pressures in the future may require us to pay increased interest on these demand deposits to attract and retain business clients, in which case our interest expense would increase and our net interest margin would decrease. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our ability to implement our business strategy will depend on our liquidity and ability to obtain funding for loan originations, working capital and other general purposes. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our preferred source of funds consists of customer deposits, which we supplement with other sources such as brokered deposits. Such account and deposit balances can decrease when clients perceive alternative investments as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If clients move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, we may increase our utilization of brokered deposits, FHLB advances and other wholesale funding sources necessary to fund desired growth levels. Because these funds generally are more sensitive to interest rate changes than our core deposits, they are more likely to move to the highest rate available. In addition, the use of brokered deposits without regulatory approval is limited to banks that are “well capitalized” according to regulation. As of December 31, 2013, 40.6% of FBB’s total deposits and 7.7% of FBB-Milwaukee’s total deposits were brokered deposits. If the Banks are unable to maintain their capital levels at “well capitalized” minimums, we could lose a significant source of funding, which would force us to utilize different wholesale funding or potentially sell assets at a time when pricing may be unfavorable, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income.Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. Regional and community banks generally have less access to the capital markets than do national and super‑regional banks because of their smaller size and limited analyst coverage. During periods of economic turmoil or decline, the financial services industry and the credit markets generally may be materially and adversely affected by declines in asset values and by diminished liquidity. As demonstrated by the recent financial crisis, under such circumstances the liquidity issues are often particularly acute for regional and community banks, as larger financial institutions may curtail their lending to regional and community banks to reduce their exposure to the risks of other banks. Correspondent lenders may also reduce or even eliminate federal funds lines for their correspondent clients in difficult economic times.As a result, we rely on our ability to generate deposits and effectively manage the repayment and maturity schedules of our loans and investment securities, respectively, to ensure that we have adequate liquidity to fund our operations. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, pay dividends to our shareholders or fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations.22Table of ContentsWe rely on our management, and the loss of one or more of those managers may harm our business.Our success has been and will be greatly influenced by our continuing ability to retain the services of our existing senior management and, if we expand, to attract and retain additional qualified senior and middle management. The unexpected loss of key management personnel or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, our failure to develop and/or maintain an effective succession plan will impede our ability to quickly and effectively react to unexpected loss of key management and in turn may have an adverse effect on our business. On February 20, 2014, Mr. James F. Ropella, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer announced his plans to retire from his position during the fourth quarter of 2014. Mr. Ropella will remain in his position as we conduct a thorough search for his replacement and we anticipate establishing a longer-term consulting arrangement with Mr. Ropella following his retirement. There can be no guarantee that we will find a suitable successor to Mr. Ropella by the fourth quarter of 2014. Additionally, the search for Mr. Ropella’s successor will require significant time and focus from our senior management and board of directors, which could adversely affect our business if we fail to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the demands of conducting such a search. Interest rate shifts may reduce net interest income and otherwise negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.Shifts in short-term interest rates may reduce net interest income, which is the principal component of our earnings. Net interest income is the difference between the amounts received by us on our interest‑earning assets and the interest paid by us on our interest‑bearing liabilities. In certain scenarios, when interest rates rise, the rate of interest we pay on our liabilities may rise more quickly than the rate of interest that we receive on our interest‑bearing assets, which could cause our profits to decrease. However, the structure of our balance sheet and resultant sensitivity to interest rates in various scenarios may change in the future.Additionally, interest rate increases often result in larger payment requirements for our borrowers, which increases the potential for default. At the same time, the marketability of underlying collateral may be adversely affected by any reduced demand resulting from higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there may be an increase in prepayments on certain loans as borrowers refinance at lower rates.Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in nonperforming assets and a reduction of income recognized, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Further, when we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse any accrued but unpaid interest receivable, which decreases interest income. Subsequently, we continue to have a cost to fund the loan, which is reflected as interest expense, without any interest income to offset the associated funding expense. Thus, an increase in the amount of nonperforming assets would have an adverse impact on net interest income.Rising interest rates may also result in a decline in value of our fixed-rate debt securities. The unrealized losses resulting from holding these securities would be recognized in other comprehensive income and reduce total stockholders’ equity. If debt securities in an unrealized loss position are sold, such losses become realized and will reduce our regulatory capital ratios. The risk of net interest margin compression is typically heightened during prolonged periods of low short-term interest rates, such as that which the financial service industry has been experiencing in recent years and is expected to continue to face in the near future. This may have a material adverse effect on our net interest income and our results of operations.We could recognize losses on securities held in our securities portfolio, particularly if interest rates increase or economic and market conditions deteriorate.As of December 31, 2013, the fair value of our securities portfolio was approximately $180.1 million. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. For example, fixed-rate securities acquired by us are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise. Additional factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults by the issuer or individual mortgagors with respect to the underlying securities, and instability in the credit markets. Any of the foregoing factors could cause other-than-temporary impairment in future periods and result in realized losses. The process for determining whether impairment is other-than-temporary usually requires difficult, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of 23Table of Contentsreceiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting interest rates, the financial condition of issuers of the securities and the performance of the underlying collateral, we may recognize realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The Company is a bank holding company and its sources of funds necessary to meet its obligations are limited.The Company is a bank holding company, and its operations are primarily conducted by the Banks, which are subject to significant federal and state regulation. Cash available to pay dividends to our shareholders, pay our obligations and meet our debt service requirements is derived primarily from our existing cash flow sources, our third party line of credit, dividends received from the Banks, or a combination thereof. Future dividend payments by the Banks to us will require generation of future earnings by the Banks and are subject to certain regulatory guidelines. If the Banks are unable to pay dividends to us, we may not have the resources or cash flow to pay or meet all of our obligations.Competition from other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability.We encounter heavy competition in attracting commercial loan, equipment finance and deposit clients as well as trust and investment clients. We believe the principal factors that are used to attract quality clients and distinguish one financial institution from another include value‑added relationships, interest rates and rates of return, types of accounts, service fees, flexibility, and quality of service. Our competition includes banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies, credit unions, finance companies, equipment finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage firms and investment banking firms. We also compete with regional and national financial institutions that have a substantial presence in our market areas, many of which have greater liquidity, higher lending limits, greater access to capital, more established market recognition and more resources and collective experience than we do. In addition, some larger financial institutions that have not historically competed with us directly have substantial excess liquidity and have sought, and may continue to seek, smaller lending relationships in our target markets. Furthermore, tax-exempt credit unions operate in most of our market areas and aggressively price their products and services to a large portion of the market. Finally, technology has also lowered the barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services we have traditionally offered, such as automatic funds transfer and automatic payment systems. Our profitability depends, in part, upon our ability to successfully maintain and increase market share.We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions.Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us.Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, compensation risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. Our ability to successfully identify and manage risks facing us is an important factor that can significantly impact our results. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, clients or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors.Employee errors and employee and client misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our clients or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors or misconduct could also subject us to financial claims for negligence.24Table of ContentsWe maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate our operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and client or employee fraud. If our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If we are unable to keep pace with technological advances in our industry, our ability to attract and retain clients could be adversely affected.The banking industry is constantly subject to technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology‑driven products and services. In addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases our efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience as well as create additional efficiencies in our operations. A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements, as well as significant economies of scale. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement and offer new technology‑driven products and services to our clients. If we fail to do so, our ability to attract and retain clients may be adversely affected.A breach in security of our systems or our third‑party service providers’ communications and information technologies, including with respect to our internet banking activities, could have a material adverse effect on our business.We rely heavily on communications and information technology to conduct our business and internet banking activities. Any failure or interruption due to a breach in security, denial of service attack, malware and spyware or other disruptive activity by hackers could result in failures or disruptions in our general ledger, deposit, loan, investment management, debit card management system, electronic banking and other systems or those of our internet banking clients. As part of our business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client information on our behalf and on behalf of other third parties. Advances in computer capabilities or other developments could result in a breach of our systems designed to protect client data despite the security measures we have in place. We have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of such a failure or interruption due to a security breach or other events of our information systems; however, there can be no assurance that any such events will not occur or, if they do, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our or our internet banking clients’ information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of clients, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to litigation and possible financial liability which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Failure in any of these situations subjects us to risks that may vary in size and scope.In addition, we rely on third‑party service providers for a substantial portion of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. While we have selected these third‑party service providers carefully, we do not control their actions. If any of these third‑party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, security breaches, or if there is any disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources for these services. There can be no assurance that we could negotiate terms as favorable to us or obtain services with similar functionality as we currently have without the expenditure of substantial resources. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our business continuity plans could prove to be inadequate, resulting in a material interruption in or disruption to, our business and a negative impact on our results of operations.We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business, and our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our systems against damage from fire, power loss or telecommunication failure. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. These problems may arise in both our internally developed systems and the systems of our third‑party service providers. Any failure or interruption of these systems, whether due to severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, criminal activity or other factors, could result in failures or disruptions in general ledger, deposit, loan, client relationship management and other systems. While we have a business continuity plan and other policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of clients, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.25Table of ContentsOur trust and investment services operations may be negatively impacted by changes in economic and market conditions.Our trust and investment services operations may be negatively impacted by changes in general economic conditions and the conditions in the financial and securities markets, including the values of assets held under management. Our management contracts generally provide for fees payable for services based on the market value of assets under management. Because most of our contracts provide for a fee based on market values of securities, declines in securities prices will generally have an adverse effect on our results of operations from this business. Market declines and reductions in the value of our clients’ trust and investment services accounts could result in us losing trust and investment services clients, including those who are also banking clients.We are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to our fiduciary responsibilities.Some of the services we provide, such as trust and investment services, require us to act as fiduciaries for our clients and others. From time to time, third parties make claims and take legal action against us pertaining to the performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. If fiduciary investment decisions are not appropriately documented to justify action taken or trades are placed incorrectly, among other possible claims, and if these claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, we may be exposed to significant financial liability and/or our reputation could be damaged. Either of these results may adversely impact demand for our products and services or otherwise have a harmful effect on our business and, in turn, on our financial condition and results of operations.Negative publicity could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and financial results.Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital due to negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from our actual or alleged conduct in a number of activities, including lending practices, information security, management actions, corporate governance, and actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract clients, and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value.While we remain committed to organic growth, we also may consider acquisition opportunities involving complementary financial service organizations if the right situation were to arise. Various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, include, among other things:•Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company.•Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company.•Potential disruption to our business.•Potential diversion of our management’s time and attention.•Possible loss of key employees and clients of the target company.•Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company.•Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company.Acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to changes in accounting principles, policies or guidelines.Our financial performance is impacted by accounting principles, policies and guidelines. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If such estimates or assumptions underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses. 26Table of ContentsFrom time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in these standards are continuously occurring, and given recent economic conditions, more drastic changes may occur. The implementation of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our internal controls may be ineffective. Management regularly reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the controls are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could cause us to report a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting and conclude that our controls and procedures are not effective, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Risks Related to Investing in Our Common StockOur stock is thinly traded and our stock price can fluctuate.Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, low volume of trading activity and volatility in the price of our common stock may make it difficult for our shareholders to sell common stock when desired and at prices they find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things:•actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations;•recommendations by securities analysts;•operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;•news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry;•perceptions in the marketplace regarding us or our competitors and other financial services companies;•new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; and•changes in government regulations.General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results. To maintain adequate capital levels, we may be required to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed and/or could be dilutive to our existing shareholders.We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In order to ensure our ability to support the operations of the Banks we may need to limit or terminate cash dividends that can be paid to our shareholders. In addition, we may need to raise capital in the future. Our ability to raise capital, if needed, will depend in part on our financial performance and conditions in the capital markets at that time, and accordingly, we cannot guarantee our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us. In addition, if we decide to raise equity capital in the future, the interests of our shareholders could be diluted. Any issuance of common stock would dilute the ownership percentage of our current shareholders and any issuance of common stock at prices below tangible book value would dilute the tangible book value of each existing share of our common stock held by our current shareholders. The market price of our common stock could also decrease as a result of the sale of a large number of shares or similar securities, or the perception that such sales could occur. If we cannot raise capital when needed, our ability to serve as a source of strength to the Banks, pay dividends, maintain adequate capital levels and liquidity, or further expand our operations could be materially impaired.If equity research analysts publish research or reports about our business with unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price and trading volume of our common stock could decline.The trading market for our common stock could be affected by whether equity research analysts publish research or reports about us and our business and what is included in such research or reports. If equity analysts publish research reports about us containing unfavorable commentary, downgrade our stock or cease publishing reports about our business, the price of our stock could decline. If any analyst electing to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. If any 27Table of Contentsanalyst electing to cover us ceases coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our common stock price or trading volume to decline and our common stock to be less liquid.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone 