ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business strategy, which includes significant asset and liability growth, was recently adopted and implemented and has not yet had the time to be proven successful. If we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. In 2010, the Board of Directors of the Bank approved a strategic plan that contemplates significant growth in assets and liabilities over the next several years. Specifically, we intend to increase our commercial real estate loans, home equity lines of credit, commercial business loans and indirect automobile loans, while attracting favorably priced deposits. Depending on market conditions, we also intend to expand our branch network by at least two de novo or acquired branch offices over the next four years. We have incurred substantial additional expenses due to the implementation of our strategic plan, including salaries and occupancy expense related to new lending officers and related support staff, as well as marketing expenses. Many of these increased expenses are considered fixed expenses. Unless we can successfully implement our strategic plan, our financial condition and results of operations will continue to be negatively affected by these increased costs. The successful implementation of our strategic plan will require, among other things, that we increase our market share by attracting new customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in our market area. In addition, our ability to successfully grow will depend on several factors, including continued favorable market conditions, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market area, and our ability to maintain high asset quality as we increase our commercial real estate loans, home equity lines of credit, commercial business loans and indirect automobile loans. While we believe we have the management resources in place to successfully manage our future growth, growth opportunities may not be available and we may not be successful in implementing our business strategy. Further, it will take time to implement our business strategy, especially for our lenders to originate enough loans and for our branches to attract enough favorably priced deposits to generate the revenue needed to offset the associated expenses. In addition, our new strategic plan, even if successfully implemented, may not ultimately produce positive results. 35 Table of Contents Our branch network expansion strategy may negatively affect our financial performance. Depending on market conditions, we intend to expand our branch office network by at least two de novo or acquired branch offices over the next four years. This strategy may not generate earnings, or may not generate earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as a suitable location, qualified personnel, and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, it takes time for a new branch to originate sufficient loans and generate sufficient deposits to produce enough income to offset expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are considered fixed costs. Our loan portfolio has greater risk than those of many savings banks due to the substantial number of indirect automobile loans in our portfolio. We have a diversified loan portfolio with a substantial number of loans secured by collateral other than owner-occupied one- to-four family residential real estate. Our loan portfolio includes a substantial number of indirect automobile loans, which are automobile loans assigned to us by participating automobile dealerships upon our review and approval of such loans. At December 31, 2011, our indirect automobile loans totaled $66.4 million, or 13.0% of our total loan portfolio, an increase from $3.7 million, or 1.1% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2010. Automobile loans generally have greater risk of loss or default than one- to-four family residential mortgage loans due to the rapid depreciation of automobiles securing the loans. We face the risk that the collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit our ability to recover on such loans. Because of our extensive expertise and focus on prime borrowers, we intend to continue to increase the amount of indirect automobile loans we originate, while selling more of the originations. However, it is difficult to assess the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio due to the recent origination of these loans. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our estimates, which would adversely affect our future performance. In addition, if our losses on these loans increase, it may become necessary to increase our provision for loan losses, which would also adversely impact our future earnings. Because we intend to continue to emphasize our commercial real estate and multi-family loan originations, our credit risk will increase, and continued downturns in the local real estate market or economy could adversely affect our earnings. We intend to continue originating commercial real estate and multi-family loans. At December 31, 2011, $166.3 million, or 32.5% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of multi-family loans and commercial real estate loans. Commercial real estate and multi-family loans generally have more risk than the one- to-four family residential real estate loans that we originate. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and multi-family loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the local real estate market or economy. Commercial real estate and multi-family loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of related borrowers. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower’s business, thereby increasing the risk of nonperforming loans. As our commercial real estate and multi-family loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. A portion of our one- to-four family residential mortgage loans is comprised of non-owner occupied properties, which increases the credit risk on this portion of our loan portfolio. A significant portion of the housing stock in our primary lending market area is comprised of two-, three- and four-unit properties. At December 31, 2011, of the $192.3 million of one- to-four family residential mortgage loans in our portfolio, $3.2 million, or 1.7% of this amount, were comprised of non-owner occupied properties. There is a greater credit risk inherent in two-, three- and four-unit properties and especially in investor-owner and 36 Table of Contents non-owner occupied properties, than in owner-occupied one-unit properties since, similar to commercial real estate and multi-family loans, the repayment of these loans may depend, in part, on the successful management of the property and/or the borrower’s ability to lease the units of the property. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing these loans or the revenues derived from these properties, which could affect the borrower’s ability to repay the loan. Our home equity line of credit initiative exposes us to a risk of loss due to a decline in property values. At December 31, 2011, $50.1 million, or 9.8%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of home equity lines of credit. As part of our strategic business plan, we intend to increase our home equity lines of credit over the next several years. We generally originate home equity lines of credit with loan-to-value ratios of up to 80% when combined with the principal balance of the existing first mortgage loan, although loan-to-value ratios may exceed 80% on a case-by-case basis. Declines in real estate values in our market area could cause some of our home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss in the event that we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. We make and hold in our portfolio construction loans, including speculative construction loans, which are considered to have greater credit risk than other types of residential loans made by financial institutions. We originate construction loans for one- to-four family residential properties, multi-family properties and commercial properties, including commercial “mixed-use” buildings and homes built by developers on speculative, undeveloped property. At December 31, 2011, $15.2 million, or 3.0% of our total loan portfolio consisted of construction loans, none of which were secured by one- to-four family owner-occupied residential real estate, $3.9 million of which were secured by one- to-four family residential real estate projects on speculation, $8.1 million of which were secured by multi-family residential real estate projects, and $3.2 million of which were secured by commercial real estate. Construction loans are considered more risky than other types of residential mortgage loans. The primary credit risks associated with construction lending are underwriting, project risks and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk of affordability of financing by borrowers, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. While we believe we have established adequate allowances in our financial statements to cover the credit risk of our construction loan portfolio, there can be no assurance that losses will not exceed our allowances, which could adversely impact our future earnings. Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has changed the bank regulatory framework, created an independent consumer protection bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and established more stringent capital standards for depository institutions and bank holding companies. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulatory actions, may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business activities, including our ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These risks could affect the performance and value of our loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect our financial performance. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Federal regulations govern the activities in which we may engage, 37 Table of Contents and are primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operations of a savings association, the classification of assets by a savings association, and the adequacy of a savings association’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations or legislation, could have a material impact on our results of operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change. Any legislative, regulatory or policy changes adopted in the future could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. Further, we expect any such new laws, rules or regulations will add to our compliance costs and place additional demands on our management team. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Future changes in interest rates could reduce our profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest and dividend income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest and dividend income is the difference between: • the interest and dividend income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and • the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. A significant portion of our loans are fixed-rate one- to-four family residential mortgage loans and 5/5 adjustable rate—10 year maturity commercial real estate loans, and like many savings institutions, our focus on deposit accounts as a source of funds, which have no stated maturity date or shorter contractual maturities, results in our liabilities having a shorter duration than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets, such as loans and investments, may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities, such as deposits. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans, and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called or prepaid, thereby requiring us to reinvest these funds at lower interest rates. At December 31, 2011, our interest rate risk analysis indicated that our net interest income would decrease by 1.1% if there was an instantaneous 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. For additional discussion of how changes in current interest rates could impact our financial condition and results of operations, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” Changes in interest rates also create reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities in a declining interest rate environment. 38 Table of Contents Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. At December 31, 2011, $119.3 million, or 62.0% of our $192.3 million total one- to-four family residential mortgage loans at such date had adjustable rates of interest. If interest rates increase, the rates on these loans will, in turn, increase, thereby increasing the risk that borrowers will not be able to repay these loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the past three years it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve Board to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than available prior to 2008. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has been one factor contributing to the recent increases in our interest rate spread as interest rates decreased. However, our ability to continue to lower our interest expense may be limited at current interest rate levels while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Federal Reserve Board has recently indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates until at least late 2014. Accordingly, our net interest income may be adversely affected and may even decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability. Concentration of loans in our primary market area, which has recently experienced an economic downturn, may increase risk. Our success depends primarily on general economic conditions in our market area in Eastern Massachusetts. Nearly all of our loans are to customers in this market. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in this market have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as our ability to originate new loans. As such, a continuation of the weakness in real estate values in this market would also lower the value of the collateral securing loans on properties in our market. In addition, a continued weakening in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results. Loss of key personnel could adversely impact results. Our success has been and will continue to be greatly influenced by our ability to retain the services of our existing senior management. The unexpected loss of the services of any of the key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. Our earnings have been negatively affected by the reduction in dividends paid by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston. In addition, any restrictions placed on the operations of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston could hinder our ability to use it as a liquidity source. The Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Boston did not pay any dividends during the years 2009 and 2010. Although the FHLB of Boston began paying a dividend again in 2011, the dividends paid were equal to annualized yield of basis points per share, respectively, far below the dividend paid by the FHLB of Boston prior to 2009. The failure of the FHLB of Boston to pay full dividends for any quarter will reduce our earnings during that quarter. In addition, the FHLB of Boston is an important source of liquidity for us, and any restrictions on their operations may hinder our ability to use it as a liquidity source. At December 31, 2011, the carrying value of our FHLB of Boston stock, was $8.0 million. 39 Table of Contents Strong competition for deposits and lending opportunities within our market areas, as well as competition from non-depository investment alternatives, may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and to be profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market areas. If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market or other non-depository investments, as providing superior expected returns, or if our customers seek to spread their deposits over several banks to maximize FDIC insurance coverage. Furthermore, technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments, including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Additional increases in short-term interest rates could increase transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When bank customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, or spread their accounts over several banks, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, thus increasing our funding costs and reducing our profitability. Technological advances impact our business. The banking industry is undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or successfully market such products and services to our customers. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 40 Table of Contents 