ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business strategy, which includes significant asset and liability growth, was recently adopted and implemented and has not yet had the time to be proven successful. If we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. In 2010, the Board of Directors of the Bank approved a strategic plan that has resulted in significant growth in assets and liabilities and contemplates further growth over the next several years. Specifically, we intend to continue to increase our commercial real estate loans, home equity lines of credit, commercial business loans and indirect automobile loans, while attracting favorably priced deposits. During 2012 we added our Shaw’s Supermarket in-store branch in Waltham, and we expect to open two new in-store branches during 2013. We have incurred substantial additional expenses due to the continuation of our strategic plan, including salaries and occupancy expense related to new lending officers and related support staff, as well as marketing and infrastructure expenses. Many of these increased expenses are considered fixed expenses. Unless we can continue to successfully navigate through our strategic plan, our financial condition and results of operations will continue to be negatively affected by these increased costs. The successful continuation of our strategic plan will require, among other things, that we increase our market share by attracting new customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in our market area. In addition, our ability to continue to successfully grow will depend on several factors, including continued favorable market conditions, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market area, and our ability to maintain high asset quality as we increase our commercial real estate loans, home equity lines of credit, commercial business loans and indirect automobile loans. While we believe we have the management resources in place to successfully manage our future growth, growth opportunities may not be available and we may not be successful in achieving our business strategy goals. Our branch network expansion strategy may negatively affect our financial performance. During 2012 we added our Shaw’s Supermarket in-store branch in Waltham, and we expect to open two new in-store branches during 2013. This strategy may not generate earnings, or may not generate earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as a suitable location, qualified personnel, and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, it takes time for a new branch to originate sufficient loans and generate sufficient deposits to produce enough income to offset expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are considered fixed costs. Because we intend to continue to emphasize our commercial real estate and multi-family loan originations, our credit risk will increase, and downturns in the local real estate market or economy could adversely affect our earnings. We intend to continue originating commercial real estate and multi-family loans. At December 31, 2012, $261.0 million, or 39.7% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of multi-family loans and commercial real estate loans. Commercial real estate and multi-family loans generally have more risk than the one to four family residential real estate loans that we originate. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and multi-family loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the local real estate market or economy. Commercial real estate and multi-family loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of related borrowers. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower’s business, thereby increasing the risk of nonperforming loans. As our commercial real estate and multi-family loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. 34 Table of Contents Our loan portfolio has greater risk than those of many savings banks due to the substantial number of indirect automobile loans in our portfolio. We have a diversified loan portfolio with a substantial number of loans secured by collateral other than owner-occupied one to four family residential real estate. Our loan portfolio includes a substantial number of indirect automobile loans, which are automobile loans assigned to us by participating automobile dealerships upon our review and approval of such loans. At December 31, 2012, our indirect automobile loans totaled $80.3 million, or 12.2% of our total loan portfolio, an increase from $66.4 million, or 13.0% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2011. Automobile loans generally have greater risk of loss in the event of default than one to four family residential mortgage loans due to the rapid depreciation of automobiles securing the loans. We face the risk that the collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit our ability to recover on such loans. Because of our extensive expertise and focus on prime borrowers, we intend to continue to increase the amount of indirect automobile loans we originate, while selling more of the originations. However, it is difficult to assess the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio due to the recent origination of these loans. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our estimates, which would adversely affect our future performance. In addition, if our losses on these loans increase, it may become necessary to increase our provision for loan losses, which would also adversely impact our future earnings. A portion of our one to four family residential mortgage loans is comprised of non-owner occupied properties, which increases the credit risk on this portion of our loan portfolio. A significant portion of the housing stock in our primary lending market area is comprised of two-, three- and four-unit properties. At December 31, 2012, of the $201.8 million of one to four family residential mortgage loans in our portfolio, $2.8 million, or 1.4% of this amount, were comprised of non-owner occupied properties. There is a greater credit risk inherent in two-, three- and four-unit properties and especially in investor-owner and non-owner occupied properties, than in owner-occupied one-unit properties since, similar to commercial real estate and multi-family loans, the repayment of these loans may depend, in part, on the successful management of the property and/or the borrower’s ability to lease the units of the property. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing these loans or the revenues derived from these properties, which could affect the borrower’s ability to repay the loan. Our home equity line of credit initiative exposes us to a risk of loss due to a decline in property values. At December 31, 2012, $66.9 million, or 10.2%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of home equity lines of credit. As part of our strategic business plan, we intend to increase our home equity lines of credit over the next several years. We generally originate home equity lines of credit with loan-to-value ratios of up to 80% when combined with the principal balance of the existing first mortgage loan, although loan-to-value ratios may exceed 80% on a case-by-case basis. Declines in real estate values in our market area could cause some of our home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss in the event that we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. We make and hold in our portfolio construction loans, including speculative construction loans, which are considered to have greater credit risk than other types of residential loans made by financial institutions. We originate construction loans for one to four family residential properties, multi-family properties and commercial properties, including commercial “mixed-use” buildings and homes built by developers on speculative, undeveloped property. At December 31, 2012, $16.1 million, or 2.5% of our total loan portfolio consisted of construction loans, $481,000 of which were secured by one to four family owner-occupied residential real estate, $3.7 million of which were secured by one to four family residential real estate projects on speculation, $10.0 million of which were secured by multi-family residential real estate projects, and $2.0 million of which were secured by commercial real estate. Construction loans are considered more risky than other types of residential mortgage loans. The primary credit risks associated with construction lending are underwriting, project risks and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk of affordability of financing by borrowers, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. While we believe we have established adequate allowances in our financial statements to cover the credit risk of our construction loan portfolio, there can be no assurance that losses will not exceed our allowances, which could adversely impact our future earnings. 35 Table of Contents Future changes in interest rates could reduce our profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest and dividend income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest and dividend income is the difference between: • the interest and dividend income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and • the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. A significant portion of our loans are fixed-rate one to four family residential mortgage loans and 5/5 adjustable rate—10 year maturity commercial real estate loans, and like many savings institutions, our focus on deposit accounts as a source of funds, which have no stated maturity date or shorter contractual maturities, results in our liabilities having a shorter duration than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets, such as loans and investments, may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities, such as deposits. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans, and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called or prepaid, thereby requiring us to reinvest these funds at lower interest rates. At December 31, 2012, our interest rate risk analysis indicated that our net interest income would decrease by 1.9% over the next twelve months if there was an instantaneous 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. For additional discussion of how changes in current interest rates could impact our financial condition and results of operations, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” Changes in interest rates also create reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities in a declining interest rate environment. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. At December 31, 2012, $93.0 million, or 46.0% of our $201.8 million total one to four family residential mortgage loans at such date had adjustable rates of interest. If interest rates increase, the rates on these loans will, in turn, increase, thereby increasing the risk that borrowers will not be able to repay these loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the past four years it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve Board to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than available prior to 2008. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which was one factor contributing to the increase in our interest rate spread between 2008 and 2012 as interest rates decreased. However, at current interest rate levels our ability to continue to lower our interest expense is relatively limited compared to the average yield on our interest-earning assets which may continue to decrease. Our interest rate spread decreased to 2.68% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to 2.91% for the year ended December 31, 2011. The Federal Reserve Board has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates until at least late 2014. Accordingly, our interest rate spread may continue to decrease in the near future, which would adversely affect our net interest income and our profitability. Financial reform legislation has, among other things, tightened capital standards and created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and will result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. 36 Table of Contents Among other things, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act: • effective July 21, 2011, the federal prohibition on paying interest on demand deposits has been eliminated, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. This change may increase our interest expense; • the Federal Reserve Board is required to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as stringent as those required for their insured depository subsidiaries, and the components of Tier 1 capital are required to be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. See “Regulation and Supervision—Federal Banking Regulation—Capital Requirements; • the federal banking regulators are required to implement new leverage and capital requirements that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives; • a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has been established, which has broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, like Belmont Savings Bank, will be examined by their applicable bank regulators; and • federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings banks have been weakened, and state attorneys general have the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. In addition to the risks noted above, we expect that our operating and compliance costs, and possibly our interest expense, could increase as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementing rules and regulations. The need to comply with additional rules and regulations will also divert management’s time from managing our operations. Higher capital levels would require us to maintain higher levels of assets that earn less interest and dividend income and returns on stockholders’ equity would suffer. Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. In addition to new rules promulgated under the Dodd Frank Act, bank regulatory agencies have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of new legislation and regulatory actions in response to these conditions, may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business activities, including our ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These measures are likely to increase our costs of doing business and may have a significant adverse effect on our lending activities, financial performance and operating flexibility. In addition, these risks could affect the performance and value of our loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect our financial performance. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve Board, in an attempt to help stabilize the economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve Board increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules are uncertain. In June 2012, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board and the other federal bank regulatory agencies issued a series of proposed rules that would revise their leverage and risk-based capital requirements and the method for calculating risk-weighted assets to make them consistent with agreements that were reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed rules would apply to all depository institutions and top-tier bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $500 million or more. The proposed rules implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Basel III was initially intended to be implemented beginning January 1, 2013, however on November 9, 2012, the U.S. federal banking agencies announced that they do not expect that any of the proposed rules would become effective on January 1, 2013. 37 Table of Contents Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of financial institutions. The proposed rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which would be phased in during 2013 and 2014, and would refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The proposed new minimum capital level requirements applicable to Belmont Savings Bank under the proposals would be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The proposed rules would also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the proposed Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to Belmont Savings Bank. In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, bank regulators may impose capital requirements that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations. The application of more stringent capital requirements for Belmont Savings Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if our capital levels were to decline and we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers, could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Division of Banks. Federal regulations govern the activities in which we may engage, and are primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operations of a savings association, the classification of assets by a savings association, and the adequacy of a savings association’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations or legislation, could have a material impact on our results of operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change. Any legislative, regulatory or policy changes adopted in the future could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. Further, we expect any such new laws, rules or regulations will add to our compliance costs and place additional demands on our management team. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 38 Table of Contents Because most of our borrowers are located in Eastern Massachusetts, a prolonged downturn in the local economy, or a decline in local real estate values, could cause an increase in nonperforming loans or a decrease in loan demand, which would reduce our profits. Our success depends primarily on general economic conditions in our market area in Eastern Massachusetts. Nearly all of our loans are to customers in this market. Continued weakness in our local economy and our local real estate markets could adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Real estate values are affected by various factors, including supply and demand, changes in general or regional economic conditions, interest rates, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. Continued weakness in economic conditions also could result in reduced loan demand and a decline in loan originations, which could negatively affect our financial results. Loss of key personnel could adversely impact results. Our success has been and will continue to be greatly influenced by our ability to retain the services of our existing senior management. The unexpected loss of the services of any of the key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. Strong competition for deposits and lending opportunities within our market areas, as well as competition from non-depository investment alternatives, may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and to be profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market areas. If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market or other non-depository investments, as providing superior expected returns, or if our customers seek to spread their deposits over several banks to maximize FDIC insurance coverage. Furthermore, technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments, including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Additional increases in short-term interest rates could increase transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When bank customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, or spread their accounts over several banks, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, thus increasing our funding costs and reducing our profitability. The expiration of unlimited Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance on certain non-interest-bearing transaction accounts may increase our costs and reduce our liquidity levels. On December 31, 2012, unlimited Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance on certain non-interest-bearing transaction accounts expired. Unlimited insurance coverage does not apply to money market deposit accounts or negotiable order of withdrawal accounts. The reduction in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance on other types of accounts to the standard $250,000 maximum amount may cause depositors to place such funds in fully insured interest-bearing accounts, which would increase our costs of funds and negatively affect our results of operations, or may cause depositors to withdraw their deposits and invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the United States Treasury. This may reduce our liquidity, or require us to pay higher interest rates to maintain our liquidity by retaining deposits. Changes in the structure of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (“GSEs”) and the relationship among the GSEs, the federal government and the private markets, or the conversion of the current conservatorship of the GSEs into receivership, could result in significant changes to our securities portfolio. The GSEs are currently in conservatorship, with its primary regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, acting as conservator. We cannot predict if, when or how the conservatorships will end, or any associated changes to the GSEs’ business structure that could result. We also cannot predict whether the conservatorships will end in receivership. There are several proposed approaches to reform the GSEs which, if enacted, could change the structure of the GSEs and the relationship among the GSEs, the government and the private markets, including the trading markets for agency conforming mortgage loans and markets for mortgage-related securities in 39 Table of Contents which we participate. We cannot predict the prospects for the enactment, timing or content of legislative or rulemaking proposals regarding the future status of the GSEs. Accordingly, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the future of the GSEs, including whether they will continue to exist in their current form. GSE reform, if enacted, could result in a significant change and adversely impact our business operations. Our earnings have been negatively affected by the reduction in dividends paid by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston. In addition, any restrictions placed on the operations of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston could hinder our ability to use it as a liquidity source. The Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Boston did not pay any dividends during the years 2009 and 2010. Although the FHLB of Boston began paying a dividend again in 2011, the dividends paid for 2011 and 2012 were equal to annualized rates of 30 and 50 basis points per share, respectively, far below the dividend paid by the FHLB of Boston prior to 2009. The failure of the FHLB of Boston to pay full dividends for any quarter will reduce our earnings during that quarter. In addition, the FHLB of Boston is an important source of liquidity for us, and any restrictions on their operations may hinder our ability to use it as a liquidity source. At December 31, 2012, the carrying value of our FHLB of Boston stock, was $7.6 million. Technological advances impact our business. The banking industry is undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or successfully market such products and services to our customers. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 