ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business involves a number of challenges. In addition to the other information in this report, you should consider carefully the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. Moreover, the risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Business Material changes in the life insurance secondary market, a relatively new and evolving market, may adversely affect our operating results, business prospects and our ability to repay our obligations. Our sole business is the purchase and ownership of life insurance policies acquired in the secondary market, which is a relatively new and evolving market. The success of our business and our ability to repay the principal and interest on our obligations materially depends on the continued development of the secondary market for life insurance, including the solvency of life insurance companies to pay the face value of the life insurance benefits, both of which will critically impact the performance of the life insurance policy assets we own. We expect that the development of the secondary market will primarily be impacted by a variety of factors such as the interpretation of existing laws and regulations (including laws relating to insurable interests), the passage of new legislation and regulations, mortality improvement rates, and actuarial understandings and methodologies. Importantly, all of the factors that we believe will most significantly affect the development of the life insurance secondary market are beyond our control. Any material and adverse development in the life insurance secondary market could adversely affect our operating results, our access to capital, our business prospects and viability, and our ability to repay our various obligations. Because of this, an investment in the Company generally involves greater risk as compared to investments offered by companies with more diversified business operations in more established markets. We have a relatively limited history of operations and our earnings and cash flows may be volatile, resulting in future losses and uncertainty about our ability to service and repay our debt when and as it comes due. We are a company with a limited history, which makes it difficult to accurately forecast our earnings and cash flows. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we incurred a net loss of $(1,013,000), and in the year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred a net loss of $(2,827,000). Our common equity (deficit) as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 was $(1,262,000) and $949,000, respectively. The carrying value of our Series A preferred stock as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 was $23,906,000 and $12,661,000, respectively. Our lack of a significant history and the evolving nature of our market make it likely that there are risks inherent in our business and the performance characteristics for portfolios of life insurance policies that are as yet recognized by us or others, or not fully appreciated, and that could result in earning less on our life insurance policies than we anticipate or even suffering further losses. As a result of the foregoing, there is uncertainty about the stability of our earnings, cash flows and, ultimately, our ability to service and repay our debt. The valuation of our principal assets on our balance sheet requires us to make material assumptions that may ultimately prove to be incorrect. In such an event, we could suffer significant losses that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and eventually cause us to be in default of restrictive covenants contained in our borrowing agreements. Our principal asset is a portfolio of life insurance policies purchased in the secondary market, comprising approximately 83% of our total assets. Those assets are considered “Level 3” fair value measurements under ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, as there is currently no active market where we are able to observe quoted prices for identical assets. As a result, our valuation of those assets incorporates significant inputs that are not observable. Fair value is defined as an exit price representing the amount that would be received if assets were sold or that would be paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that should be determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. A Level 3 fair value measurement is inherently uncertain and creates additional volatility in our financial statements that are not necessarily related to the performance of the underlying assets. As of December 31, 2012, we estimate the fair value discount rate for our portfolio to be 12.08%. If we determine in the future that fair value requires a higher discount rate for a similarly situated portfolio of life insurance policies, we would experience significant losses materially affecting our results of operations. It is also possible that significant losses of this nature could at some point cause us to fall out of compliance with certain borrowing covenants contained in our revolving credit facility. In an effort to present results of operations not subject to this volatility, we intend to provide additional non-GAAP financial disclosures, on a consistent basis, presenting the actuarial economic gain we expect to be occurring within the portfolio of life insurance policies at the expected internal rate of return against the costs we incur over the same period. We report these very same non-GAAP financial measures to the lender under our revolving credit facility pursuant to financial covenants in the related borrowing documents. Nevertheless, our reported GAAP earnings may in the future be volatile for reasons that do not bear an immediate relationship to the cash flows we experience. For further disclosure relating to the risks associated with the valuation of our assets, see the risk factor below "If actuarial assumptions we obtain from third-party providers..." on page 20. 18 Our expected results from our life insurance portfolio may not match actual results, which could adversely affect our ability to service and grow our portfolio for diversification, and to service our debt. Our business model relies on achieving actual results that are in line with the results we expect to attain from our investments in life insurance policy assets. In this regard, we believe that the larger portfolio we own, the greater likelihood we will achieve our expected results. To our knowledge, rating agencies generally suggest that portfolios of life insurance policies be diversified enough to achieve actuarial stability in receiving expected cash flows from underlying mortality. For instance, in a study published in 2009, A.M. Best concluded that at least 300 lives are necessary to achieve actuarial stability, while Standard & Poor’s has indicated that stability is unlikely to be achieved with a pool of less than 1,000 lives. As of December 31, 2012, we own approximately $572 million in face value of life insurance policies covering 194 lives. Accordingly, while there is risk with any portfolio of policies that our actual yield may be less than expected, we believe that the risk we face is presently more significant given the relative lack of diversification in our current portfolio as compared to rating agency recommendations. Although we plan to expand the number of life insurance policies we own using proceeds raised from the sale of Renewable Secured Debentures, we may be unable to meet this goal if we do not sell enough debentures and financing from other capital sources is available only on unfavorable or unacceptable terms. Furthermore, even if our portfolio reaches the size we desire, we still may experience differences between the actuarial models we use and actual mortalities. Differences between our expectations and actuarial models and actual mortality results could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results and cash flow. In such a case, we may face liquidity problems, including difficulties servicing our remaining portfolio of policies and servicing our outstanding debt obligations owed under our revolving credit facility, our Series I subsidiary secured notes, Renewable Secured Debentures and redemptions of Series A preferred stock. Continued or material failures to meet our expected results could decrease the attractiveness of our debentures or other securities in the eyes of potential investors, making it even more difficult to obtain capital needed to both service our portfolio, grow the portfolio to obtain desired diversification, and service our existing debt. We critically rely on debt financing for our business. Any inability to borrow could adversely affect our business operations, our ability to satisfy our obligations, and ultimately our viability. To date, we have chosen to finance our business almost entirely through the issuance of debt, including debt incurred by our subsidiary DLP Funding II under a senior revolving credit facility provided by Autobahn/DZ Bank (which we refer to throughout this report as our “revolving credit facility”). This revolving credit facility is secured by all of the assets of DLP Funding II, has a maximum amount of $100 million, and the outstanding balance at December 31, 2012 was approximately $71 million. Obligations under the revolving credit facility have a scheduled maturity date of December 31, 2014. Our other important source of financing is presently our public offering of Renewable Secured Debentures. Together, our revolving credit facility and our debenture offering comprise our most important sources of financing on which our business critically relies in order to grow its portfolio of life insurance policies and maintain those policies. Our business model expects that we will have continued access to financing in order to purchase a large and diversified portfolio of life insurance policies and pay the attendant premiums and costs of maintaining the portfolio, all while satisfying our current interest and principal repayment obligations under our revolving credit facility, our other indebtedness and the debentures. We expect to refinance our revolving credit facility, either through renewal or replacement, when it comes due December 31, 2014. Pending the due date or refinancing of our revolving credit facility, we expect that proceeds from our life insurance policies will first be used to satisfy our obligations under that facility, as required by the revolving loan agreement. Accordingly, until we achieve cash flows derived from the portfolio of life insurance policy benefits, we expect to rely on debt to satisfy our ongoing financing and liquidity needs. Nevertheless, continued access to financing and liquidity under the revolving credit facility or otherwise is not guaranteed. For example, general economic conditions could limit our access to financing, as could regulatory or legal pressures exerted on us, our financiers or those involved in our general plan of financing such as brokers, dealers and registered investment advisors. If we are unable to borrow under the revolving credit facility or otherwise (including, without limitation, obtaining financing from our public debenture offering) for any reason, or to renew or replace the revolving credit facility when it comes due in December 2014, our business would be adversely impacted as well as our ability to service and repay our obligations. Our investments in life insurance policies have inherent risks, including fraud and legal challenges to the validity of the policies, which we will be unable to eliminate and which may adversely affect our results of operations. When we purchase a life insurance policy, we underwrite the purchase of the policy to mitigate risks associated with insurance fraud and other legal challenges to the validity of the life insurance policy. To the extent that the insured is not aware of the existence of the policy, the insured him or herself does not exist, or the insurance company does not recognize the policy, the insurance company may cancel or rescind the policy thereby causing the loss of an investment in a policy. In addition, if medical records have been altered in such a way as to shorten a related life expectancy report, this may cause us to overpay for the related policy. Finally, we may experience legal challenges from insurance companies claiming that the insured failed to have an insurable interest at the time the policy was originally purchased or that the policy owner made fraudulent disclosures to the insurer at the time the policy was purchased (e.g., disclosures pertaining to the health status of the insured or the existence or sources of premium financing), or challenges from the beneficiaries of an insurance policy claiming the sale was invalid upon mortality of the insured. To mitigate these risks, we require a current verification of coverage from the insurance company, complete thorough due diligence on the insured and accompanying medical records, review the life insurance policy application, require a policy to have been in force for at least two years before purchasing, and require a legal review of any premium financing associated with the life insurance policy to insure insurable interest existed. Nevertheless, we do not expect that these steps will eliminate the risk of fraud or legal challenges to the life insurance policies we purchase. Furthermore, changes in laws or regulations, or the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may prove our current due-diligence and risk-mitigation efforts inadequate for us to have confidence that our portfolio of life insurance policies are unlikely to be successfully challenged or to purchase new policies with such confidence. If a significant face amount of policies were invalidated for reasons of fraud or any other reason, our results of operations would be adversely affected, perhaps materially. 19 Every acquisition of a life insurance policy necessarily requires us to materially rely on information provided or obtained by third parties. Any misinformation or negligence in the course of obtaining material information could materially and adversely affect the value of the policies we own. The acquisition of each life insurance policy is negotiated based on variables that are particular facts unique to the life insurance policy itself and the health of the insured. The facts we obtain about the policies and the insured at the time at which the policy was applied for and obtained are based on factual representations made to the insurance company by the insured, and the facts the insurance company independently obtains in the course of its own due-diligence examination, such as facts concerning the health of the insured and whether or not there is an insurable interest present at the inception of each policy was issued. Any misinformation or negligence in the course of obtaining or supplying material information relating to the insurance policy or the insured could ultimately materially and adversely impact the value of the life insurance policies we own. Our business is subject to state regulation and changes in state laws and regulations governing our business, or changes in the interpretation of such laws and regulations, could negatively affect our business. When we purchase a life insurance policy, we are subject to state insurance regulations. Over the past three years, we have seen a dramatic increase in the number of states that have adopted legislation and regulations from a model law promulgated by either the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) or by the National Conference of Insurance Legislators (NCOIL). These laws are essentially consumer protection statutes responding to abuses that arose early in the development of our industry. Today, almost every state has adopted some version of either the NAIC or NCOIL model laws, which generally require the licensing of purchasers of and brokers for life insurance policies, the filing and approval of purchase agreements, and disclosure of transaction fees. These laws also require various periodic reporting requirements and prohibit certain business practices deemed to be abusive. State statutes typically provide state regulatory agencies with significant powers to interpret, administer and enforce the laws relating to the purchase of life insurance policies. Under statutory authority, state regulators have broad discretionary power and may impose new licensing requirements, interpret or enforce existing regulatory requirements in different ways or issue new administrative rules, even if not contained in state statutes. State regulators may also impose rules that are generally adverse to our industry. Because the life insurance secondary market is relatively new and because of the history of certain abuses in the industry, we believe it is likely that state regulation will increase and grow more complex during the foreseeable future. We cannot, however, predict what any new regulation would specifically involve. As discussed in “Business—Government Regulation,” in 2007, the Florida Department of Insurance issued an order for the Company to desist and refrain from further operating as a life settlement provider unless and until qualification had been made under the Florida law, or unless exempt. In April 2009, without admitting any wrongdoing, we settled the matter with the Florida Department of Insurance. Furthermore, in April 2011, without denying any wrongdoing, we entered into a settlement agreement with the Nevada Secretary of State, Securities Division, for alleged failures to register as a broker-dealer of life insurance settlement transactions and to file a notice of exempt offering for the sale of subsidiary secured notes to residents of that state in 2009-2010. Any adverse change in present laws or regulations, or their interpretation, in one or more states in which we operate (or an aggregation of states in which we conduct a significant amount of business) could result in our curtailment or termination of operations in such jurisdictions, or cause us to modify our operations in a way that adversely affects our profitability. Any such action could have a corresponding material and negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition, primarily through a material decrease in revenues, and could also negatively affect our general business prospects. If federal or state regulators or courts conclude that the purchase of life insurance in the secondary market constitutes, in all cases, a transaction in securities, we could be in violation of existing covenants under our revolving credit facility, which could result in significantly diminished access to capital. We could also face increased operational expenses. The materialization of any of these risks could adversely affect our operating results and possibly threaten the viability of our business. Some states and the SEC have, on occasion, attempted to regulate the purchase of non-variable universal life insurance policies as transactions in securities under federal or state securities laws. In July 2010, the SEC issued a Staff Report of its Life Settlement Task Force. In that report, the Staff recommended that certain types of purchased life insurance policies be classified as securities. The SEC has not taken any position on the Staff Report, and there is no indication if the SEC will take or advocate for any action to implement the recommendations of the Staff Report. In addition, there have been several federal court cases in which transactions involving the purchase and fractionalization of life insurance contracts have been held to be transactions in securities under the federal Securities Act of 1933. We believe that the matters discussed in the Staff Report, and existing case law, do not impact our current business model since our purchases of life settlements are distinguishable from those cases that have been held by courts, and advocated by the Staff Report, to be transactions in securities. For example, neither we nor any of our affiliates are involved in the fractionalization of any life insurance policies. 20 With respect to state securities laws, almost all states currently treat the sale of a life insurance policy as a securities transaction under state laws, although some states exclude from the definition of security the original sale from the insured or the policy owner to the life settlement provider. To date, due to the manner in which we conduct and structure our activities and the availability, in certain instances, of exceptions and exemptions under securities laws, such laws have not adversely impacted our business model. As a practical matter, the widespread application of securities laws to our purchases of life insurance policies, either through the expansion of the definition of what constitutes a security, the expansion of the types of transactions in life insurance policies that would constitute transactions in securities, or the elimination or limitation of available exemptions and exceptions (whether by statutory change, regulatory change, or administrative or court interpretation) could burden us and other companies operating in the life insurance secondary market through the imposition of additional processes in the purchase of life insurance policies or the imposition of additional corporate governance and operational requirements through the application of the federal Investment Company Act of 1940. Any such burdens could be material. Among the particular repercussions for us would be a violation of existing covenants under our revolving credit facility requiring us to not be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could in the short or long term affect our liquidity and increase our cost of capital and operational expenses, all of which would adversely affect our operating results. It is possible that such an outcome could threaten the viability of our business and our ability to satisfy our obligations as they come due, including obligations under our debentures. Being a public company results in additional expenses and diverts management’s attention, and could also adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified directors. We have been a public reporting company since January 31, 2012, which is the date on which our registration statement on Form S-1 (relating to the offer and sale of the Renewable Secured Debentures) was declared effective by the SEC. As a public reporting company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 pursuant to Section 15(d) of that Act. These requirements generate significant accounting, legal and financial compliance costs, and make some activities more difficult, time consuming or costly, and may place significant strain on our personnel and resources. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to establish the requisite disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have an adverse and even material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These rules and regulations may also make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. If we are unable to obtain appropriate director and officer insurance, our ability to recruit and retain qualified officers and directors, especially those directors who may be deemed independent, could be adversely impacted. Our business and prospects may be adversely affected by changes, lack of growth or increased competition in the life insurance secondary market. The growth of the life insurance policy secondary market and our expansion within the market may be negatively affected by a variety of factors beyond our ultimate control, including: ● the inability to locate sufficient numbers of life insurance policy sellers and agents to source life sellers; ● the inability to convince life insurance policy owners of the benefits of selling their life insurance policy; ● competition from other companies in the life insurance secondary market; ● negative publicity about the market based on actual or perceived abuses; and ● the adoption of additional governmental regulation. The relatively new and evolving nature of the market in which we operate makes these risks unique and difficult to quantify. Nevertheless, contractions in the secondary market for life insurance policies, whether resulting from general economic conditions, regulatory or legal pressures or otherwise, could make participation in that market generally less desirable. This could, in turn, depress the prices at which life insurance policies on the secondary market are bought and sold. As indicated elsewhere in this report, decreases in the value of life insurance policies on the secondary market could negatively affect our results of operations and our financial condition since the value of our policy portfolio is marked to market on a quarterly basis. Changes in general economic conditions could adversely impact our business. Changes in general economic conditions, including, for example, interest rates, investor sentiment, changes specifically affecting insurance industry, competition, technological developments, political and diplomatic events, tax laws, and other factors not known to us today, can substantially and adversely affect our business and prospects. For example, changes in interest rates may increase our cost of capital and ability to raise capital, and have a corresponding adverse impact on our operating results. While we may engage in certain hedging activities to mitigate the impact of these changes, none of these conditions are or will be within our control. 21 If actuarial assumptions we obtain from third-party providers and rely on to model our expected returns on our investments in life insurance policies changes, our operating results and cash flow could be adversely affected, as well as the value of our collateral and our ability to service our debt obligations, including obligations owed to the holders of debentures. The expected internal rate of return we calculate we will earn when purchasing a life insurance policy is based upon our estimate of how long the insured will live—an actuarial life expectancy. We obtain actuarial life expectancies from third-party medical actuarial underwriting companies. These actuarial life expectancies are subject to interpretation and change. Any change to the actuarial expectancies or the mortality assumptions accompanied therewith that extend the estimated actuarial life expectancies could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results and cash flow. Adverse impacts on the value of our life insurance policy portfolio or our cash flow could in turn impair the value of the collateral we have pledged to our creditors, including the holders of our debentures, and our ability to service our debt. In September 2008, we experienced adverse changes in actuarial life expectancy estimates by many of the medical actuarial underwriting firms we use with the release of the Society of Actuaries’ 2008 Valuation Basic Table. This change in actuarial estimates by the medical actuarial firms had a negative impact on the valuation of our life insurance policy investments and reduced the rate of return we expected we would earn on those investments. On January 22, 2013, 21st Services, an independent provider of life expectancy analysis and related services for the life settlement industry in general, announced advancements in its underwriting methodology, resulting in revised life expectancy mortality tables for life settlement transactions. Based on information publicly released by 21st Services, the revised tables incorporate significantly more older‐age mortality data than earlier versions commonly used by the life insurance industry, resulting in a far greater ability to: ● assess the magnitude of impact that hundreds of different types of health impairments have on senior mortality on a case‐by‐case basis; ● apply credits and debits during the underwriting process in a manner that account for the different impacts of the same impairments for males and females; and ● reflect the difference in mortality between insureds who have sold policies and the group of 90,000 insureds underwritten by 21st Services, most of whom did not ultimately sell their policies in the life settlement market (such difference is frequently referred to in the life-settlement industry as “anti-selection”). 21st Services reported that the revised mortality tables reflect an average 19% increase in the life expectancy of insureds; however, 21st Services representatives have also advised us that generalizations could not be gleaned from their report as the changes that were made were very granular and dependent upon the specific medical conditions of an insured, as well as other factors. More specifically, mortality tables increased general life expectancies the most for people leading an active lifestyle. The revised tables also generally reflect increased life expectancies for non-smoking men and women. 21st Services representatives have advised us that (i) certain medial conditions have resulted in increased life expectancies (e.g., cardiovascular disease) and some conditions resulted in decreased life expectancies, and (ii) the revised tables also have greater impact on the life expectancies of insureds who are younger. We have has used 21st Services life expectancy reports as one of two such reports we generally obtain prior to purchasing life insurance policies on the secondary market and average those reports for our life expectancy estimate. The life expectancy of an insured has an inverse relationship to the expected internal rate of return to be generated from life insurance policies purchased in the secondary market. A reduced internal rate of return may reduce the value of a life insurance policy available for purchase on the secondary market, and the value of life insurance policies already purchased by us and being serviced in our portfolio. We expect that 21st Services’ revised mortality tables will have a negative impact on the expected internal rate of return of our portfolio. Nevertheless, given the relative complexity of the mortality table revisions and the detailed data upon which those revisions were based, we will have to obtain updated information on each insured, and obtain new life expectancy reports for each of these policies, and thereupon make appropriate life expectancy adjustments to our life insurance portfolio over the course of the next year. Although we are presently not able to precisely quantify the effect of the table revisions on our portfolio, we have increased all life expectancy reports provided by 21st Services by an average of 8.67% and will record final valuations and adjustments to life expectancies as new information is obtained. This adjustment replaced our initial increase estimate of 7.00% as reported on February 6, 2013. The impact of the 8.67% adjustment to 21st Services life expectancies to the fair value of our portfolio is a decrease of $12.4 million when the fair value discount rate is 12.08%. The impact of this adjustment on our expected internal rate of return was a decrease from 14.27% to 12.84%. In addition to actuarial life expectancies, we rely on pricing and premium forecasting software models developed by third-party actuarial companies for the valuation of policies we purchase, future mortality revenues, and the calculation of anticipated internal rates of return. These pricing models forecast the estimated future premiums due, as well as the future mortalities based on the survival probabilities of the insureds over their life expectancies. It is possible that the actuarial tables we presently use will again change in the future or that the mortality assumptions will fail substantially to meet actuarial estimates, and that any such failure could have a materially adverse effect on our business. 22 We rely on estimated rates of mortality for the actuarial assumptions we use when valuing life insurance policies and forecasting the performance of our portfolio, and we also rely on other estimates derived from statistical methodologies for projecting our future cash flows, among other things. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, it could materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy our debt service and repayment obligations. If we assume we will receive cash inflows from policies sooner than we actually do, we may not be able to make payment on our debt obligations in a timely manner, or at all. Moreover, a significant discovery that results in mortality improvements among seniors, above historically predicted rates by medical actuaries providing life expectancies, could have a material adverse effect on the life insurance policy investments. For example, we use a modeling method for projecting cash flows known as the “probabilistic method.” This is an actuarial method that uses a mortality curve to project the likely flow of policy benefits to us, and attempts to reflect the probability that each premium must be paid. Using this method, we have in fact experienced fewer cash flows from policy benefits than projected in the early stages of ownership of our current life insurance policy portfolio. We had expected to receive approximately $35.2 million in cumulative policy benefits as of December 31, 2012, and have in fact received $12.0 million. This has resulted in greater than expected premium payments, increasing from an expected $38.2 million to $39.3 million. Barring significant mortality improvements (i.e., medical advancements relating to the medical conditions of insureds), however, the fact that actual results have differed from the expectations derived from the probabilistic method of projecting cash flows should ordinarily result in greater cash flows later in the portfolio’s servicing period. We update and revise our projected future cash flows each month using the probabilistic method to reflect the actual experience within our life insurance policy portfolio to date. We use the current future cash flow projection to generate our expected internal rate of return on the life insurance policy portfolio we own. We would expect to change our method of calculating our future cash flows only if leading actuarial firms no longer believed such methodology was the most appropriate means of generating projected cash flows from a life insurance policy portfolio. Any change to the pricing model, methodology, premium forecasting assumptions, cash flow projections, or the mortality assumptions accompanied therewith that increase the projected cost of insurance premiums or decrease the probability of mortality could have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Ultimately, this could adversely affect our ability to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, including our obligations under the debentures. Risks Related to Our Renewable Secured Debentures and Series I Subsidiary Secured Notes We may not be able to raise the capital that we are seeking, and may be unable to meet our overall business objectives of growing a larger, more statistically diverse portfolio of life insurance policies without the proceeds from the sale of Renewable Secured Debentures. Arque Capital serves as our underwriter in the offering of the Renewable Secured Debentures on a best-efforts basis. And, although Arque Capital has agreed to use its best efforts in the offer and sale of the Renewable Secured Debentures, there is no minimum aggregate principal amount of Renewable Secured Debentures that we must sell prior to accessing investor funds, and we may not be able to sell the debentures that we are seeking to sell in offering. Consequently, the additional capital we are seeking may not ultimately be obtained. While we plan to continue the offering of our Renewable Secured Debentures in support of our overall business objectives of growing a larger, more statistically diverse portfolio that is more likely to meet our actuarial cash flow projections, if we are unable to continue the offering for any reason we may be unable to meet that goal. In addition, if holders of our subsidiary secured notes were to fail to renew those notes with the frequency we have historically experienced, and actual cash flows from our portfolio of life insurance policies do not occur as our actuarial projections have forecasted, we could be forced to sell our investments in life insurance policies in order to service or satisfy our debt-related obligations. If we are forced to sell investments in life insurance policies, we may be unable to sell them at prices we believe are appropriate. In any such event, our business may be materially and adversely impacted. 23 We depend upon cash distributions from our subsidiaries, and contractual restrictions on distributions to us or adverse events at one of our operating subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect our ability to pay our debts, including our obligations under the debentures, and to continue to operate our business. GWG Holdings is a holding company. As a holding company, we conduct our operations through our operating subsidiaries, and our only significant assets are the capital stock of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our ability to meet our cash obligations, including our obligations under the debentures, depends in part upon the ability of our subsidiaries to make cash distributions to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us is, and will continue to be, restricted by certain negative covenants relating to our revolving credit facility. DLP Funding II is the borrower under our revolving credit facility. See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. The significant majority of insurance policies owned by the Company are subject to a collateral arrangement with the agent for our revolving credit lender, as described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Under this arrangement, collection and escrow accounts are used to fund purchases and premiums of the insurance policies and to pay interest and other charges under its revolving credit facility. The lender and its agent must authorize all disbursements from these accounts, including any distributions to GWG Life. Distributions are limited to an amount that would result in the borrowers (us) realizing an annualized rate of return on the equity funded amount for such assets of not more than 18%, as determined by the agent. After such amount is reached, the credit agreement requires that excess funds be used to fund repayments or a reserve account in certain amount, before any additional distributions may be made. If any of the above limitations were to materially impede the flow of cash to us, such fact would materially and adversely affect our ability to service and repay our debt, including obligations under the debentures. In addition, any adverse event at the subsidiary level, such as a declaration of bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization or an event of default under our revolving credit facility, could materially and adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to make cash distributions to us. Just as with a material contractual impediment to cash flow, any such subsidiary corporate event would materially and adversely affect our ability to service and repay our debt, including obligations under the debentures and negatively impact our ability to continue operations. Subordination provisions contained in the indenture will restrict the ability of the trustee or the Renewable Secured Debentures holders to enforce their rights against us under the indenture, including the right to payment on the Renewable Secured Debentures, if a default then exists under our senior revolving credit facility. The Renewable Secured Debentures will be subordinate in right of payment to any claims of the senior lender under our revolving credit facility. In this regard, subordination provisions limiting the right of Renewable Secured Debentures holders to enforce their rights are contained in the indenture. These provisions include: ● a prohibition on challenging any enforcement action taken by a senior lender or interfering with any legal action or suits undertaken by a senior lender against us and our affiliates; ● a 180-day standstill period during which there may not be brought any action to enforce an event of default against us or our affiliates unless our revolving credit facility has been repaid in full, which period may be extended if the credit facility provider takes action during such standstill period; and ● a prohibition on filing a bankruptcy or insolvency case against us or our affiliates for at least one year plus one day after the revolving credit facility lender has been paid in full. Furthermore, in the event of a default, we will be prohibited from making any payment, direct or indirect (whether for interest, principal, as a result of any redemption or repayment at maturity, on default, or otherwise), on the Renewable Secured Debentures and any other indebtedness, and neither the holders of the Renewable Secured Debentures nor the trustee will have the right, directly or indirectly, to sue to enforce the indenture or the Renewable Secured Debentures, if a default or event of default under any senior credit facility has occurred and is continuing, or if any default or event of default under any senior credit facility would result from such payment. This payment restriction will generally remain in effect unless and until: (i) the default and event of default respecting the senior credit facility has been cured or waived or has ceased to exist; and (ii) the end of the period commencing on the date the indenture trustee receives written notice of default from a holder of such credit facility and ending on the earlier of (1) the indenture trustee’s receipt of a valid waiver of default from the holder of a credit facility; or (2) the indenture trustee’s receipt of a written notice from the holder of a credit facility terminating the payment blockage period. Other provisions of the indenture permit the trustee to take action to enforce the right of Renewable Secured Debentures holders to payment after 179 days have passed since the trustee’s receipt of notice of default from the senior lender, but in such case any funds paid as a result of any such suit or enforcement action shall be applied toward the senior credit facility until the facility is indefeasibly paid in full before being applied to the debentures. These subordination provisions present the risk that, upon any default by us on obligations owed under our senior debt, the holders of the debentures will be unable to enforce their right to payment. If the 180-day standstill period noted above or any other limitation on the rights of the trustee or debenture holders to assert their rights to payment of principal or interest under the indenture or Renewable Secured Debentures is ultimately determined to conflict with provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (most notably sections 316(b) and 317(a) of that Act), then the trustee, as well as any holder who shall not have earlier consented to such subordination provisions, shall (notwithstanding such provision contained in the indenture) be authorized to institute a lawsuit for the enforcement of any payment of principal or interest after their respective due dates. The collateral granted as security for our obligations under the Renewable Secured Debentures and Series I subsidiary secured notes may be insufficient to repay the indebtedness upon an event of default. Our Renewable Secured Debentures and Series I subsidiary secured notes are structurally subordinate to all obligations of our wholly owned subsidiary DLP Funding II. Importantly in this regard, DLP Funding II owns the most of our life insurance policies and is the borrower under the credit facility. This means that holders of the Renewable Secured Debentures and Series I subsidiary secured notes will have a junior position to the claims of our senior credit facility provider. 24 Thus, Renewable Secured Debentures and Series I subsidiary secured notes are subordinate to all senior secured debt we have or may incur, to the extent of the value of the assets securing that debt. Importantly, as the issuers of the Renewable Secured Debentures and Series I subsidiary secured notes which has granted a general security interest in its assets as collateral security for its obligations under those obligations, GWG Holdings’ most significant assets are cash and its investment in subsidiaries. GWG Holdings’ total assets at December 31, 2012 were approximately $85.7 million, of which approximately $60.6 million was its investment in subsidiaries. Because GWG Holdings is a guarantor of amounts owing under our revolving credit line (the outstanding principal amount of which was $71.0 million at December 31, 2012), this amount of assets is presently insufficient to provide certain security for the Renewable Secured Debentures. Moreover, while the indenture governing the Renewable Secured Debentures limits the amount of debt we and our subsidiaries can incur (through the debt coverage ratio covenant contained in Section 6.1 of the indenture), the indenture permits us and our subsidiaries to incur secured debt (subject to the debt coverage ratio) that may be senior to the Renewable Secured Debentures. For more information relating to the debt coverage ratio, please refer to the risk factor below captioned “Because we intend to hold our life insurance policies to their maturity,” page 23. As indicated above, as of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $71.0 million of outstanding secured indebtedness under our revolving credit facility that is senior to the debentures. In addition, the guarantee and associated grant of collateral security by GWG Life for our obligations under the Renewable Secured Debentures may offer security that is insufficient to provide certain security for the debentures. Like GWG Holdings, GWG Life’s most significant asset is its investment in its subsidiaries (in this case, DLP Funding II). GWG Life’s total assets at December 31, 2012 were approximately $101.3 million, of which approximately $96.9 million was its investment in subsidiaries. Because of the foregoing, and because of the fact that 98% of our life insurance policies representing approximately 99% of the face value of our life insurance policy benefits as of December 31, 2012 are held in our DLP Funding II subsidiary (and all of those assets serve as collateral security for our obligations under the revolving credit facility), debenture holders risk the possibility that the collateral security we have granted for our obligations under the debentures may be insufficient to repay the debentures upon an event of default. If a significant number of holders of our Series I subsidiary secured notes demand repayment of those notes instead of renewing them, and at such time we do not have access to sufficient capital, we may be forced to liquidate some of our life insurance policy assets, which could have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations. Our direct and wholly owned subsidiary, GWG Life, has issued and outstanding approximately $38.6 million in Series I subsidiary secured notes as of December 31, 2012. By virtue of GWG Life’s full and unconditional guarantee of obligations under the debentures, and other agreements contained in or made in connection with the indenture, the Renewable Secured Debentures are pari-passu in right of payment and collateral with such Series I subsidiary secured notes. The indenture for the Renewable Secured Debentures, and the note issuance and security agreement for the Series I subsidiary secured notes, each provide for cross defaults upon an event of default under the provisions of the other agreement (i.e., an event of default under the note issuance and security agreement will constitute an event of default under the indenture for the Renewable Secured Debentures, and vice versa). The renewal terms of the Series I subsidiary secured notes have auto-renewal features. Since we first issued our Series I subsidiary secured notes, we have experienced $86,399,000 in maturities, of which $67,876,000 has renewed for an additional term as of December 31, 2012. This has provided us with an aggregate renewal rate of approximately 79% for investments in our subsidiary secured notes. Future contractual maturities of Series I Secured notes payable at December 31, 2012 are as follows: Years Ending December 31, 2013 $ 19,603,000 2014 8,462,000 2015 4,520,000 2016 1,145,000 2017 4,085,000 Thereafter 755,000 $ 38,570,000 The renewal terms of the Renewable Secured Debentures have auto-renewal features. Since we first issued our Renewable Secured Debentures, we have experienced $1,308,000 in maturities, of which $1,283,000 has renewed for an additional term as of December 31, 2012. This has provided us with an aggregate renewal rate of approximately 98% for investments in our Renewable Secured Debentures. Future contractual maturities of Renewable Secured Debentures at December 31, 2012 are as follows: Years Ending December 31, 2013 $ 10,831,000 2014 10,071,000 2015 19,060,000 2016 3,756,000 2017 4,522,000 Thereafter 9,369,000 $ 57,609,000 If investors holding existing indebtedness with short-term maturities do not elect to renew and we do not, at such time, have access to sufficient capital, we may need to liquidate some of our investments in life insurance policies earlier than anticipated. In such an event, we may be unable to sell those life insurance policies at prices we believe are fair or otherwise appropriate and such sales could have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations. Because we intend to hold our life insurance policies to their maturity, we therefore measure our debt coverage ratio against our current cost of financing, which may not reflect the sale price if we had to liquidate the policies. We intend and expect to hold the life insurance policy investments until they are paid out at the mortality of the insured. As a result, we measure our debt coverage ratio based on the portfolio’s gross expected yield against the interest cost of our total debt obligations to finance the portfolio. The debt coverage ratio, expressed as a percentage, is defined as the ratio of (i) total amounts outstanding on any indebtedness for borrowed money, over (ii) the net present asset value of all life insurance assets we own, plus any cash held in our accounts. For this purpose, the net present asset value is calculated as the present value of the life insurance portfolio’s expected future cash flows discounted at the weighted average interest rate of the indebtedness for the previous month. Under the indenture for our Renewable Secured Debentures, the maximum amount of debentures we may issue at any time is limited to an amount such that our debt coverage ratio does not exceed 90%. This limitation is designed to provide some comfort to holders of our debt that the value of our assets exceeds our obligations to those holders. Nevertheless, the debt coverage ratio is not based on the fair value of our life insurance policy assets, which may be different—greater or less—than the amount we would receive if we were forced to sell those assets in the marketplace. 25 Our controlling stockholders and principal executives are involved in a litigation “clawback” claim made by a bankruptcy trustee to an affiliate, and it is possible that the trustee may assert claims against our company. Our Chief Executive Officer, Jon R. Sabes and Chief Operating Officer, Steven F. Sabes, who together beneficially own approximately 86.1% of our common stock, are subject to litigation relating to claims by a bankruptcy trustee for loan payments made to an affiliate, Opportunity Finance, LLC. Such payments may ultimately be deemed to be avoidable transfers under preference or other legal theories. Case No. 08-45257 (U.S. Bankruptcy Court District of Minnesota). In addition, GWG Holdings invested $1 million in Opportunity Finance, LLC in 2006 and was repaid and received $176,948 of interest income from that investment in 2007. To date, no claim has been made against GWG Holdings. While we believe there are numerous meritorious defenses to the claims made by the bankruptcy trustee, and we are advised that the defendants in that action will vigorously defend against the trustee’s claims, such defendants may not prevail in the litigation with the bankruptcy trustee. If the bankruptcy trustee sought to sell or transfer the equity interests of Jon R. Sabes or Steven F. Sabes as a result of the litigation, there could be a change in control of the Company and our business together with all of our investors, including investors in our Renewable Secured Debentures, could be materially and adversely impacted. Such adverse results would likely arise in connection with negative change-in-control covenants contained in our revolving credit facility agreements, the breach of those covenants and an ensuing event of default under such facility. In addition, if the bankruptcy trustee sought to sell or transfer the equity interests of Jon R. Sabes or Steven F. Sabes as a result of the litigation, such transfers would adversely affect Renewable Secured Debentures holders by reducing the number of shares of common stock of GWG Holdings that have been pledged as collateral security for our obligations under the Renewable Secured Debentures. Finally, regardless of the outcome of this litigation, these matters are likely to distract management and reduce the time and attention that they are able to devote to our business. The loss of the services of our current executives or other key employees, or the failure to attract additional key individuals, would materially adversely affect our business operations and prospects. Our financial success is dependent to a significant degree upon the efforts of our current executive officers and other key employees. In addition, our revolving credit facility requires Messrs. Jon R. Sabes and Steven F. Sabes to generally remain active within the business. We have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Jon R. Sabes, Steven F. Sabes, Paul A. Siegert and Jon Gangelhoff. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that these individuals will continue to provide services to us. A voluntary or involuntary termination of employment could have an adverse effect on our business operations if we were not able to attract qualified replacements in a timely manner. At present, we do not maintain key-man life insurance policies for any of these individuals. In addition, our success and viability is also dependent to a significant extent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all areas of our business, especially our sales, policy acquisition, and financial management team. If we were to lose the members of our respective service teams, we would need to replace them with qualified individuals in a timely manner or our business operations and prospects could be adversely impacted. We have the discretion to purchase assets, including life insurance policies, through different subsidiaries, and to transfer assets among our subsidiaries. Any decision to purchase or hold title to assets in one subsidiary, as opposed to a different subsidiary, may affect the value of collateral security for our obligations. We may at our discretion direct the purchase of policies by, and the sale of policies and other assets amongst, different subsidiaries of GWG Holdings as a method of asset and liability management and to attempt to maintain diversification and certain ratios in our investment portfolio. Purchases of assets in, or movements of assets amongst, different subsidiaries could affect the value of the collateral security for obligations under the debentures. For example, purchases through, or transfers of life insurance policies to, DLP Funding II would cause the policies acquired by DLP Funding II to become collateral for our revolving credit facility, whereas purchases through, or transfers of life insurance policies to, GWG Life would cause the policies acquired by GWG Life to become collateral for the debentures. Moreover, we determine the sales prices for intracompany (consolidated) transfers of assets, including life insurance policies, amongst our subsidiaries. In the case of life insurance policies, intracompany sales are generally priced at the sum of the total amount theretofore advanced on the outstanding policies as of the date of transfer. These purchase prices will ordinarily not be equivalent to the fair value of the policies at the time of the transfer. Accordingly, purchases of assets such as life insurance policies through, or transfers of such assets to, different subsidiaries may affect the value of collateral security for different classes of holders of our debt. We are an “emerging growth company” and our election to delay adoption of new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies may result in our financial statements not being comparable to those of some other public companies. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of exemptions from certain reporting requirements available to “emerging growth companies” under that Act, including but not limited to not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (relating to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting), reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and any proxy statements we may be required to file, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an “emerging growth company” can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would apply to private companies. We are electing to delay such adoption of new or revised accounting standards and, as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies.” Consequently, our consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of other public companies. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” In this regard, we will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years after the first sale of our common equity securities under an effective registration statement, although if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of the next following December 31. 26 The protection provided by the federal securities laws relating to forward-looking statements does not apply to us. The lack of this protection could harm us in the event of an adverse outcome in a legal proceeding relating to forward-looking statements made by us. Although federal securities laws provide a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by a public company that files reports under the federal securities laws, this safe harbor is not available to certain issuers, including issuers that do not have their equity traded on a recognized national securities exchange. Our common stock does not trade on any recognized national securities exchange. As a result, we will not have the benefit of this safe harbor protection in the event of any legal action based upon a claim that the material provided by us contained a material misstatement of fact or was misleading in any material respect because of our failure to include any statements necessary to make the statements not misleading. The lack of this protection in a contested proceeding could harm our financial condition. Advances previously made to members of our executive management and outstanding at the time that we initially filed the registration statement for our Renewable Secured Debentures may be deemed violations of Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. That law prohibits public reporting companies from extending or maintaining credit to directors or executive officers in the form of a personal loan. Any such violations could have material and adverse effect upon our reputation and business. Prior to our conversion from a limited liability company to a corporation and the filing of the registration statement for our Renewable Secured Debentures, we made certain advances to our executive management personnel, Messrs. Jon R. Sabes, Steven F. Sabes and Paul A. Siegert, that were to be repaid by such individuals upon or in connection with operating distributions to be paid by us when the Company had cash flow sufficient to make distributions on account of their ownership interests in the Company. For further information, please refer to the “Executive Compensation” section of this report the “—Summary Compensation Table,” “—Employment Agreements and Change-in-Control Provisions,” and “—Related-Party Transactions” captions thereunder. Each of Messrs. Jon R. Sabes, Steven F. Sabes and Paul A. Siegert have repaid all outstanding advances, including all interest accrued thereon. However, because such loan advances remained outstanding at the time that we initially filed such registration statement with the SEC, we may be deemed to have inadvertently violated Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which prohibits “issuers” from extending or maintaining credit to directors or executive officers in the form of a personal loan. As defined under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the term “issuer” includes, in addition to public companies, a company that has filed a registration statement that has not yet become effective under the Securities Act of 1933 and that has not been withdrawn. Although we believe that the loan advances constitute business loans, as opposed to personal loans, regulatory authorities may not agree with this assessment if the matter is investigated and claims alleging a violation are pursued. On July 27, 2011, Messrs. Jon R. Sabes, Steven F. Sabes and Paul A. Siegert repaid their loan balances. Violations of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could result in significant penalties, including censure, cease and desist orders, revocation of registration and fines. It is also possible that the criminal penalties could exist, although criminal penalties require a related violation to have been willful, and not the result of an innocent mistake, negligence or inadvertence. In the end, it is possible that we could face any of these potential penalties or results, and any action by administrative authorities, whether or not ultimately successful, could have a material and adverse effect upon our reputation and business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 