Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to certain risks and hazards due to the nature of the business activities we conduct, including the risks discussed below and set forth elsewhere in this annual report. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into an actual event, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay distributions on our common units and the trading price of our common units could decline materially. Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient available cash to pay any quarterly distributions on our common units. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to enable us to pay any distributions to our common unitholders. The amount of cash we will be able to distribute on our common units principally depends on the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which is primarily dependent upon the operating margins we generate. Our operating margins, and thus, the cash we generate from operations have been volatile, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: · the amount of propylene we are able to produce from our facility, which could be adversely affected by, among other things, accidents, equipment failure or severe weather conditions; · the price at which we are able to sell propylene, which is affected by the supply of and demand for propylene; · the level of our operating costs, including the cost of propane, our sole feedstock, as well as the price of natural gas, and electricity and other costs; · our ability to produce propylene products that meet our customers’ specifications; · non-payment or other non-performance by our customers and suppliers; and · overall economic and local market conditions. 9 Table of Contents In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · the level of capital expenditures we make; · our debt service requirements; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; · our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; · planned and unplanned maintenance at our facility, which, based on determinations by the board of directors of our General Partner to maintain reserves, may negatively impact our cash flows in the quarters leading up to and including the quarter in which such maintenance occurs; · restrictions on distributions and on our ability to make working capital borrowings; and · the amount of cash reserves established by our General Partner. Our partnership agreement does not require us to pay a minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of distributions that we pay, if any, and the decision to pay any distribution at all, will be determined by the board of directors of our General Partner. Our quarterly distributions, if any, will be subject to significant fluctuations based on the above factors. For a description of additional restrictions and factors that may affect our ability to pay distributions, see “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Our Cash Distribution Policy.” The amount of our quarterly cash distributions, if any, can vary significantly both quarterly and annually and will be directly dependent on the performance of our business. Unlike most publicly traded partnerships, we do not have a minimum quarterly distribution or employ structures intended to consistently maintain or increase distributions over time. Investors who are looking for an investment that will pay predictable quarterly distributions should not invest in our common units. We expect our business performance will be more cyclical and volatile, and our cash flows will be less stable, than the business performance and cash flows of most publicly traded partnerships. As a result, our quarterly cash distributions will be cyclical and volatile and are expected to vary quarterly and annually. Unlike most publicly traded partnerships, we do not have a minimum quarterly distribution or employ structures intended to consistently maintain or increase distributions over time. The amount of our quarterly cash distributions will be directly dependent on the performance of our business, which will be volatile as a result of a number of factors including fluctuations in propane and propylene prices and the demand for propylene products. Because our quarterly distributions will be subject to significant fluctuations directly related to the cash we generate after payment of our fixed and variable expenses and other cash reserves established by our General Partner, future quarterly distributions paid to our unitholders will vary significantly from quarter to quarter and may be zero. Given the cyclical and volatile nature of our business, our unitholders will have direct exposure to fluctuations in the price of propylene and the cost of propane. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which may be affected by non-cash items. For example, we may have extraordinary capital expenditures and major maintenance expenses in the future. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Spending.” As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we report losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we report net income. The board of directors of our General Partner may modify or revoke our cash distribution policy at any time at its discretion. Our partnership agreement does not require us to pay any distributions at all. The board of directors of our General Partner has adopted a cash distribution policy pursuant to which we will distribute all of the available cash we generate each quarter to unitholders of record on a pro rata basis. However, the board may change such policy at any time at its discretion and could elect not to pay distributions for one or more quarters. See “Our Cash Distribution Policy.” Our partnership agreement does not require us to pay any distributions at all. Accordingly, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the permanence of such a policy in making an investment decision. Any modification or revocation of our cash distribution policy could substantially reduce or eliminate the amounts of distributions to our unitholders. The amount of distributions we make, if any, and the decision to make any distribution at all will be determined by the board of directors of our General Partner, whose interests may differ from those of our common unitholders. Our General Partner has limited fiduciary and contractual duties, which may permit it to favor its own interests or the interests of Propylene Holdings and its direct and indirect owners to the detriment of our common unitholders. 10 Table of Contents The propylene business is, and propylene prices are, cyclical and highly volatile and have experienced substantial downturns in the past. Cycles in demand and pricing could potentially expose us to significant fluctuations in our operating and financial results, and expose you to substantial volatility in our quarterly cash distributions and material reductions in the trading price of our common units. We are exposed to fluctuations in propylene demand and supply in the petrochemical industry. These fluctuations historically have had and could in the future have significant effects on prices and, in turn, significant effects on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, which could result in significant volatility in or material adverse effects on the price of our common units or our ability to make quarterly cash distributions on our common units. Propylene is a commodity, and its price can be cyclical and highly volatile. The price of propylene depends on a number of factors, including the price of crude oil and other commodities, general economic conditions, cyclical trends in end-user markets and supply and demand imbalances. Demand for propylene is dependent on demand for petrochemicals by the global construction, automotive and housing industries. Propylene supply is affected by available capacity and operating rates, raw material costs, government policies and global trade. A decrease in propylene prices not accompanied by a commensurate decrease in propane prices would have an adverse effect on our cash flow and our ability to make quarterly distributions. If propylene prices fall significantly, we may not generate sufficient revenue to operate profitably or cover our costs, and our ability to make quarterly distributions would be materially adversely affected. Similarly, if our customers nominate at the lower end of their required minimum offtake volumes and we are unable to sell sufficient quantities of our excess supply into the spot market, we may not generate sufficient sales to operate profitably or cover our costs, and our ability to make quarterly distributions will be materially adversely affected. Our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders may be adversely affected by the supply and price levels of propane. The sole feedstock used in our production is propane. The price of propane is correlated to the price of crude oil and is influenced by the price of natural gas. The prices for crude oil and natural gas are cyclical and volatile, and as a result, the price of propane can be cyclical and volatile. The propane export market may also impact the price of propane. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, propane exports increased significantly during 2013. The cost of propane represents a substantial portion of our cost of sales. If propane costs increase, the market price of propylene may not rise correspondingly or at all. Timing differences between propane prices, which may change daily, and the market price of propylene, which is set monthly, may narrow the propane-to-propylene spread and thus reduce our cash flow, which reduction could be material. Based on our current output, we obtain all of the propane we need from Enterprise through its propane pipeline system, which is connected to the natural gas liquids and refined products storage hub at Mt. Belvieu. The price that we pay Enterprise for propane fluctuates based on market prices. Propane prices could significantly increase in the future. In addition, following the expiration of our current propane supply contract, the price of storage and transportation of propane to our site is subject to change and could adversely impact our financial results. Significant price volatility or interruptions in supply of other raw materials, such as natural gas, electricity and nitrogen, may result in increased costs that we may be unable to pass on to our customers, which could reduce our profitability. The raw materials we consume, such as natural gas, electricity and nitrogen, are generally commodity products that are readily available at market prices. We generally enter into supply agreements with particular suppliers, but disruptions of existing supply arrangements could substantially impact our profitability. If certain of our suppliers are unable to meet their obligations under present supply agreements, we may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain the necessary materials from other sources. In addition, if any of the raw materials that we use become unavailable within the geographic area from which they are now sourced, then we may not be able to obtain suitable or cost effective substitutes. Any interruption in the supply of raw materials will increase our costs or decrease our sales, which will reduce our cash flow. Our supply agreements typically provide for market-based pricing and provide us no protection against price volatility. If the cost of any of our raw materials rises, the market price of propylene may not rise correspondingly or at all. Timing differences between raw material prices, which may change daily, and the market price of propylene, which is set monthly, may have a negative effect on our cash flow. Any cost increase could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our operations are dependent on third-party suppliers, including Enterprise, which owns the propane pipeline that provides propane to our facility. The inability of a third-party supplier to perform in accordance with its contractual obligations or an election by any of our suppliers not to renew our supply contracts on comparable terms could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our operations depend in large part on the performance of third-party suppliers, including Enterprise for the supply of propane, a subsidiary of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. (or “Kinder Morgan”), for the supply of natural gas and Praxair for the supply of nitrogen. Should Enterprise, Kinder Morgan, Praxair or any of our other third-party suppliers fail to perform in accordance with existing contractual arrangements, we could be forced to halt operations at our facility. Alternative sources of supply could be difficult or impossible to obtain. Any shutdown of our operations, even for a limited period, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. When our current supply contracts expire, we may be unable to obtain extensions or replacement contracts on substantially similar terms. If we are unable to find replacement contracts on terms as favorable as our current supply contracts, our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders may be materially adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Our facility faces (and the facilities of our suppliers and customers face) operating hazards and interruptions, including planned and unplanned maintenance or downtime. We could face potentially significant costs to the extent these hazards or interruptions cause a material decline in production. Our operations, located at a single location, are subject to significant operating hazards and interruptions. Any significant curtailing of production at our facility could result in materially lower levels of sales and cash flow for the duration of any shutdown and materially adversely impact our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Operations at our facility could be curtailed or partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of a number of circumstances, most of which are not within our control. With respect to planned downtime, during the fourth quarter of 2013, we completed our first plant turnaround which required us to bring the plant down for 32 days to replace the reactor catalyst and perform major maintenance on equipment to help ensure the long-term reliability of plant operations. With respect to unplanned downtime, in December of 2012, our facility experienced a mechanical failure in one of our compressors, which required approximately three weeks to repair. We plan to bring the facility down in March of 2014 for approximately eight days in order to replace two heat exchangers and perform additional work. Other scenarios that could result in a shutdown of our facility include: · unplanned maintenance or catastrophic events such as a major accident or fire, damage by severe weather, flooding or other natural disaster; · planned maintenance for catalyst change-out, repairs, plant enhancement or other purposes; · labor difficulties that result in work stoppage or slowdown; · environmental proceedings or other litigation that compel the cessation of all or a portion of the operations at our facility; · increasingly stringent environmental regulations; · a disruption in the supply of propane, natural gas or nitrogen to our facility; and · a governmental limitation on the use of propylene products, either generally or specifically those processed at our facility. The magnitude of the effect on us of any shutdown will depend on the length of the shutdown and the extent of the facility operations affected by the shutdown. A major accident, fire, flood or other event could damage our facility or the environment and the surrounding community or result in injuries or loss of life. Planned and unplanned maintenance could reduce our net income, cash flow and ability to make cash distributions during the period of time that any of our units is not operating. Any planned and unplanned future downtime could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Many of the factors described above could also affect the facilities of any of our suppliers or customers. Any significant downtime affecting a material supplier or customer could also have a material adverse effect on our operations with a resulting impact on our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our facility requires a planned maintenance turnaround approximately every three years, which could have a material impact on our cash flows and ability to make cash distributions in the quarter or quarters in which it occurs. Our turnaround in 2013 lasted 32 days. We assume future turnarounds will be of a similar duration, provided the actual duration will be dependent upon the scope of any additional work we elect to perform. Based upon the decision(s) made by the board of directors of our General Partner, the cash available for distribution in the quarter(s) preceding such a planned maintenance event may be adversely impacted by the amount of reserves the board of directors of our General Partner establishes to fund the cost of the planned maintenance event. In the period preceding our 2013 turnaround, the board of directors of our General Partner reserved $77.0 million to fund: (i) capital costs associated with the change-out of our reactor catalyst described elsewhere in this annual report, (ii) other capital and maintenance projects completed as part of the turnaround and (iii) all or a portion of the projected lost margin due to the purchase of propylene as inventory for sales to our customers during the turnaround. Additional amounts may be required to be reserved from available cash generated in a quarter subsequent to such a planned maintenance event should the scope of the actual work performed during such period be materially different than that planned. 12 Table of Contents We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business, and if an accident or event occurs that is not fully insured it could adversely affect our business. A major accident, fire, flood or other event could damage our facility or the environment and the surrounding community or result in injuries or loss of life. If we experience significant property damage, business interruption, environmental claims or other liabilities, our business could be materially adversely affected to the extent the damages or claims exceed the amount of valid and collectible insurance available to us. We are currently insured under property, business interruption, general liability (including sudden and accidental pollution liability), business automobile, workers compensation and excess liability insurance policies. The property and business interruption insurance policies have a $1.0 billion single occurrence limit with a $1.0 million deductible for physical damage and a 60-day waiting period before losses resulting from business interruptions are recoverable. The policies also contain exclusions and conditions that could have a materially adverse impact on our ability to receive indemnification thereunder, as well as customary sub-limits for particular types of losses. For example, the current property policy contains specific sub-limits of $400.0 million for damage caused by flooding and $100.0 million for damage caused by named windstorms, with deductibles of $1.0 million and $5.0 million per occurrence, respectively. We are fully exposed to all losses in excess of the applicable limits and sub-limits and for losses due to business interruptions of fewer than 60 days. In addition, our insurance portfolio does not cover all of the operating risks that we face. For example, we do not carry contingent business interruption insurance, which would reimburse us for the lost profits and expenses that resulted from an insurable loss suffered by one or more of our customers or suppliers. The occurrence of any operating risk not covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our general liability insurance policy, which includes sudden and accidental pollution coverage expires on March 1, 2015, and our property and business interruption insurance policies expire on May 1, 2014. We are currently in negotiations with our underwriters as to the extension of our property and business interruption insurance policies. Market factors, including but not limited to catastrophic perils that impact our industry, significant changes in the investment returns of insurance companies, insurance company solvency trends and industry loss ratios and loss trends, can negatively impact the future cost and availability of insurance. There can be no assurance that we will be able to buy and maintain insurance in the future with adequate limits, reasonable pricing terms and conditions. We have a limited operating history during which we have experienced both planned and unplanned downtime. As a result, you may have difficulty evaluating our ability to pay quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders or our ability to be successful in implementing our business strategy. We are dependent on our facility as our sole source of propylene and by-products to generate sales, and we are, therefore, dependent on the continued operation of this facility to generate our sales. As a newly constructed complex processing facility, the operating performance of our facility over the long-term is not yet proven. We have already encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies whose performance is dependent upon newly constructed world-scale processing or manufacturing facilities, such as the risks described in this report. Our customer contracts provide for potential maximum offtake volumes of approximately 1.4 billion pounds of propylene per year. To the extent that our supply obligations under our customer contracts exceed the volume that we can produce and the volume we have in inventory, we may need to purchase propylene from third parties in the spot market. In periods of extended planned or unplanned downtime, we may be required to purchase significant volumes of propylene in order to satisfy our contractual obligations, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Further, if we were unable to purchase the volumes of propylene necessary to satisfy our contractual obligations, we may be in default of our customer contracts. Because of our limited operating history and performance record, it is difficult for you to evaluate our business and results of operations to date and to assess our future prospects. Further, our historical financial statements present a period of limited operations, and therefore do not provide a meaningful basis for you to evaluate our operations or our ability to achieve our business strategy. We may be less successful than a seasoned company in achieving a consistent operating level at our facility capable of generating cash flows from our operations sufficient to regularly pay a quarterly cash distribution or to pay any quarterly cash distribution to our unitholders. We may also be less successful in implementing our business strategy than a seasoned company with a longer operating history. Finally, we may be less equipped to identify and address operating risks and hazards in the conduct of our business than those companies whose major facilities have longer operating histories. We face competition from other propylene producers. We consider companies with net long positions in propylene to be our direct competitors, including Enterprise, Chevron Phillips, ExxonMobil Chemical, Shell Chemical, Flint Hills and the Williams Companies. Most of our competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources than us and are engaged on a national or international basis in many segments of the petroleum products and petrochemicals business, including refining, transportation and marketing, on a scale substantially larger than ours. In addition, we may face competition from captive propylene production facilities operated by consumers of propylene, including our customers. Further, it is likely that in future years, competition will come from the construction of additional on-purpose propylene facilities. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. We depend on certain third-party pipelines to supply us with feedstock and to distribute propylene to our customers. If these pipelines become unavailable to us, our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to obtain propane and other inputs necessary for the production of propylene is dependent upon the availability of third-party pipeline systems interconnected to our facility. In addition, we depend in part on third-party pipeline systems to transport propylene to our customers. Because we do not own these pipelines, their continuing operation is not within our control. These pipelines and the pipelines we own may become unavailable for a number of reasons, including testing, maintenance, capacity constraints, accidents, government regulation or other events. If any of such pipelines become partially or completely unavailable, our ability to operate could be restricted and our transportation costs could increase, thereby reducing our profitability. A prolonged or permanent interruption in the availability of third-party or our own pipelines could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. 13 Table of Contents The growth in production of natural gas from shale formations, which is expected to lead to an increased supply of propane, may not continue at projected rates due to the uncertainty associated with the length of their production lives, legislative initiatives restricting such production, or both. Hydraulic fracturing is a process used by oil and natural gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and natural gas wells whereby water, sand and chemicals are injected under pressure into subsurface formations to stimulate natural gas production. The proliferation of hydraulic fracturing has led to a marked growth in production of natural gas and the resulting abundance of natural gas has led to a decrease in price. However, production of gas from shale formations is in its nascence, and certain industry reports have indicated that the wells may have shorter economically-viable production lives than previously anticipated. If such reports are accurate, shale gas development and production may be negatively impacted, which may lead to substantial increases in natural gas prices. Although hydraulic fracturing has been used for decades in connection with conventional or vertical wells, its use has expanded substantially in recent years as the application of hydraulic fracturing on horizontal wells drilled to produce from shale formations has expanded substantially. This expanded use of hydraulic fracturing has recently attracted increased scrutiny from federal and state officials for its potential impact on health and the environment. Adoption of legislation or any implementation of regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing, resulting in a reduction in the supply of natural gas and an increase in the price of natural gas. An increase in the price of natural gas could narrow the propane-to-propylene spread in two ways, each adversely affecting our gross margins. First, a significant increase in natural gas prices could be accompanied by an increase in the price of NGLs such as ethane. An increase in ethane prices could cause ethylene producers to favor the use of naphtha as a feedstock. Because the use of naphtha as a feedstock in the ethylene production process results in significantly more propylene as co-product than ethane, the result would be an increase in propylene production by ethylene plants. The increased supply of propylene would in turn exert downward pressure on the price of propylene, adversely affecting the price we obtain for the propylene we produce, both in the spot market and pursuant to our customer contracts, which are market-based. Second, an increase in the price of natural gas may be accompanied by an increase in the price of propane, as the majority of propane is derived from natural gas production, thereby further narrowing the propane-to-propylene spread and reducing our gross margins. We currently derive substantially all of our sales from five customers, and the loss of any of these customers without replacement on comparable terms would affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, substantially all of our sales from a limited number of customers that purchase all of the propylene we produce. For the year ended December 31, 2013, Dow, Total, INEOS, BASF, and LyondellBasell accounted for 44%, 21%, 18%, 9% and 6% of our total sales, respectively. When our current contracts with these customers expire, our customers may decide not to extend the contracts or may decide to purchase fewer pounds of propylene at lower prices during renegotiations. If at the end of their respective contract terms our customers decide not to renew these contracts, or decide to purchase fewer pounds of propylene or at lower prices, and we are unable to find replacement counterparties on terms as favorable as our current contracts, our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders may be materially adversely affected. During 2013, we amended our contracts with Total, INEOS and BASF to extend the contract terms. Our multi-year propylene supply contracts expire between 2016 and 2018. Also during 2013, we amended our contract with LyondellBasell to extend the term to December 2014. We are subject to many environmental and safety regulations that may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could reduce our profitability. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment and human health, and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on facility operations, substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as, under some environmental laws, the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. Continually increasing concerns regarding the safety of chemicals in commerce and their potential impact on the environment constitute a growing trend. Governmental, regulatory and societal demands for continuously increasing levels of product safety and environmental protection could result in continued pressure for more stringent regulatory control with respect to the chemical industry. In addition, these concerns could influence public perceptions, the viability of certain products, our reputation, the cost to comply with regulations and the ability to attract and retain employees. Moreover, changes in environmental regulations could inhibit or interrupt our operations, or require us to modify our facilities or operations. Accordingly, environmental or regulatory matters may cause us to incur significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities, which could reduce our profitability. We could incur significant expenditures in order to comply with existing or future environmental or safety laws. Capital expenditures and costs relating to environmental or safety matters will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose requirements on our operations. Capital expenditures and costs beyond those currently anticipated may therefore be required under existing or future environmental or safety laws. Furthermore, we may be liable for the costs of investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination on or from our properties or at off-site locations where we disposed of or arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials or from disposal activities that pre-dated our purchase of the facility. We may, therefore, incur additional costs and expenditures beyond those currently anticipated to address all such known and unknown situations under existing and future environmental laws. 14 Table of Contents Climate change laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. Federal climate change legislation in the United States appears unlikely in the near-term. As a result, domestic efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions continue be led by the EPA’s greenhouse gas regulations and the efforts of states. To the extent that our domestic operations are subject to the EPA’s greenhouse gas regulations, we may face increased capital and operating costs associated with new or expanded facilities. Significant expansions of our existing facility or construction of new facilities may be subject to the CAA's PSD requirements under the EPA’s greenhouse gas “Tailoring Rule.” Under a consent decree with states and environmental groups, the EPA is due to propose NSPS for greenhouse gas emissions from refineries. These standards could significantly increase the costs of constructing or adding capacity to refineries and may ultimately increase the costs or decrease the supply of refined products. Either of these events could have an adverse effect on our business. It is possible that greenhouse gas emission restrictions may increase over time. Potential consequences of such restrictions include capital costs to modify operations as necessary to meet greenhouse gas emission limits and/or additional energy costs, as well as direct compliance costs. Currently, however, it is not possible to estimate the likely financial impact of potential future regulation on our operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. If any of those effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our facilities and operations. Please read “ Environmental Matters — Climate Change ” above for a more detailed discussion. We are subject to strict laws and regulations regarding employee and process safety, as well as the prevention of accidental releases, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. Our facility is subject to the requirements of OSHA and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. OSHA requires that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that we provide this information to employees, state and local governmental authorities and local residents. In addition, the Chemical Accident Prevention Provisions adopted by the EPA under the CAA require the development of a Risk Management Plan to prevent the accidental release of hazardous substances that could harm public health or the environment. Failure to comply with these requirements, including general industry standards, record keeping requirements and monitoring and control of potential exposure to regulated substances, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders if we are subjected to significant fines or compliance costs. Instability and volatility in the global capital and credit markets could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The global capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption over the past few years. Our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders could be negatively impacted by difficult conditions and extreme volatility in the capital, credit and commodities markets and in the global economy. These factors, combined with declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, precipitated an economic recession in the U.S. and globally during 2009 and 2010. The difficult conditions in these markets and the overall economy affect us in a number of ways. For example: · As propylene is the foundation of various consumer and industrial products, periods of economic weakness negatively impact the demand for our primary product. · We may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing or refinance our current obligations on favorable terms, or at all. · Market volatility could exert downward pressure on the price of our common units, which may make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital and thereby limit our ability to grow. · Adverse market conditions could result in our significant customers experiencing financial difficulties. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and their failure to meet their financial obligations when due because of bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons could result in decreased sales and earnings for us. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. We depend on the services of the executive officers and other key personnel of our General Partner. The loss of the services of any member of our executive officer team or key employee could have an adverse effect on our business and reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Many of our key employees and management members, including our Executive Chairman and President and Chief Executive Officer, were involved with the development of our facility and thus possess extensive knowledge of our business. We may not be able to locate or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for senior management or other key employees if their services were no longer available. 15 Table of Contents Certain members of our executive management team on whom we rely to manage important aspects of our business may face conflicts regarding the allocation of their time. We rely on the executive officers and employees of our General Partner to manage our operations and activities. Under our partnership agreement, the employees and executive officers of our General Partner may, from time to time, provide management, advisory and administrative services to its affiliates and other persons. As a result of the foregoing, such employees and executive officers may face conflicts regarding the allocation of their time, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A shortage of skilled labor, together with rising labor costs, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The efficient production of propylene using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled employees. Our facility relies on technology that requires special expertise to operate efficiently and effectively. To the extent that the services of our key technical personnel become unavailable to us for any reason, we would be required to hire other personnel. We may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms or at all. We face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. If we are unable to find qualified employees, or if the cost to find qualified employees increases materially, our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Restrictions in the agreements governing our current and future indebtedness, including our credit facilities, contain or will contain significant limitations on our business operations, including our ability to pay distributions and other payments. On March 28, 2013, we and our wholly-owned finance subsidiary, PetroLogistics Finance Corp., co-issued jointly and severally $365.0 million of senior unsecured notes due 2020 (or the “senior notes”), and we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement which extended our revolving credit facility from $120 million to $170 million with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. (or the “Agent”), and the lender parties thereto. As of February 28, 2014, we had $365.0 million of senior notes outstanding and borrowing capacity of approximately $170 million under our revolving credit facility. We and our subsidiary may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders and our ability to borrow under these credit facilities to fund distributions (if we elect to do so) is subject to covenant restrictions under the agreement governing the credit facilities. We expect that our ability to make distributions to our common unitholders will depend, in part, on our ability to satisfy applicable covenants as well as the absence of a default or event of default under the facilities. If we were unable to comply with any such covenant restrictions in any quarter, our ability to pay distributions to unitholders would be curtailed or eliminated. In addition, we will be subject to covenants contained in our credit facilities, the indenture governing our senior notes and any agreement governing other future indebtedness that will, subject to significant exceptions, limit our ability and the ability of our operating subsidiary to, among other things: incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness, guarantees and other contingent obligations, incur liens, make negative pledges, pay dividends or other distributions, make payments to our subsidiary, make certain loans and investments, consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Any failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under our credit facilities or the indenture governing our senior notes. Upon a default, unless waived, the lenders under our credit facilities would have all remedies available to a secured lender and could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans, cause their loans to become due and payable in full, institute foreclosure proceedings against our or our subsidiary’s assets and force us and our subsidiary into bankruptcy or liquidation. Any increase in market interest rates would make our debt service obligations more burdensome, and in turn reduce our cash available for distributions to our unitholders. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility bear interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, such variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. Borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at a rate per annum based on an underlying base rate plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin for the term loan and the revolving credit facility ranges from 2.0% for loans bearing interest at the Alternate Base Rate to 3.0% for loans bearing interest at LIBOR. Our ability to make scheduled debt payments, to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to fund capital and non-capital expenditures necessary to maintain the condition of our operating assets, properties and systems software, as well as to provide capacity for the growth of our business, depends on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, competitive, legal and other factors. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or eliminating distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. 16 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions, incur debt or for other purposes. We cannot predict how interest rates will react to changing market conditions. Interest rates on our credit facilities, future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. Additionally, as with other yield-oriented securities, we expect that our unit price will be impacted by the level of our quarterly cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have a material adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity to fund our operations or to make acquisitions or to incur debt as well as increasing our interest costs. We are a holding company and depend upon our subsidiary for our cash flow. We are a holding company. All of our operations are conducted and all of our assets are owned by PL Propylene, our wholly-owned subsidiary and our sole direct or indirect operating subsidiary. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations or to pay cash distributions to our unitholders in the future will depend upon the cash flow of PL Propylene and the payment of funds by PL Propylene to us in the form of dividends or otherwise. The ability of PL Propylene to make any payments to us will depend on its earnings, the terms of its indebtedness, including the terms of any credit facilities, and legal restrictions. In particular, future credit facilities incurred at PL Propylene may impose significant limitations on the ability of PL Propylene to pay distributions to us and consequently our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. See also “—We may not have sufficient available cash to pay any quarterly distribution on our common units.” As a publicly traded partnership we qualify for, and rely on, certain exemptions from the New York Stock Exchange’s corporate governance requirements. As a publicly traded partnership, we qualify for, and rely on, certain exemptions from the NYSE’s corporate governance requirements, including: · the requirement that a majority of the board of directors of our General Partner consist of independent directors; · the requirement that the board of directors of our General Partner have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and · the requirement that the board of directors of our General Partner have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. As a result of these exemptions, our General Partner’s board of directors is not comprised of a majority of independent directors, our General Partner’s compensation committee is not comprised entirely of independent directors and our General Partner’s board of directors does not currently intend to establish a nominating/corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to equityholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. See “Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance — Our Management.” Risks Related to an Investment in Us The board of directors of our General Partner has adopted a policy to distribute all of the available cash we generate each quarter, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. The board of directors of our General Partner has adopted a policy to distribute all of the available cash we generate each quarter to our unitholders. As a result, our General Partner will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As such, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because the board of directors of our General Partner has adopted a policy to distribute all of the available cash we generate each quarter, our growth may not be as robust as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units will decrease the amount we distribute on each outstanding unit. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, would reduce the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. See “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Securities – Our Cash Distribution Policy.” 17 Table of Contents Our General Partner, which is indirectly owned by funds controlled by Lindsay Goldberg and York Capital, has fiduciary duties to Lindsay Goldberg and York Capital, and the interests of Lindsay Goldberg and York Capital may differ significantly from, or conflict with, the interests of our public common unitholders. Our General Partner is responsible for managing us. Although our General Partner has legal duties to manage us in good faith, these duties are specifically limited by the express terms of our partnership agreement, and the directors and officers of our General Partner also have fiduciary duties to manage our General Partner in a manner beneficial to Lindsay Goldberg and York Capital, which collectively own 84% of our General Partner. The interests of Lindsay Goldberg and York Capital may differ from, or conflict with, the interests of our common unitholders. In resolving these conflicts, our General Partner may favor its own interests or the interests of Lindsay Goldberg and York Capital over our interests and those of our common unitholders. The potential conflicts of interest include, among others, the following: · Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement will require the owners of our General Partner to pursue a business strategy that favors us. The affiliates of our General Partner have fiduciary duties to make decisions in their own best interests and in the best interest of their owners, which may be contrary to our interests. Our General Partner’s affiliates may engage in business or activities that may be in direct competition with us. In addition, our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us or our unitholders, such as its owners, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders. · Our General Partner has limited its liability and duties under our partnership agreement and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without those limitations and reductions, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing common units, unitholders consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law. · The board of directors of our General Partner has the ability to determine the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, repayment of indebtedness and issuances of additional partnership interests, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our common unitholders. · Our partnership agreement does not restrict our General Partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. There is no limitation on the amounts our General Partner can cause us to pay it or its affiliates. · Our General Partner may exercise its rights to call and purchase all of our common units if at any time it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units. · Our General Partner will control the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates. In addition, our General Partner will decide whether to retain separate counsel or others to perform services for us. · Our General Partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us. Our partnership agreement limits the liability and duties of our General Partner and restricts the remedies available to us and our common unitholders for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Fiduciary duties are generally considered to include an obligation to act in good faith and with due care and loyalty. The duty of care, in the absence of a provision in a partnership agreement providing otherwise, would generally require a general partner to act for the partnership in the same manner as a prudent person would act on his own behalf. The duty of loyalty, in the absence of a provision in a partnership agreement providing otherwise, would generally require that any action taken or transaction engaged in be entirely fair to the Partnership. Our partnership agreement limits the liability and duties of our General Partner, while also restricting the remedies available to our common unitholders for actions that, without these limitations and reductions, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Delaware partnership law permits such contractual reductions of fiduciary duty. By purchasing common units, common unitholders consent to be bound by the partnership agreement, and pursuant to our partnership agreement, each holder of common units consents to various actions and conflicts of interest contemplated in our partnership agreement that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under Delaware law. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example: · Our partnership agreement permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to its capacity as General Partner. This entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, our common unitholders. Decisions made by our General Partner in its individual capacity will be made by our sponsors, as the primary owners of our General Partner, and not by the board of directors of our General Partner. Examples include the exercise of the General Partner’s call right, its voting rights with respect to any common units it may own and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation or amendment to our partnership agreement. 18 Table of Contents · Our partnership agreement provides that our General Partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as General Partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed that the decisions were not adverse to the interests of our partnership. · Our partnership agreement provides that our General Partner and the officers and directors of our General Partner will not be liable for monetary damages to us for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our General Partner or those persons acted in bad faith or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that such person’s conduct was criminal. o Our partnership agreement provides that our General Partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is: o Approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner, although our General Partner is not obligated to seek such approval; or o Approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our General Partner and its affiliates. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our General Partner must be made in good faith. Our partnership agreement generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not involving a vote of unitholders and that are not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner must be: · on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or · “fair and reasonable” to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships between the parties involved (including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us). If our General Partner does not seek approval from the conflicts committee of its board of directors or the common unitholders, and its board of directors determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the bullet points above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors, which may include board members affected by the conflict of interest, acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the Partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. These standards reduce the obligations to which our General Partner would otherwise be held. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder will become bound by the provisions of our partnership agreement, including the provisions described above. Our sponsors have the power to appoint and remove our General Partner’s directors. Our sponsors have the power to elect all of the members of the board of directors of our General Partner. Our General Partner has control over all decisions related to our operations. See “Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance—Our Management.” Our public unitholders do not have an ability to influence any operating decisions and will not be able to prevent us from entering into any transactions. Furthermore, the goals and objectives of our sponsors, as the owner of our General Partner, may not be consistent with those of our public unitholders. Common units are subject to our General Partner’s call right. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our General Partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by public unitholders at a price not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your common units. Our General Partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our General Partner from issuing additional common units and then exercising its call right. Our General Partner may use its own discretion, free of fiduciary duty restrictions, in determining whether to exercise this right. Our unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our General Partner or our General Partner’s directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right to elect our General Partner or our General Partner’s board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our General Partner, including the independent directors, will be chosen entirely by our sponsors as the owner of the General Partner and not by our common unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we will not hold annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders. Furthermore, even if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they will have no practical ability to remove our General Partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished. 19 Table of Contents Our public unitholders do not have sufficient voting power to remove our General Partner without our sponsors’ consent. Our sponsors own approximately 63% of our common units, which means holders of common units are not able to remove the General Partner, under any circumstances, unless our sponsors sell some of the common units that they own or we sell additional units to the public. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units (other than our General Partner and its affiliates and permitted transferees). Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our General Partner, may not vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of common unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the ability of our common unitholders to influence the manner or direction of management. Cost reimbursements due to our General Partner and its affiliates will reduce cash available for distribution to you. Prior to making any distribution on our outstanding units, we will reimburse our General Partner for all expenses it incurs on our behalf including, without limitation, salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to its employees and executive officers who perform services for us. There are no limits contained in our partnership agreement on the amounts or types of expenses for which our General Partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. The payment of these amounts, including allocated overhead, to our General Partner and its affiliates could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to you. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. In the event that: (1) we make distributions to our unitholders when our nonrecourse liabilities exceed the sum of (a) the fair market value of our assets not subject to recourse liability and (b) the excess of the fair market value of our assets subject to recourse liability over such liability, or a distribution causes such a result, and (2) a unitholder knows at the time of the distribution of such circumstances, such unitholder will be liable for a period of three years from the time of the impermissible distribution to repay the distribution under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (or the “Delaware Act”). Likewise, upon the winding up of the Partnership, in the event that (1) we do not distribute assets in the following order: (a) to creditors in satisfaction of their liabilities; (b) to partners and former partners in satisfaction of liabilities for distributions owed under our partnership agreement; (c) to partners for the return of their contribution; and finally (d) to the partners in the proportions in which the partners share in distributions and (2) a unitholder knows at the time of such circumstances, then such unitholder will be liable for a period of three years from the impermissible distribution to repay the distribution under Section 17-807 of the Delaware Act. Our General Partner’s interest in us and the control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our General Partner may transfer its general partner interest in us to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of the owners of our General Partner to transfer their equity interests in our General Partner to a third party. The new equity owner of our General Partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and the officers of our General Partner with its own choices and to influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers of our General Partner. We may issue additional common units and other equity interests without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. Under our partnership agreement, we are authorized to issue an unlimited number of additional interests without a vote of the unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: · the proportionate ownership interest of unitholders immediately prior to the issuance will decrease; · the amount of cash distributions on each unit will decrease; · the ratio of our taxable income to distributions may increase; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit will be diminished; and · the market price of the common units may decline. In addition, our partnership agreement does not prohibit the issuance of equity interests by our subsidiary, which may effectively rank senior to the common units. 20 Table of Contents Units eligible for future sale may cause the price of our common units to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common units to decline. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity interests. We have 139,212,737 common units outstanding. As of March 1, 2014, 101,841,528 of such common units are owned by our sponsors and Messrs. David Lumpkins and Nathan Ticatch. In connection with our IPO, we entered into a registration rights agreement with David Lumpkins, Nathan Ticatch and our sponsors pursuant to which we may be required to register the sale of the common units they hold under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service, (or "IRS"), were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a “qualifying income” requirement. Based upon our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. However, we have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely be liable for state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because taxes would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, our treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. In Texas, the only state in which we currently conduct business, we are subject to an entity-level tax on any portion of our income that is generated in Texas in the prior year. Imposition of any such additional taxes on us or an increase in the existing tax rates would reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. If we were to conduct business in other states in the future, we may also be subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation in such states which would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. One such legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Any modification to U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the qualifying income requirement to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 21 Table of Contents You will be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. You will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability which results from that income. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests within a twelve-month period will result in the termination of us as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Lindsay Goldberg and York Capital Management collectively own approximately 63% of our common units. When combined with routine sales of our common units on the open market, material sales or transfers of their common units could cause a technical termination of our partnership. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in our filing two tax returns for one calendar year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in taxable income for the unitholder’s taxable year that includes our termination. Our termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but it would result in our being treated as a new partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes following the termination. If we were treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS recently announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the two short tax periods included in the year in which the termination occurs. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis in those units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (or “IRAs”), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. Our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our General Partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. 22 Table of Contents We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. Nonetheless, we allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions based upon the date the underlying property is placed in service. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and although the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention, such regulations are not final and do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. Accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units) may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequence of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. Unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders may become subject to other taxes, including state, local and non-U.S. taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. We currently conduct business only in Texas, which does not impose a personal income tax but does impose a tax on corporations and other entities. However, we may own property or conduct business in other states or non-U.S. countries in the future. Unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of those various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the unitholder’s responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 