ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The occurrence of any of the events described in this Risk Factors section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other of our filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In evaluating an investment in any of our securities, you should consider carefully, among other things, the factors and the specific risks set forth below. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a discussion of the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution, or any distribution, to holders of our common and subordinated units. In order to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.3250 per unit per quarter, or $1.30 per unit on an annualized basis, we require available cash of approximately $12.0 million per quarter, or $48.0 million per year. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: · the price of, and the demand for, crude oil, refined products and NGLs in the markets we serve; · the volumes of crude oil that we gather, transport and store, the throughput volumes at our refined products terminals and our NGL sales volumes; · the fees we receive for the crude oil, refined products and NGL volumes we handle; · pressures from our competitors, some of which may have significantly greater resources than us; · the cost of propane that we buy for resale, including due to disruptions in its supply, and whether we are able to pass along cost increases to our customers; · competitive pressures from other energy sources such as natural gas, which could reduce existing demand for propane; · the risk of contract cancellation, non-renewal or failure to perform by our customers, and our inability to replace such contracts and/or customers; · leaks or releases of hydrocarbons into the environment that result in significant costs and liabilities; · the level of our operating, maintenance and general and administrative expenses; and · regulatory action affecting our existing contracts, our operating costs or our operating flexibility. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · the level of capital expenditures we make; · our cost of acquisitions, if any; · our debt service requirements and other liabilities; · expenses that our general partner incurs on our behalf and are reimbursed by us, which expenses are not subject to any caps or other limits pursuant to our partnership agreement; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; · our ability to borrow funds and access the capital markets; · restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and other debt agreements; · the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner; and · other business risks affecting our cash levels. 17 Table of Contents A sustained decrease in demand for crude oil, refined products or NGLs in the areas we serve could reduce our revenues. A sustained decrease in demand for crude oil, refined products or NGLs in the areas we serve could reduce our revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand for crude oil, refined products or NGLs include: · lower demand by consumers for refined products or crude oil as a result of adverse economic conditions, an increase in the market price of crude oil, an increase in the market price of gasoline or other refined products, use by consumers of alternative fuels or an increase in the fuel economy of vehicles; · lower drilling activity in the areas served by our crude oil gathering and transportation business as a result of a decrease in the market price of crude oil or for other reasons; and · fluctuations in the demand for crude oil, such as those caused by refinery downtime or shutdowns. Certain of our operating costs and expenses are fixed and do not vary with the volumes we transport or redeliver. These costs and expenses may not decrease ratably or at all should we experience a reduction in the volumes we sell, transport or redeliver. As a result, we may experience declines in our margin and profitability if our volumes decrease. We have several short-term contracts and other contracts that can be canceled on 60 days’ notice and will have to be renegotiated or replaced periodically. Our failure to replace contracts that are canceled or expire on acceptable terms, or at all, could cause our revenues to decline and reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Many of our contracts in our NGL sales and distribution segment have terms as short as one month, and substantially all of our contracts with customers in our refined products terminals and storage segment have evergreen provisions after an initial term of six months to two years and are cancellable on as little as 60 days’ notice. In addition, many of our contracts in our crude oil supply and logistics segment either have terms as short as one month or have evergreen provisions and are cancellable on as little as 60 days’ notice. As these NGL or crude oil contracts expire or if a refined products contract is canceled, we may not be able to extend, renegotiate or replace these contracts and the terms of any renegotiated contracts may not be as favorable as the contracts they replace. In addition, while the majority of the revenue in our crude oil pipelines and storage segment is generated pursuant to long-term contracts, our customers may negotiate for more favorable terms upon any renewal. Our ability to extend or replace contracts could be impacted by a number of factors beyond our control, including competition, the level of supply and demand for crude oil and refined products in our areas of operations, general economic conditions and regulatory developments. To the extent we are unable to renew our contracts on terms that are favorable to us, our revenue and cash flows could decline and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be materially adversely affected. We face competition in all of our business segments. Competitors that are able to supply our customers with similar services or products at a lower price could reduce our revenues. We are subject to competition from other providers of crude oil transportation, storage, supply and logistics services, refined products terminals and storage services and NGL distribution and sales services, including national, regional and local companies engaged in these activities. Some of these competitors are substantially larger than us and may have greater financial resources. Our ability to compete could be affected by many factors, including: · price competition; · the perception that another company can provide better service; and · the availability of alternative supply points, or supply points located closer to the operations of our customers. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates, including JP Development, Lonestar and ArcLight, may engage in competition with us. If we are unable to compete with services offered by our competitors, including possibly our general partner or its affiliates, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If one or more material weaknesses persist or if we otherwise fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected. Prior to the completion of our initial public offering, we were a private entity with limited accounting personnel and 18 Table of Contents other supervisory resources to adequately execute our accounting processes and address our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the audits of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, our independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting relating to (1) accounting resources and policies (including maintaining an effective control environment), (2) accounting for business combinations and (3) information technology. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We did not have sufficient personnel with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge and experience commensurate with our financial reporting requirements. As a result, we did not design and maintain: · formal accounting policies and formal review controls; · effective controls over accounting for business combinations, including controls related to the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and the integration of the businesses by applying consistent accounting policies and processes to determine compliance with industry standards and regulations; and · adequate policies and procedures with respect to the primary components of information technology general controls, including the approval and review of access controls, system implementation and migration controls, and change management controls. These material weaknesses resulted in audit adjustments in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013 and the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2013, and six months ended June 30, 2013, and a restatement of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012, and the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2013. Management has also determined that the excess product gains at a refined products terminal described in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 was an additional effect of the material weakness related to business combinations and information technology described above. We are currently working towards remediating the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and are implementing additional processes and controls designed to address the underlying causes of the material weaknesses. During the course of implementing additional processes and controls, as well as controls operating effectiveness testing, we may identify additional control deficiencies, which could give rise to other material weaknesses, in addition to the material weaknesses described above. As we continue to evaluate and work to improve our internal control over financial reporting, we may determine to take additional measures to address material weaknesses or determine to modify certain of the remediation measures. If we do not properly maintain and improve our measurement and quality control processes and procedures across all of our business segments, we may have measurement and quality errors or contamination, which may result in lost revenues or the incurrence of additional costs. We are implementing measurement and quality control processes and procedures across all of our business segments. To the extent we do not properly maintain and improve such procedures, we may have measurement and quality errors or contamination that could result in lost revenues or the incurrence of additional costs. For example, in the third quarter of 2014 we became aware that certain of our measurement and quality control processes at our North Little Rock terminal were not in compliance with certain industry standards and had resulted in excess product gains for the North Little Rock terminal. We have notified our customers and have returned a certain amount of refined products to the majority of such customers for the period from November 2012 (the month we acquired the North Little Rock terminal) through July 2014. If we are unable to reach a resolution on this matter with the remaining customer, it may assert claims against us for damages. The uncertainties of litigation and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance and indemnification coverage make it difficult to accurately predict the ultimate financial effect of these claims, if any are ultimately asserted. If we are unsuccessful in defending a claim or elect to settle a claim, we could incur costs that could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We are not currently required to make an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. We are not currently required to comply with the SEC’s rules implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes Oxley”) and are therefore not required to make a formal assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for that purpose. We are required to comply with the SEC’s rules implementing Sections 302 and 404 of Sarbanes Oxley, which requires our management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Although we are required to disclose changes made to our internal control over financial reporting and procedures on a 19 Table of Contents quarterly basis, we will not be required to make our first annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of Sarbanes Oxley and our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to issue an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015. In order to have effective control over financial reporting, we will need to implement additional internal controls, reporting systems and procedures. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal control over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm’s, future conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Any failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting will subject us to regulatory scrutiny and could result in a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units. Because of the natural decline in production from our customers’ existing wells in our areas of operation, we depend, in part, on producers replacing declining production and also on our ability to secure new sources of crude oil. Any decrease in the volumes of crude oil that we transport could adversely affect our business and operating results. The crude oil volumes that support our crude oil pipelines and storage segment and crude oil supply and logistics segment depend on the level of production from crude oil wells on which we rely for throughput or sales and transportation volumes, which may be less than expected and will naturally decline over time. As a result, our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. In order to maintain or increase throughput or sales and transportation volumes in these segments, we must obtain new sources of crude oil. In our crude oil pipelines and storage segment, the primary factors affecting our ability to obtain non-dedicated sources of crude oil include (i) the level of successful drilling activity in our areas of operation, (ii) our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells and (iii) our ability to compete successfully for volumes from sources connected to other pipelines. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells on which we rely for throughput or sales and transportation volumes or the rate at which production from such wells declines. In addition, we have no control over producers or their drilling or production decisions, which are affected by, among other things: · the availability and cost of capital; · prevailing and projected oil, natural gas and NGL prices; · demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs; · levels of reserves; · geological considerations; · environmental or other governmental regulations, including the availability of drilling permits and the regulation of hydraulic fracturing; and · the availability of drilling rigs and other costs of production and equipment. Fluctuations in energy prices can also greatly affect the development of oil reserves. Drilling and production activity generally decreases as oil prices decrease. Declines in oil prices could have a negative impact on exploration, development and production activity, and if sustained, could lead to a material decrease in exploration and production activity. Any sustained decline of exploration or production activity in our areas of operation could lead to reduced utilization of our assets. Because of these and other factors, even if oil reserves are known to exist in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If reductions in drilling activity result in our inability to maintain throughput in our crude oil pipelines and storage segment and our sales and transportation volumes in our crude oil supply and logistics segment, our revenue and cash flow could be reduced and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We do not intend to obtain independent evaluations of oil reserves connected to our Silver Dollar Pipeline System on a regular or ongoing basis; therefore, in the future, volumes of oil on our Silver Dollar Pipeline System could be less than we anticipate. We do not intend to obtain independent evaluations of oil reserves connected to our Silver Dollar Pipeline System on a regular or ongoing basis. Accordingly, we may not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to our Silver Dollar Pipeline System or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our Silver Dollar Pipeline System are less than we anticipate and if our customers are unable to secure additional sources of crude oil production it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our success in our crude oil pipelines business depends, in part, on drilling activity and our ability to attract and maintain customers in a limited number of geographic areas. Our Silver Dollar Pipeline System is located in the Midland Basin and we intend to focus future capital expenditures on developing our business in this area. Due to our focus on the Spraberry, Wolfberry and Wolfcamp plays in the Midland Basin, an adverse development in oil production from this area would have a greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we spread expenditures more evenly over a wider geographic area. For example, a change in the rules and regulations governing operations in or around the Midland Basin or a continued decline in oil prices could cause producers to reduce or cease drilling or to permanently or temporarily shut-in their production within the area, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We may not be able to increase throughput and resulting revenue due to competition and other factors, which could limit our ability to grow our crude oil pipelines and storage segment. Our ability to increase our throughput and resulting revenue is subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including competition from third parties and the extent to which our Silver Dollar Pipeline System has available takeaway capacity. To the extent that we lack available capacity on our Silver Dollar Pipeline System for additional volumes, we may not be able to compete effectively with third-party systems for additional oil production in our areas of operation. In addition, our efforts to attract new customers may be adversely affected by our desire to provide services pursuant to contracts that are effectively fee-based. Our potential customers may prefer to obtain services pursuant to other forms of contractual arrangements under which we would be required to assume direct commodity exposure. Our crude oil supply and logistics operations involve market and regulatory risks. As part of our crude oil supply and logistics activities, we purchase crude oil at prices determined by prevailing market conditions. Following our purchase of crude oil, we generally resell crude oil at a higher price under a sales contract that is generally comparable in terms to our purchase contract, including any price escalation provisions. The profitability of our crude oil logistics operations may be affected by the following factors: · our ability to negotiate crude oil purchase and sales agreements in changing markets on a timely basis; · reluctance of customers to enter into long-term purchase contracts; · consumers’ willingness to use other fuels instead of the end products in the crude oil supply chain; · the timing of imbalance or volume discrepancy corrections and their impact on our financial results; · the ability of our customers to make timely payment; and · any inability we may have to match purchase and sale of crude oil on comparable terms. We depend on a relatively limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of, or material nonpayment or nonperformance by, any one or more of these customers could adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We rely on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues. Glencore, Ltd., Chesapeake Energy Marketing, Inc. and Phillips 66 each accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014, at approximately 37%, 10% and 10%, respectively. We may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of contracts with our key customers on favorable terms or at all. In addition, these key customers may experience financial problems that could have a significant effect on their creditworthiness. Severe financial problems encountered by our 21 Table of Contents customers could limit our ability to collect amounts owed to us, or to enforce performance of obligations under contractual arrangements. Furthermore, our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. The loss of all or even a portion of the contracted volumes of these key customers, as a result of competition, creditworthiness or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Midstream capacity constraints and interruptions could impact our operations. We rely on various midstream facilities and systems in connection with our crude oil supply and logistics operations. Such midstream systems include the systems we operate, as well as systems operated by third parties. When possible, we gain access to midstream systems that provide the most advantageous downstream market prices available to us. Regardless of who operates the midstream systems we rely upon, a portion of the supply in our crude oil supply and logistics business may be interrupted or shut-in from time to time due to loss of access to plants, pipelines or gathering systems. Such access could be lost due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, weather conditions, accidents, field labor issues or strikes. Additionally, we and third parties may be subject to constraints that limit our ability to construct, maintain or repair midstream facilities needed in connection with our crude oil supply and logistics operations. Such interruptions or constraints could negatively impact our profitability. The risk management policy governing our crude oil supply activities cannot eliminate all risks associated with our crude oil supply and logistics business, and we cannot ensure that employees of our general partner will fully comply with the policy at all times, both of which could impact our financial and operational results and, in turn, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We have in place a risk management policy that seeks to establish limits for the exposure in our crude oil supply and logistics business by requiring that we restrict net open positions through the concurrent purchase and sale of like quantities of crude oil to create transactions intended to lock in positive margins based on the timing, location or quality of the crude oil purchased and delivered. Our risk management policy, however, cannot eliminate all risks. Any event that disrupts our anticipated physical supply of crude oil could create a net open position that would expose us to risk of loss resulting from price changes. Moreover, we are exposed to price movements on products that are not hedged, such as our crude oil linefill, which must be maintained to operate our crude oil pipeline system. We are also exposed to certain price risks related to basis differentials. Basis differentials can be created to the extent that we hold or sell crude oil of a grade or quality at a location or at a time that differs from the specific delivery terms with respect to grade, quality, time or location of the applicable offsetting agreement. If this occurs, we may not be able to use the physical markets to fully hedge our price risk. Our exposure to price risks could impact our operational and financial results and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We are also subject to the risk that employees of our general partner involved in our crude oil supply operations may not comply at all times with our risk management policy. We cannot ensure that all violations of our risk management policy, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved, will be detected prior to our businesses being materially affected. A prolonged decline in index prices at Cushing, relative to other index prices, could reduce the demand for the services we provide in our crude oil storage business. In recent years, a shortfall in takeaway pipeline capacity has at times led to an oversupply of crude oil at Cushing. This was cited as a principal reason for the decline in the West Texas Intermediate Index (“WTI Index”) price used at Cushing relative to other crude oil price indexes, including the Brent Crude Index over the same period. While the WTI Index price has recovered compared to the Brent Crude Index, a renewed decline in the WTI Index price relative to other index prices may reduce demand for our transportation of crude oil to, and storage at our facility in, Cushing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The results of our crude oil storage business could be adversely affected during periods in which the overall forward market for crude oil is backwardated. The results of our crude oil storage business are influenced by the overall forward market for crude oil. A contango market (meaning that the price of crude oil for future delivery is higher than the current price) has a favorable impact on the demand for crude oil storage as it allows a party to simultaneously purchase crude oil at current prices for storage and sell at 22 Table of Contents higher prices for future delivery. Conversely, a backwardated market (meaning that the price of crude oil for future deliveries is lower than current prices) can negatively affect the demand for crude oil storage because there is little incentive to store crude oil when prices offered for future delivery are expected to be lower. Accordingly, a backwardated market can negatively impact the demand for crude oil storage. If the forward market for crude oil is backwardated at times when we are renewing our crude oil storage contract or entering into new crude oil storage contracts, it could adversely affect the results in our crude oil storage business. All of our operations have indirect exposure to changes in commodity prices and some of our operations have direct exposure to commodity price changes. Our operations have limited direct exposure to changes in commodity prices. However, the volumes of crude oil that we transport, store or supply, refined products that we handle and NGLs that we distribute and sell are indirectly affected by commodity prices because many of our customers have direct exposure to commodity prices. If our customers are negatively impacted by changes in commodity prices, they may, among other things, reduce the services they purchase from us. For example, lower crude oil prices could suppress drilling activity, which would reduce demand for our crude oil pipeline, storage or supply and logistics services, while higher refined products prices could decrease consumer demand for refined products, which could reduce demand for services we provide at our refined products terminals. In addition, in our refined products terminals and storage segment, we also generate revenue from (i) blending activities, such as ethanol blending and butane blending, and (ii) our vapor recovery units. Our blending activities are subject to direct commodity price exposure. Any significant reduction in the amount of services we provide to our customers because of direct or indirect commodity price exposure and any significant reduction in the refined products that we sell could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We do not operate our crude oil storage facility. TEPPCO Partners L.P., a wholly owned subsidiary of Enterprise Products Partners L.P., serves as the operator of our crude oil storage facility. Under the operating agreement governing TEPPCO’s operation of our facility, we are liable for any losses or claims arising from damage to our property or personal injury claims of our personnel that may result from the actions of the operator, even if such losses or claims result from the operator’s gross negligence or willful misconduct. If disputes arise over operation of our crude oil storage facility, or if our operator fails to provide the services contracted under the agreement, our business, results of operation, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Changes in trucking regulations may increase our costs or make it more difficult for us to attract or retain qualified drivers, which could negatively affect our results of operations. In connection with the services we provide, we operate as a motor carrier and, therefore, are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation (the “DOT”), and by various state agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers, governing activities such as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations and regulatory safety. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry that we are subject to, including testing and specification of equipment and product handling requirements. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload services. These possible changes include increasingly stringent environmental regulations, changes in the regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive in any specific period, onboard black box recorder devices or limits on vehicle weight and size. In addition, the already substantial competition for qualified drivers in the trucking industry may increase because of regulatory requirements. For instance, Comprehensive Safety Analysis 2010 (“CSA”) has been implemented by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, an agency of the DOT, to monitor and improve commercial motor vehicle safety by measuring the safety record of both the motor carrier and the driver. The requirements of CSA could shrink the pool of qualified drivers and increase the costs we incur in order to attract, train and retain qualified drivers. In addition, a shortage of qualified drivers could increase driver turnover rates, which might limit growth in our crude oil supply and logistics or other segments. Our refined products terminals are dependent upon their interconnections with terminals and pipelines owned and operated by others. Our refined products terminals are dependent upon their interconnections with other terminals and pipelines owned and operated by third parties to reach end markets and as a significant source of supply. Our North Little Rock terminal is supplied by the TEPPCO Pipeline while our Caddo Mills terminal is supplied by the Explorer Pipeline. Reduced or interrupted throughput on these pipelines or outages at terminals with which our refined products terminals share 23 Table of Contents interconnects because of weather or other natural events, testing, line repair, damage, reduced operating pressures or other causes could result in our being unable to deliver refined products to our customers from our terminals or receive products for storage at our terminals, which could adversely affect our cash flows and revenues. In addition, in the event that one of the pipelines depended upon by either of our refined products terminals modifies its tariff to discontinue service for one or more of the products throughput at our terminals, we will have to discontinue selling or secure an alternate supply of such product. This could have a material adverse impact on the throughput volumes and revenues of our refined products terminals and storage segment. The assets in our refined products terminals and storage segment have been in service for several decades. Our refined products terminals and storage assets are generally long-lived assets. Our North Little Rock terminal has been in service for approximately 35 years, and our Caddo Mills terminal has been in service for approximately 30 years. The age and condition of these assets could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures. Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Warm weather in the winter heating season or inclement weather in the summer grilling season could lower demand for propane. Weather conditions have a significant impact on the demand for propane for both heating and agricultural purposes. Many of our customers rely on propane primarily as a heating source during the winter. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we sold approximately 65% of our retail, commercial and wholesale propane volumes during the first and fourth quarters of the year. Actual weather conditions can vary substantially from year to year, significantly affecting our financial performance. For example, in 2014 the average temperature in the seven states in which we operate was 4% warmer than normal, as measured by the number of heating degree days reported by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (“NOAA”). Conversely, our cylinder exchange business experiences higher volumes in the spring and summer, which includes the majority of the grilling season. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we sold approximately 57% of the propane volumes in our cylinder exchange business during the second and third quarters of the year. Sustained periods of poor weather, particularly in the grilling season, can reduce consumers’ propensity to purchase and use grills and other propane-fueled appliances, thereby reducing demand for cylinder exchange and our outdoor products. Sudden and sharp propane cost increases cannot be passed on to customers with contracted pricing arrangements and these contracted pricing arrangements will adversely affect our profit margins if they are not immediately hedged with an offsetting propane purchase commitment. Results of operations related to the retail distribution of propane is primarily based on the cents-per-gallon difference between the sales price we charge our customers and our costs to purchase and deliver propane to our propane distribution locations. We enter into propane sales commitments with a portion of our customers that provide for a contracted price agreement for a specified period of time. The propane cost per gallon is subject to various market conditions and may fluctuate based on changes in demand, supply and other energy commodity prices, such as crude oil and natural gas prices. We employ risk management techniques that attempt to mitigate risks related to the purchasing, storing, transporting and selling of propane. However, sudden and sharp propane cost increases cannot be passed on to customers with contracted pricing arrangements. In addition, even upon the expiration of short-term contracts, we may face competitive or relationship pressure to minimize any price increases. Therefore, these commitments expose us to product price risk and reduced profit margins if those transactions are not immediately hedged with an offsetting propane purchase commitment. High prices for propane can lead to customer conservation and attrition, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Propane prices are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in wholesale prices and other market conditions beyond our control. Therefore, our average retail sales prices can vary significantly within a heating season or from year to year as wholesale prices fluctuate with propane commodity market conditions. During periods of high propane costs our selling prices generally increase. High prices can lead to customer conservation and attrition, resulting in reduced demand for our products. 24 Table of Contents We are dependent on certain principal propane suppliers, which increases the risks from an interruption in supply and transportation. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we purchased 66% of our propane needs from four suppliers. If supplies from these sources were interrupted, the cost of procuring replacement supplies and transporting those supplies from alternative locations might be materially higher and our earnings could be affected. Additionally, in certain areas, based on favorable pricing or the strategic location of certain supply points, a single supplier may provide more than 75% of our propane requirements for that area. Although we have relationships with other suppliers in these areas and have the ability to acquire product elsewhere, in the event of a supply disruption with our primary suppliers in certain regions, we could be forced to purchase propane at a less favorable price and with a higher transportation cost. Accordingly, disruptions in supply in certain areas could also have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Energy efficiency, advances in technology and competition from other energy sources may affect demand for propane and increases in propane prices may cause our residential customers to increase their conservation efforts. The national trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, has generally reduced the demand for propane. Propane also competes with other sources of energy such as electricity, natural gas and fuel oil, some of which can be less costly for equivalent energy value. In particular, the gradual expansion of the nation’s natural gas distribution systems has increased the availability of affordable natural gas in rural areas, which historically found propane to be the more cost-effective choice. We cannot predict the effect that future conservation measures, technological advances in heating, conservation, energy generation or other devices or the development of alternative energy sources might have on our operations. As the price of propane increases, some of our customers tend to increase their conservation efforts and thereby decrease their consumption of propane. If the independently owned third-party haulers that we rely upon for the delivery of propane cylinders from our production facilities to certain of our distribution depots do not perform as expected, or if we or these third-party haulers are not able to manage growth effectively, our relationships with our customers may be adversely impacted and our delivery of propane by cylinder exchange may decline. We rely in part on independently owned third-party haulers to deliver cylinders from our production facilities to certain of our distribution depots. Accordingly, our success depends on our ability to maintain and manage relationships with these third-party haulers. We exercise only limited influence over the resources that the third-party haulers devote to the delivery of cylinders. We could experience a loss of consumer or retailer goodwill if our third-party haulers do not adhere to our quality control and service guidelines or fail to ensure the timely delivery of an adequate supply of propane cylinders to certain of our production depots. In addition, the number of retail locations accepting delivery of our propane by cylinder exchange and, subsequently, the retailer’s corresponding sales have historically grown significantly along with the creation of our third-party hauler network. Accordingly, our haulers must be able to adequately service an increasing number of propane cylinder deliveries to our distribution depots so that we can service our retail accounts. If we or our third-party haulers fail to manage the growth of our cylinder exchange operations effectively, our financial results from our delivery of propane by cylinder exchange may be adversely affected. A significant increase in motor fuel costs or other commodity prices may adversely affect our profits. Motor fuel is a significant operating expense for us in connection with the operation of both our crude oil supply and logistics and NGL distribution and sales segments. Because we do not attempt to hedge motor fuel price risk, a significant increase in motor fuel prices will result in increased transportation costs to us. The price and supply of motor fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events we cannot control, such as geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil-producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and weather concerns. Additionally, we may be affected by increases in the cost of materials used to produce portable propane cylinders. As a result, any increases in these prices may adversely affect our profitability and competitiveness. Our failure or our counterparties’ failure to perform on obligations under commodity derivative and financial derivative contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We enter into hedging arrangements on a rolling twelve-month basis to manage the cost of propane in our cylinder exchange business. We also may from time to time enter into derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to variable interest rates. Volatility in the oil and gas commodities sector for an extended period of time or intense volatility in the near-term could impair our or our counterparties’ ability to meet margin calls, which could cause us or our counterparties to default on commodity and financial derivative contracts. This could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or our ability to procure product supply at prices reasonable to us or at all. 25 Table of Contents We are exposed to the credit risks, and certain other risks, of our key customers and other counterparties. In connection with the acquisition of certain of our assets, we have entered into agreements pursuant to which various counterparties have agreed to indemnify us, subject to certain limitations, for (i) certain pre-closing environmental liabilities discovered within specified time periods after the date of the applicable acquisition, (ii) certain matters arising from the pre-closing ownership and operation of assets and (iii) ongoing remediation related to the assets. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected in the future if these third parties fail to satisfy an indemnification obligation owed to us. We intend to grow our business in part by seeking strategic acquisition opportunities. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from JP Development, ArcLight Fund V or third parties, our future growth will be affected, and the acquisitions we do make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. Our ability to grow is dependent, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that increase our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. The acquisition component of our strategy is based in large part on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of midstream energy assets by industry participants, including our affiliates. Subject to the right of first offer granted to us, JP Development and ArcLight Fund V are under no obligation to offer to sell us assets and a material decrease in such divestitures by industry participants would limit our opportunities for future acquisitions and could adversely affect our ability to grow our operations and increase our cash distributions to our unitholders. If we are unable to make accretive acquisitions, whether because we are (i) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, (ii) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or (iii) outbid by competitors or for any other reason, then our future growth and ability to increase cash distributions could be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from our operations on a per unit basis. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: · mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenue and costs, including operational synergies; · an inability to secure adequate customer commitments to use the acquired assets or businesses; · an inability to successfully integrate the assets or businesses we acquire, particularly given the relatively small size of our management team and its limited history with our assets; · the assumption of unknown liabilities; · limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; · unforeseen difficulties operating in new geographic areas and business lines; and · customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and our unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. Our right of first offer to acquire certain ArcLight assets and all of JP Development’s existing and future assets is subject to risks and uncertainty, and ultimately we may not acquire any of those assets. Our Right of First Offer Agreement with JP Development and ArcLight Fund V provides us with a right of first offer on (i) JP Development’s existing and future assets for a period of five years from the closing of our initial public offering and (ii) ArcLight Fund V’s indirect 50% interest in Republic for a period of eighteen months from the closing of our initial public offering. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions of these assets will depend upon, among other things, JP Development’s and ArcLight Fund V’s willingness to offer these assets for sale, our ability to negotiate acceptable purchase agreements and commercial agreements with respect to such assets and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisitions pursuant 26 Table of Contents to our right of first offer, and JP Development and ArcLight Fund V are under no obligation to accept any offer that we may choose to make in response to any notice by JP Development or ArcLight Fund V of their intent to transfer assets. In addition, certain of the assets covered by our right of first offer may require substantial capital expenditures in order to maintain compliance with applicable regulatory requirements or otherwise make them suitable for our commercial needs. For these or a variety of other reasons, we may decide not to exercise our right of first offer if and when any of JP Development’s or ArcLight Fund V’s assets are offered for sale, and our decision will not be subject to unitholder approval. Our construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through organic growth projects. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing assets and the construction of new midstream assets involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic uncertainties that are beyond our control. Such expansion projects may also require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, and financing may not be available on economically acceptable terms or at all. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all. Moreover, our revenue may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. Our growth strategy requires access to new capital. Tightened capital markets or increased competition for investment opportunities could impair our ability to grow. We continuously consider potential acquisitions and opportunities for organic growth projects. Our ability to fund our capital projects and make acquisitions depends on whether we can access the necessary financing to fund these activities. Any limitations on our access to capital or increase in the cost of that capital could significantly impair our growth strategy. In addition, a variety of factors beyond our control could impact the availability or cost of capital, including domestic or international economic conditions, changes in key benchmark interest rates, the adoption of new or amended banking or capital market laws or regulations, the re-pricing of market risks and volatility in capital and financial markets. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding for our capital needs will be available from bank credit arrangements or the capital markets on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our growth strategy, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions and organic growth projects, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the product quality specifications of the crude oil and refined products that we gather, store, transport and handle. The crude oil and refined products that we gather, store, transport and handle are sold by our customers for consumption into the public market. Various federal, state and local agencies have the authority to prescribe specific product quality specifications to commodities sold into the public market. Changes in product quality specifications could reduce our throughput volume, require us to incur additional handling costs or require the expenditure of significant capital. In addition, different product specifications for different markets impact the fungibility of products transported and stored in our refined products terminals and could require the construction of additional facilities to segregate products with different specifications. We may be unable to recover these costs through increased revenues. We are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection. These laws include federal and state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions, regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may be or have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which our wastes are or have been transported for disposal, regulate discharges from our facilities into state and federal waters, including wetlands, establish strict liability for releases of oil into waters of the United States, impose requirements for the storage, treatment and disposal of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities, relate to the protection of endangered flora and fauna and impose requirements on the use, storage and disposal of various chemicals and chemical substances at our facilities. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital or operating expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our facilities, and the imposition of substantial liabilities and remedial obligations for pollution resulting from our operations or at locations currently or previously owned or operated by us. Joint and several strict liability may be incurred, without regard to fault, under certain of these environmental laws and regulations in connection with 27 Table of Contents discharges or releases of hydrocarbon wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, some of which have been used for midstream activities for a number of years, oftentimes by third parties not under our control. Private parties, including the owners of the facilities where any wastes we generate are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly corrective actions or costly pollution control measures. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. In addition, we may experience a delay in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits or regulatory authorizations, which may cause us to lose potential and current customers, interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue. More stringent laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. We may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance. Climate change legislation or regulatory initiatives could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the services we provide. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act (“CAA”). Accordingly, the EPA adopted emissions limits for motor vehicles, which then triggered the development and adoption of construction and operating permit requirements under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V programs for certain stationary sources. In addition, the EPA has adopted a mandatory GHG emissions reporting program that imposes reporting and monitoring requirements on various types of facilities and industries. In November 2010, the EPA expanded its GHG reporting rule to include onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution facilities, requiring reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities on an annual basis. In December 2014, the EPA proposed additional amendments to its greenhouse gas reporting rule, which could add reporting requirements for additional facilities. While Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of federal climate legislation in the United States, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. If Congress undertakes comprehensive tax reform, it is possible that such reform may include a carbon tax, which could impose additional direct costs on operations and reduce demand for refined products. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would affect our business, any such future laws and regulations could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements, including the imposition of a carbon tax. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for crude oil or refined products produced or distributed by our customers, which could in turn reduce revenues we are able to generate by providing services to our customers. Accordingly, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in crude oil, natural gas and NGL production in our areas of operation, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in crude oil, natural gas and NGL production by our customers, which could materially adversely impact our revenues. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into geographic formations to stimulate hydrocarbon production. Although we do not engage in hydraulic fracturing activities, an increasing percentage of hydrocarbon production by our customers and suppliers is developed from unconventional sources, such as shales, that require hydraulic fracturing as part of the completion process. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. Some states, including 28 Table of Contents those in which we operate, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent disclosure and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. In addition, a number of federal agencies, including the EPA and the Department of Energy, are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing, and have asserted federal regulatory authority over the process. Moreover, Congress from time to time has proposed legislation to more closely and uniformly regulate hydraulic fracturing at the federal level. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for our customers to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the volume of hydrocarbons that our customers produce, and could thereby adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not adequately insured or if we fail to recover all anticipated insurance proceeds for significant accidents or events for which we are insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in the crude oil transportation, storage, supply and logistics, refined products terminals and storage and NGL distribution and sales industries, including: · damage to our facilities, vehicles and equipment caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters, acts of terrorism and actions by third parties; · inadvertent damage from construction, vehicles, farm and utility equipment; · leaks of crude oil, NGLs and other hydrocarbons or losses of crude oil or NGLs as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities; · ruptures, fires and explosions; and · other hazards that could also result in personal injury, loss of life, pollution or suspension of operations. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. These risks may also result in curtailment or suspension of our operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent in our business. For example our business interruption/loss of income insurance provides limited coverage in the event of damage to any of our underground storage tanks. In addition, although we are insured for environmental pollution resulting from certain environmental incidents, we may not be insured against all environmental incidents that might occur, some of which may result in toxic tort claims. If a significant incident occurs for which we are not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. We are subject to litigation risks that could adversely affect our operating results to the extent not covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks normally associated with handling, storing and delivering combustible liquids such as NGLs, refined products and crude oil. We have been, and are likely to continue to be, a defendant in various legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, both as a result of these operating hazards and risks and as a result of other aspects of our business. We are self-insured for general and product, workers’ compensation and automobile liabilities up to predetermined amounts above which third-party insurance applies. We cannot guarantee that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that these levels of insurance will be available at economical prices, or that all legal matters that arise will be covered by our insurance programs. Because our common units are yield-oriented securities, increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Interest rates are likely to increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on our future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by our level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who 29 Table of Contents invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at intended levels. Debt we may incur in the future could limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. We have approximately $83.0 million of total indebtedness and $145.7 million available for future borrowings under our revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2014. Our future level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; · our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and cash distributions to our unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt; · we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and · our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our unitholders and value of our common units. Our revolving credit facility limits our ability to, among other things: · incur or guarantee additional debt; · make distributions on or redeem or repurchase units; · make certain investments and acquisitions; · make capital expenditures; · incur certain liens or permit them to exist; · enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; · merge or consolidate with or into another company; and · transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of our assets. Our revolving credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and tests. The provisions of our revolving credit facility may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with, or obtain a waiver of, the provisions of our revolving credit facility could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to terminate the remaining commitments under our revolving credit facility and declare the outstanding principal thereunder, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If 30 Table of Contents the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Cyber-attacks and threats could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Cyber-attacks may significantly affect our operations and those of our customers. Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets, may be at greater risk of future attacks than other targets in the United States. We do not maintain specialized insurance for possible liability resulting from a cyber-attack on our assets that may shut down all or part of our business. We currently are implementing our own cyber security programs and protocols; however, we cannot guarantee their effectiveness. A significant cyber-attack could have a material adverse effect on our operations or those of our customers. The risk of terrorism, political unrest and hostilities in the Middle East or other energy producing regions may adversely affect the economy and our business. Terrorist attacks, political unrest and hostilities in the Middle East or other energy producing regions may adversely impact the price and availability of crude oil, refined products and NGLs, as well as our results of operations, our ability to raise capital and our future growth. The impact that the foregoing may have on our industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. An act of terror could result in disruptions of crude oil and NGL supplies and markets, and our infrastructure or facilities could be direct or indirect targets. Terrorist activity may also hinder our ability to gather and transport crude oil, refined products and NGLs if our means of transportation become damaged as a result of an attack. We have opted to purchase insurance coverage for terrorist acts within our property and casualty insurance programs, but we can give no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to fully compensate us for any losses to our business or property resulting from terrorist acts. Derivatives legislation adopted by Congress and rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the CFTC could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law in 2010 and regulates derivative and commodity transactions, which include certain instruments used in our risk management activities. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”), the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the legislation. While many of the regulations are already in effect, the implementation process is still ongoing, and we cannot yet predict the ultimate effect of the regulations on our business. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC may finalize its regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents, although certain bona fide hedging transactions would be exempt from these position limits provided that various conditions are satisfied. Once finalized, the position limits rule and its companion rule on aggregation may have an impact on our ability to hedge our exposure to certain commodities. The Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules also will require us, in connection with certain derivatives activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption, such as the end-user exception, to such requirements). As the CFTC further designates swap contracts as required to be cleared and traded on a trading facility, the utility of exemptions such as the end-user exception will become even more important. Our ability to rely on the end-user exception may impact the effectiveness of our hedging activities. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could, among other things, significantly increase the cost of entering into derivative and commodity contracts (including from swap recordkeeping and reporting requirements), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of some derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, require greater collateral support (e.g., initial and variation margin) for derivative contracts, and potentially increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution. Because the CFTC is still in the process of interpreting its regulations, it is possible that some of the derivative and commodity contracts used in our business may be treated differently in the future. For example, the CFTC may further revise its definitions for spots, forwards, forwards with volumetric optionality, trade options, full requirements contracts and certain other contracts that may combine the elements of physical commodity trades and cash settlement, netting and book-outs. If these contracts were classified as swaps, the costs of entering into these contracts will likely increase. 31 Table of Contents Finally, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC is also directed generally to prevent price manipulation and fraud in physical commodities markets traded in interstate commerce, including physical energy and other commodities, as well as financial instruments, such as futures, options and swaps. The CFTC has adopted additional anti-market manipulation, anti-fraud and disruptive trading practices regulations that prohibit, among other things, fraud and price manipulation in the physical commodities, futures, options and swaps markets. Accordingly, the CFTC and the self-regulatory organizations (“SROs”), such as commodity futures exchanges, are continuing to develop their respective enforcement authorities and compliance priorities under the Dodd-Frank Act. Given the novelty of the regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act, it is difficult to predict how these new enforcement priorities of the CFTC and the SROs will impact our business. Should we violate the laws regulating hedging activities or regulations promulgated by the CFTC or any rules adopted by the SROs thereunder, we could be subject to CFTC enforcement action and material penalties and sanctions. Our ability to operate our business effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key management personnel and employees. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies will depend on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled management personnel with energy industry experience. Competition for these persons in the energy industry is intense. For instance, given the overall demand for crude oil transportation services, qualified drivers of crude oil gathering and transportation trucks are in high demand. We may be unable to attract and retain enough qualified drivers to effectively service our customers. Additionally, given our size, we may be at a disadvantage, relative to our larger competitors, in the competition to attract and retain such personnel. We may not be able to continue to employ our senior executives and key personnel or attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, and our failure to retain or attract senior executives and key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively operate our business. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common and subordinated units depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on our profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income for financial accounting purposes. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our general partner and its affiliates, including Lonestar, JP Development and ArcLight, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to our detriment and that of our unitholders. CB Capital Holdings II, LLC and JP Energy GP LLC (two entities that are owned and controlled by certain members of management) and Lonestar own and control our general partner and its non-economic general partner interest in us. In addition, management owns an aggregate 4.8% limited partner interest in us and Lonestar owns a 51.3% limited partner interest in us. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that it believes is in the best interests of our partnership and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner also have a duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is in the best interests of its owners. Conflicts of interest may arise between CB Capital Holdings II, LLC, JP Energy GP LLC, Lonestar, JP Development and ArcLight and their affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including Lonestar, JP Development and ArcLight, over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following: · neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires CB Capital Holdings II, LLC, JP Energy GP LLC, Lonestar, JP Development or ArcLight to pursue a business strategy that favors us; · our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limiting our general partner’s liabilities and restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; 32 Table of Contents · certain officers and directors of our general partner are officers or directors of affiliates of our general partner, including CB Capital Holdings II, LLC, JP Energy GP LLC, Lonestar and JP Development, and also devote significant time to the business of these entities and are compensated accordingly; · affiliates of our general partner are not limited in their ability to compete with us and may offer business opportunities or sell midstream assets to parties other than us, subject to the right of first offer that JP Development and ArcLight Fund V have granted us; · except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; · our general partner will determine the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; · our general partner will determine the amount and timing of many of our cash expenditures and whether a cash expenditure is classified as an expansion capital expenditure, which would not reduce our operating surplus, or a maintenance capital expenditure, which would reduce our operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner, the amount of adjusted operating surplus generated in any given period and the ability of subordinated units to convert into common units; · our general partner will determine which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us; · our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate expiration of the subordination period; · our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $30.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to our general partner in respect of the incentive distribution rights; · our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; · our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; · our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of our common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than 80.0% of our outstanding common units; · our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including (i) the right of first offer granted to us by JP Development and ArcLight Fund V and (ii) the performance of one of the truck transportation agreements in our crude oil gathering and transportation business, each as described in greater detail in “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions”; · our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and · our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, which we refer to as our conflicts committee, or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors and owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity 33 Table of Contents for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. Affiliates of our general partner, including Lonestar, JP Development and ArcLight, may compete with us, and neither our general partner nor its affiliates have any obligation to present business opportunities to us. Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement will prohibit affiliates of our general partner, including Lonestar, JP Development and ArcLight, from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. For example, ArcLight Fund V is the majority owner of the general partner of another publicly traded master limited partnership in the midstream segment of the energy industry, which may compete with us in the future. In addition, Lonestar, JP Development, ArcLight and other affiliates of our general partner may acquire, construct or dispose of midstream assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets, subject to the right of first offer that JP Development and ArcLight Fund V, have granted us. As a result, competition from affiliates of our general partner, including Lonestar, JP Development LP and ArcLight, could materially adversely impact our results of operations and distributable cash flow. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders. As a result, we expect to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Therefore, to the extent we are unable to finance our growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we will distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our revolving credit facility on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units as to distribution or liquidation, and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such additional units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may reduce the amount of distributable cash flow available to our unitholders. Other than the requirement in our partnership agreement to distribute all of our available cash each quarter, we have no legal obligation to make quarterly cash distributions, and our general partner has considerable discretion to establish cash reserves that would reduce the amount of available cash we distribute to unitholders. Generally, our available cash is comprised of cash on hand at the end of a quarter plus cash on hand resulting from any working capital borrowings made after the end of the quarter less cash reserves established by our general partner. Our partnership agreement permits our general partner to establish cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business (including reserves for our future capital expenditures and anticipated future debt service requirements), to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to unitholders. As a result, even when there is no change in the amount of distributable cash flow that we generate, our general partner has considerable discretion to establish cash reserves, which would result in a reduction in the amount of available cash we distribute to unitholders. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders at our minimum quarterly distribution rate or at any other rate, and we have no legal obligation to do so. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders. This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. By purchasing a common unit, a 34 Table of Contents unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement provides that: · whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity; · our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith; · our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, engaged in intentional fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and · our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under our partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is approved in accordance with, or otherwise meets the standards set forth in, our partnership agreement. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, our partnership agreement provides that any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith, and that our conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner are entitled to a presumption that they acted in good faith. In any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any unitholder or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. If you are not both a citizenship eligible holder and a rate eligible holder, your common units may be subject to redemption. In the future, we may acquire or construct assets that are subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”), and we may enter into leases with, or obtain permits or other authorizations from, the federal government that place citizenship requirements on our investors. In order to avoid (i) any material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates that can be charged to customers by our subsidiaries on any assets that are subject to rate regulation by FERC or analogous regulatory body and (ii) any substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property, including any governmental permit, endorsement or other authorization, in which we have an interest, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common units. Citizenship eligible holders are individuals or entities whose nationality, citizenship or other related status does not create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property, including any governmental permit, endorsement or authorization, in which we have an interest, and will generally include individuals and entities who are United States citizens. Rate eligible holders are individuals or entities subject to United States federal income taxation on the income generated by us or entities not subject to United States federal income taxation on the income generated by us, so long as all of the entity’s owners are subject to such taxation. If you are not a person who meets the requirements to be a citizenship eligible holder and a rate eligible holder, you run the risk of having your units redeemed by us at the market price as of the date three days before the date the notice of redemption is mailed. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. In addition, if you are not a person who meets the requirements to be a citizenship eligible holder, you will not be entitled to voting rights. 35 Table of Contents Reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce our distributable cash flow. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner. Prior to making any distribution on our common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including Lonestar, for expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Under our partnership agreement, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for certain expenses incurred on our behalf, including, among other items, compensation expense for all employees required to manage and operate our business. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. The expenses for which we are required to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates are not subject to any caps or other limits. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of available cash to pay cash distributions to our common unitholders. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner and will have no right to elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by the members of our general partner, which are controlled by members of our management and by Lonestar. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units will trade could be reduced because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting our unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of our management. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent. Our unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent our general partner’s removal. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding common units and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. Our general partner and its affiliates own 56.1% of our common units and subordinated units. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and common units and subordinated units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units, and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. “Cause” is narrowly defined under our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our general partner because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with our general partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20.0% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its non-economic general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of our general partner’s members to transfer their membership interests in our general partner to a third party. The new members of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers of our general partner. 36 Table of Contents Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its non-economic general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its incentive distribution rights. For example, a transfer of incentive distribution rights by our general partner could reduce the likelihood of Lonestar or its affiliates, including JP Development, selling or contributing midstream assets to us, as Lonestar and its affiliates would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such limited partner interests. Further, neither our partnership agreement nor our revolving credit facility prohibits the issuance of equity securities that may effectively rank senior to our common units as to distributions or liquidations. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: · our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the amount of distributable cash flow available for distribution on each unit may decrease; · because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; · the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and · the market price of our common units may decline. Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to make cash distributions, even where the purpose or effect of the borrowing benefits our general partner or its affiliates. In some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds under our revolving credit facility, from Lonestar or its affiliates or otherwise from third parties in order to permit the payment of cash distributions. These borrowings are permitted even if the purpose and effect of the borrowing is to enable us to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to hasten the expiration of the subordination period. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80.0% of our common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. Our general partner and its affiliates own approximately 22.2% of our common units. At the end of the subordination period (which could occur as early as September 30, 2015), assuming no additional issuances of common units (other than upon the conversion of the subordinated units), our general partner and its affiliates will own approximately 56.1% of our common units. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made non-recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some jurisdictions. You could be liable for our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that: · we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or 37 Table of Contents · your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (the “Delaware Act”), we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received an impermissible distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the transferee at the time of the transfer and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. The market price of our common units may fluctuate significantly and, due to limited daily trading volumes, an investor could lose all or part of its investment in us. There were 13,750,000 publicly traded common units as of March 2, 2015. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates own 56.1% of our common units and subordinated units. An investor may not be able to resell its common units at or above its acquisition price. Additionally, a lack of liquidity may result in wide bid-ask spreads, contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of the common units and limit the number of investors who are able to buy the common units. The market price of our common units may decline and be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · our quarterly distributions; · our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; · the loss of a large customer; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; · general economic conditions; · the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units or changes in financial estimates by analysts; · future sales of our common units; and · other factors described in these Risk Factors. Our general partner, or any transferee holding incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights without the approval of our conflicts committee or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. Our general partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received distributions on its incentive distribution rights at the highest level to which it is entitled (50.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will be equal to that number of common units that 38 Table of Contents would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Additionally, our general partner has the right to transfer all or any portion of our incentive distribution rights at any time, and such transferee will have the same rights as our general partner relative to resetting target distributions if our general partner concurs that the tests for resetting target distributions have been fulfilled. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. Because we are a publicly traded partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner’s board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly traded partnership. We have limited history operating as a publicly traded partnership. As a publicly traded partnership, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley of 2002 and related rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange have required changes in the corporate governance practices of publicly traded companies. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a publicly traded partnership, we are required to have at least three independent directors, create an audit committee and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, including the preparation of reports on internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our publicly traded partnership reporting requirements. We also expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for our general partner to obtain director and officer liability insurance and to possibly result in our general partner having to accept reduced policy limits and coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for our general partner to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on its board of directors or as executive officers. Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, or if we were otherwise subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation, then our distributable cash flow to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS on this matter. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35.0%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to you. In addition, changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash flow available for distribution to you. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax 39 Table of Contents purposes or otherwise subjected to a material amount of entity-level taxation, there would be a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including the elimination of the qualifying income exception upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be retroactively applied and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. However, it is possible that a change in law could affect us, and any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Our unitholders’ share of our income is taxable to them for federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because a unitholder is treated as a partner to whom we allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder’s allocable share of our taxable income is taxable to it, which may require the payment of federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on its share of our taxable income even if it receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash flow available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS’s positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders (including holders of our subordinated units) because the costs will reduce our distributable cash flow. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell common units, they will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units a unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if it sells such common units at a price greater than its tax basis in those common units, even if the price received is less than its original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, a unitholder that sells common units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-United States persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. An investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-United States persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all 40 Table of Contents of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, is unrelated business taxable income and is taxable to them. Distributions to non-United States persons are reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-United States persons are required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-United States person, you should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued proposed regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, he may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner (as the holder of our incentive distribution rights) and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner (as the holder of our incentive distribution rights) and our unitholders, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner (as the holder of our incentive distribution rights) and certain of our unitholders. 41 Table of Contents A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50.0% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50.0% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50.0% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections, including a new election under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code, and we could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief program whereby, if a publicly traded partnership that technically terminated requests publicly traded partnership technical termination relief and such relief is granted by the IRS, among other things, the partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years. As a result of investing in our common units, you may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We conduct business in every state in the continental United States. Many of these states currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 