D. Risk Factors — Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could adversely affect us.” We may lose the ability to use and enjoy assets held by Lanting Huitong and its subsidiary or assets held by Lanting Gaochuang that are important to the operations of our business if such entity goes bankrupt or becomes subject to a dissolution or liquidation proceeding. Lanting Huitong and its subsidiary, Shanghai Ouku, manage www.ouku.com and other websites targeting consumers in China. Lanting Gaochuang performs certain research and development functions. Both hold certain assets and perform certain functions that are important to the operations of our business. If Lanting Huitong, Shanghai Ouku or Lanting Gaochuang goes bankrupt and all or part of their assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Lanting Huitong, Shanghai Ouku or Lanting Gaochuang undergoes a voluntary or involuntary dissolution or liquidation proceeding, third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business in the PRC, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Lanting Huitong, Shanghai Ouku or Lanting Gaochuang fail to obtain and maintain the requisite assets, licenses and approvals required under the complex regulatory environment for Internet-based businesses in China, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The Internet industry in China is highly regulated by the PRC government and numerous regulatory authorities of the central PRC government are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the Internet industry. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — PRC Regulation”. Lanting Huitong and Shanghai Ouku, due to their operation of our domestic websites, are required to obtain and maintain certain assets relevant to their business as well as applicable licenses and approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide their current services. These assets and licenses are essential to our business operations in China and are generally subject to annual review by the relevant governmental authorities. Furthermore, Lanting Huitong, Shanghai Ouku or Lanting Gaochuang may be required to obtain additional licenses other than those currently in place. If they fail to obtain or maintain any of the requisite assets, licenses or approvals, their continued business operations in the Internet industry may subject them to various penalties, such as confiscation of illegal net revenues, fines and the discontinuation or restriction of their operations. Any such disruption in the business operations of Lanting Huitong, Shanghai Ouku or Lanting Gaochuang may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Contractual arrangements with Lanting Huitong or Lanting Gaochuang may result in adverse tax consequences. Under PRC laws and regulations, an arrangement or transaction among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities within ten years after the taxable year when the arrangement or transaction takes place. If this occurs, the PRC tax authorities could request that Lanting Huitong or Lanting Gaochuang adjust their taxable income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment for PRC tax purposes if contractual arrangements among related parties do not represent arm’s length prices. Such a pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by increasing Lanting Huitong or Lanting Gaochuang’s tax expenses without reducing our tax expenses, which could subject Lanting Huitong or Lanting Gaochuang to late payment fees and other penalties for underpayment of taxes. As a result, our contractual arrangements with Lanting Huitong or Lanting Gaochuang may result in adverse tax consequences to us. In 2013, Lanting Huitong generated a net income of $0.4 million from the contractual arrangements with our PRC subsidiary but still had suffered accumulated loss since its inception and thus it had not paid any PRC income tax other than a one-off payment on account. If the PRC tax authorities decide to make transfer pricing adjustments on Lanting Huitong’s net income in the future, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, if Lanting Huitong or Lanting Gaochuang generate net income from transactions with our PRC subsidiary under the contractual arrangements in the future and the PRC tax authorities decide to make transfer pricing adjustments on their net incomes, our consolidated net income may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Doing Business in China We may be adversely affected by the uncertainties and changes in the PRC regulations and policies of cross- border business activities. We are a China-based global online retailer. The PRC government extensively regulates the Internet industry and cross-border business activities. While the PRC government has been encouraging the export industry, such policy may change in the future. Currently laws and regulations relating to online retail, including export online retail, are still evolving and the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations are subject to significant uncertainties. As a result, in certain circumstances, it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to PRC regulation of export online retail include, but are not limited to: · how our online retail activities are subject to the laws and regulations pertaining to traditional cross-border transactions or international trade, especially those related to customs declarations, statutory inspections, couriers and commodities export payments; and · new regulations, or new interpretations of existing regulations, requiring additional licenses, declarations or inspections for our products. The varying interpretations and applications of existing PRC laws, regulations and policies, along with possible new laws, regulations or policies relating to cross-border online retail, create substantial uncertainty regarding the licenses, customs declarations and inspections that may be required for our products. We cannot guarantee that all of the licenses, customs clearances and/or approvals for commodity inspections currently required, or in the future may be required, will be obtained. 21 Table of Contents For example, we work with third-party couriers to ship and export merchandise purchased by our customers around the world as articles or product samples on a parcel-by-parcel basis in accordance with procedures applicable to articles or product samples. This differs from the customs declaration, clearance and inspection procedures for traditional large-scale export shipments. Despite that the current PRC regulatory regime as to customs declaration and inspection have been formulated, interpreted and enforced primarily with the intention, and based on the experiences of, regulating traditional large-scale exports, such regulatory regime could technically be interpreted as applicable to the shipment of merchandise on a parcel-by-parcel basis. If the relevant PRC governmental authorities determine that we or our sourcing agents, suppliers or third-party couriers do not comply with the applicable laws and regulations, they could: · require us, or our sourcing agents, suppliers or third-party couriers, to restructure business operations, including a possible change to our current method and manner of contracting with such sourcing agents, suppliers or third-party couriers, or require us or third-party couriers to go through customs declaration, clearance and inspection procedures for the merchandise sold to our customer under our business arrangements in accordance with procedures for goods rather than for articles; · impose fines or confiscate income from our PRC subsidiary or the operations of the affiliates of our sourcing agents, suppliers or third-party couriers that are subject to PRC jurisdiction; and · impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us. Substantial uncertainties and restrictions exist with respect to the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations relating to online commerce and the distribution of Internet content in China. If the PRC government finds that the structure we have adopted for our business operations does not comply with PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties, including the shutting down of our websites. Foreign ownership of Internet-based businesses is subject to significant restrictions under current PRC laws and regulations. The PRC government regulates Internet access, the distribution of online information and the conduct of online commerce through strict business licensing requirements and other regulations. These laws and regulations also include limitations on foreign ownership in PRC companies that provide Internet content distribution services. Specifically, foreign investors are not allowed to own more than 50% of the equity interests in any entity conducting commercial Internet information services. We are a Cayman Islands company and our PRC subsidiary, Lanting Jishi, is considered a wholly foreign-owned enterprise. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we conduct the operation of our domestic websites through a series of contractual arrangements among our PRC subsidiary, Lanting Jishi, our VIE, Lanting Huitong and the shareholders of Lanting Huitong. Lanting Huitong and Shanghai Ouku hold the licenses or have completed the filings that are essential to the operations of our business in China. For a detailed description of these licenses and permits, see “Regulations.” We conduct certain research and development functions through Lanting Gaochuang, which we control through similar contractual arrangements. As a result of these contractual arrangements, we exert control over our VIEs and consolidate their operating results in our financial statements under U.S. GAAP. For a detailed description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — C. Organizational Structure.” In the opinion of our PRC counsel, TransAsia Lawyers, our current ownership structure, the ownership structure of our PRC subsidiary, Lanting Jishi and our VIEs, the contractual arrangements among Lanting Jishi, our VIEs and the shareholders of our VIEs and our business operations, as described in this annual report, are in compliance with existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations, especially with regards to Lanting Huitong and Shanghai Ouku as operators of our domestic websites. The M&A Rules, the recently promulgated related regulations under the M&A Rules and, in particular, the national security review rules issued by the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, on August 25, 2011 and effective as of September 1, 2011 create additional uncertainties for our business. The national security review rules broadens the reach of MOFCOM in the context of a merger or acquisition by a foreign investor of a domestic entity involved in an industry related to national security, of attempting to bypass national security review of the transaction by structuring it through a proxy or contractual control arrangement. Accordingly, PRC government authorities may ultimately take a view contrary to the opinion of our PRC counsel. 22 Table of Contents Regulation and censorship of information distribution over the Internet in China may adversely affect our business and we may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to our websites. China has enacted laws and regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of products, services, news, information, audio-video programs and other content through the Internet. In the past, the PRC government has prohibited the distribution of information through the Internet that it deems to be in violation of PRC laws and regulations. If any of our Internet content were deemed by the PRC government to violate any content restrictions, we would not be able to continue to display such content and could become subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of required licenses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to potential liability for any unlawful actions of our consumers or users of our websites or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability to us and if we are found to be liable, we may be prevented from operating our websites in China, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in China’s political, economic or social conditions or government policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Most of our suppliers and some of our business operations are located in China. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be influenced by political, economic and social conditions in China generally and by continued economic growth in China as a whole. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industry policies. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency- denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. From 2003 to mid-2008, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as increasing the deposit reserve ratio requirements for banks and imposing commercial bank lending guidelines, designed to slow the growth of the PRC economy. In response to the global financial crisis, in 2008, the PRC government began instituting policies aimed at expanding credit and stimulating the economy, including an announced RMB4.0 trillion stimulus spending program. More recently, as the PRC economy has shown signs of recovering quickly from the global financial crisis, the PRC government has again begun implementing policies aimed at slowing the PRC economy, including raising interest rates and tightening fiscal expenditures. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth over the past decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. In addition, in the past the PRC government has implemented certain measures, including interest rate increases, to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may increase the costs of business activities for us and our suppliers in China and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, China’s social and political conditions are not as stable as those of the United States and other developed countries. Any sudden changes in China’s political system, the occurrence of widespread social unrest, or a significant deterioration in its relations with its neighbors could negatively affect the Chinese economy and our business. 23 Table of Contents Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could adversely affect us. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Unlike under common law systems, decided legal cases have little value as precedents in subsequent legal proceedings. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general and forms of foreign investment (including in respect of wholly foreign owned enterprises) in particular. These laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and are often changing, and their interpretation and enforcement depend to a large extent on relevant government policy and involve significant uncertainties that could limit the reliability of the legal protections available to us. We cannot predict the effects of future developments in government policy or the PRC legal system in general. We may be required in the future to procure additional permits, authorizations and approvals for our existing and future operations, which may not be obtainable in a timely fashion or at all, or may involve substantial costs and unforeseen risks. An inability to obtain, or the incurrence of substantial costs in obtaining, such permits, authorizations and approvals may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the complexity and uncertainties of and changes in PRC regulation of Internet business and related companies. The PRC government extensively regulates the Internet industry, including with respect to foreign ownership of and licensing and permit requirements pertaining to companies in the Internet industry. These Internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainties. As a result, in certain circumstances, it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to PRC regulation of Internet businesses include, but are not limited to: · We have only contractual control over our websites that target consumers in China as compared to legal title over our websites that target consumers outside of China. Due to restrictions on foreign investment in businesses providing value-added telecommunication services in China, including Internet content provision services, we do not own www.ouku.com, www.kuailebox.com and other affiliated websites which target consumers in China. This may significantly disrupt our business, subject us to sanctions, compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. · There are uncertainties relating to the regulation of Internet businesses in China, including evolving licensing practices. This means that permits, licenses or operations at some of our companies may be subject to challenge, or we may fail to obtain permits or licenses that may be deemed necessary for our operations, or we may not be able to obtain or renew certain permits or licenses. For example, according to the Administrative Measures on Internet Electronic Messaging Services, or the BBS Measures, BBS services, which include electronic bulletin boards, electronic forums, message boards and chat rooms, are subject to specific approvals (if the operators provide commercial Internet information services) or filings (if the operators provide non-commercial Internet information services). Shanghai Ouku has not obtained specific filings for BBS services on its websites and governmental authorities may require it to discontinue the BBS services and to rectify the non-compliance. If Shanghai Ouku fails to rectify the non-compliance as required by the governmental authorities, its websites may be shut down. · The evolving PRC regulatory system for the Internet industry may lead to the establishment of new regulatory agencies. For example, in May 2011, the State Council announced the establishment of a new department, the State Internet Information Office (with the involvement of the SCIO, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology and the Ministry of Public Security). The primary role of this new agency is to facilitate policy-making and legislative development in this field to direct and coordinate with the relevant departments in connection with online content administration and to deal with cross-ministry regulatory matters in relation to the Internet industry. Further, new laws, regulations or policies may be promulgated or announced that will regulate Internet activities, including the online video and online advertising businesses. If these new laws, regulations or policies are promulgated, additional licenses may be required for our operations. If our operations do not comply with these new regulations after they become effective, or if we fail to obtain any licenses required under these new laws and regulations, we could be subject to penalties. 24 Table of Contents The interpretation and application of existing PRC laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies relating to the Internet industry have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in and the businesses and activities of, Internet businesses in China, including our business. We cannot assure you that we have obtained all the permits or licenses required for conducting our business in China or will be able to maintain our existing licenses or obtain any new licenses required under any new laws or regulations. There are also risks that we may be found to violate the existing or future laws and regulations given the uncertainty and complexity of China’s regulation of Internet business. Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars while certain expenses are denominated in Renminbi. As a result, there are certain mismatches between our revenues in U.S. dollars and costs denominated in Renminbi. In addition, most of our suppliers are based in China and their operating costs are denominated in Renminbi. If the Renminbi appreciates relative to the U.S. dollar, the cost of our products will become more expensive in U.S. dollar terms, the currency in which we price our products. We have no hedges against currency risk. Consequently, any increase in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may reduce our margins, reduce our competiveness against retailers who source their products from suppliers with costs denominated in U.S. dollars or other currencies or render us unable to meet our costs. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions and the foreign exchange policy adopted by the PRC government. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the current policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. Following the removal of the U.S. dollar peg, the Renminbi appreciated more than 20% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. During the period between July 2008 and June 2010, the Renminbi has traded stably within a narrow range against the U.S. dollar. Since June 2010, the Renminbi has started to slowly appreciate further against the U.S. dollar, though there have been periods when the U.S. dollar has appreciated against the Renminbi as well. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. See “Exchange Rate Information.” There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against foreign currencies. Any significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position and the amount of and any dividends we may pay on the ADSs in U.S. dollars. Any fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar could also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC domestic residents and registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or the plan participants to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, issued a public notice in October 2005 requiring PRC domestic residents to register with the local SAFE branches before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC domestic residents who are shareholders of offshore special purpose companies and have completed round trip investments but did not make foreign exchange registrations for overseas investments before November 1, 2005 were retroactively required to register with the local SAFE branches before March 31, 2006. PRC resident shareholders are also required to amend their registrations with local SAFE branches in certain circumstances. Since May 2007, SAFE has issued a series of guidance to its local branches to further clarify the SAFE registration process. 25 Table of Contents We have requested PRC residents that, to our knowledge, hold direct or indirect interest in our company to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under the SAFE regulations. Mr. Quji (Alan) Guo, Mr. Xin (Kevin) Wen, Mr. Liang Zhang and Mr. Jun Liu, all of whom are PRC domestic residents and hold interests in our company, have registered with the Shenzhen SAFE branch and are in the process of updating their registrations to reflect the changes to their interests after our initial public offering. We may not be fully informed of the identities of all of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents, we do not have control over our beneficial owners and we cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders and beneficial owners to comply with the registration procedures set forth above may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities or limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign-exchange-denominated loans for our company. As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval processes with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC company, we or the owners of such company will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to acquire PRC companies and could adversely affect our business and prospects. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, setting forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by PRC individuals under either the current account or the capital account. In January 2007, the SAFE issued implementing rules for the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions, such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. On March 28, 2007, the SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. In February 2012, the SAFE promulgated the Notice on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Matters for Domestic Individuals Participating in the Stock Incentive Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Notice. This Stock Option Notice replaced the previous Stock Option Rules. The Stock Option Notice simplifies the requirements and procedures for the registration of stock incentive plan participants, especially with respect to the required application documents and the absence of strict requirements on offshore and onshore custodian banks that were stipulated in the Stock Option Rules. Under the Stock Option Notice, PRC resident individuals who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures. As a public company listed in the United States, we and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options are subject to the Stock Option Notice. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — PRC Regulation — Regulations on Employee Stock Option Plans.” PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of our initial public offering to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiary. In utilizing the proceeds of our initial public offering, as an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiary, we may make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiary. Any loans to our PRC subsidiary, which is a foreign-invested enterprise, cannot exceed statutory limits, being the difference between the registered capital and the investment amount of the PRC subsidiary as approved by the MOFCOM or its local branches and must be approved by and registered with the SAFE or its local branches. In addition, our PRC subsidiary is required to pay withholding tax at the rate of 10% (or a maximum of 7% if the interest is paid to a Hong Kong resident) on our behalf on any interest paid under such shareholder loan. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — PRC Regulation — Regulations Relating to Foreign Currency Exchange—Foreign Exchange Relating to Foreign Invested Enterprises.” 26 Table of Contents We may also decide to finance our PRC subsidiary by means of capital contributions. According to the relevant PRC regulations on foreign-invested enterprises in China, depending on the amount of total investment and the nature of the business conducted by the relevant subsidiary, capital contributions to foreign-invested enterprises in China are subject to approval by the MOFCOM or its local branches. We may not obtain these government approvals or registrations on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans and capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiary. If we fail to receive such approvals or registrations, our ability to use the proceeds of our initial public offering and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. On August 29, 2008, the SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 142, regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested enterprise of foreign currency registered capital into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. SAFE Circular 142 provides that the Renminbi capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and unless otherwise provided by law, such Renminbi capital may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, the SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the Renminbi capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be altered without the SAFE’s approval and such Renminbi capital may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of SAFE Circular 142 could result in severe monetary or other penalties. We expect that if we convert the net proceeds we receive from our initial public offering into Renminbi, our use of Renminbi funds will be for purposes within the approved business scope of our PRC subsidiary in compliance with SAFE Circular 142. However, we may not be able to use such Renminbi funds to make equity investments in the PRC through our PRC subsidiary. Furthermore, the SAFE promulgated the Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Exchange Business, or Circular 59, on November 19, 2010, which requires the government to closely examine the authenticity of settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings and the net proceeds to be settled in the manner described in the offering documents. Circular 142 and Circular 59 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from our initial public offering to Lanting Jishi and our VIEs and convert such net proceeds into Renminbi, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business in the PRC. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the New EIT Law and be subject to PRC taxation on our income. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC, or the New EIT Law, and its implementation rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its global income. The implementation rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” The State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore-incorporated enterprise is located in China. Further to Circular 82, on July 27, 2011, the SAT issued the Administrative Measures of Enterprise Income Tax of Chinese- controlled Offshore Incorporated Resident Enterprises (Trial), or Bulletin No. 45, which took effect on September 1, 2011, to provide more guidance on the implementation of Circular 82. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — PRC Regulation — Regulations on Tax — PRC Enterprise Income Tax.” 27 Table of Contents According to Circular 82, a Chinese-controlled offshore-incorporated enterprise will be regarded as a PRC tax resident by virtue of having a “de facto management body” in China and will be subject to PRC enterprise income tax on its worldwide income only if all of the following conditions set forth in Circular 82 are met: (i) the primary location of the day-to-day operational management is in the PRC; (ii) decisions relating to the enterprise’s financial and human resource matters are made or are subject to approval by organizations or personnel in the PRC; (iii) the enterprise’s primary assets, accounting books and records, company seals and board and shareholder resolutions are located or maintained in the PRC; and (iv) at least 50% of voting board members or senior executives habitually reside in the PRC. In addition, Bulletin No. 45 provides clarification on the resident status determination, post-determination administration and competent tax authorities. It also specifies that when provided with a copy of PRC resident determination certificate from a resident Chinese-controlled offshore- incorporated enterprise, the payer should not withhold 10% income tax when paying certain Chinese- sourced income such as dividends, interest and royalties to the PRC-controlled offshore-incorporated enterprise. Although both the circular and the bulletin only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises and not those by PRC individuals, the determination criteria set forth in the circular and administration clarification made in the bulletin may reflect the SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax residency status of offshore enterprises and the administration measures should be implemented, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC individuals. Although we do not believe that our legal entities organized outside of the PRC constitute PRC resident enterprises or meet all of the conditions above, it is possible that the PRC tax authorities could reach a different conclusion. In such case, we may be considered a resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our global income. If we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiary, a 25% enterprise income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Pursuant to the New EIT Law and its implementation rules, dividends generated after January 1, 2008 and payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors, which are non-PRC tax resident enterprises without an establishment in China, or whose income has no connection with their institutions and establishments inside China, are subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and we plan to conduct substantially all of our business in China through Lanting Jishi, which is 100% owned by Light In the Box Limited, our wholly owned subsidiary located in Hong Kong. According to the Mainland and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Arrangements on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income, or the Double Taxation Avoidance Arrangement, dividends that Light In The Box Limited receives from Lanting Jishi may be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 5%, provided that: (a) Light In The Box Limited is determined by the relevant PRC tax authorities to be a “non-resident enterprise” under the New EIT Law; (b) Light In The Box Limited is the beneficial owner of the PRC sourced income; (c) Light In The Box Limited holds at least 25% of the equity interest of Lanting Jishi and (d) all other conditions and requirements under the Double Tax Avoidance Arrangement shall be satisfied. Light In The Box Limited has not obtained the approval for a withholding tax rate of 5% from the local tax authority and does not plan to obtain such approval in the near future, as Lanting Jishi has not paid dividends in the past and does not plan to pay dividends in the future as it may continue to incur losses. In addition, as described above, our company or our Hong Kong subsidiary may be considered a PRC resident enterprise for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, in which case dividends received by it, as the case may be, from our PRC subsidiary would be exempt from the PRC withholding tax because such income is exempt under the New EIT Law for a PRC resident enterprise recipient. As uncertainties remain regarding the interpretation and implementation of the New EIT Law and its implementation rules, we cannot assure you that if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders would not be subject to any PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. Similarly, any gain recognized by such non-PRC shareholders or ADS holders on the sale of shares or ADSs, as applicable, may also be subject to PRC withholding tax. Furthermore, if we are considered a PRC resident enterprise and the competent PRC tax authorities consider dividends we pay with respect to our shares or ADSs and the gains realized from the transfer of our shares or ADSs to be income derived from sources within the PRC, such dividends and gains earned by non-resident individuals may be subject to PRC individual income tax at a rate of 20%, unless any such non-resident individuals’ jurisdiction has a tax treaty with China that provides for a preferential tax rate or a tax exemption. It is also unclear whether, if we are considered a PRC resident enterprise, holders of our shares or ADSs would be able to claim the benefit of income tax treaties or agreements entered into between China and other countries or areas. If we are required under PRC law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders, or the PRC authorities tax gain recognized by such non-PRC shareholders or ADS holders, such investors’ investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents The labor contract law and its implementation regulations may increase our operating expenses and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As the PRC Labor Contract Law, or Labor Contract Law, and the Implementation Regulation for the PRC Labor Contract Law, or Implementation Regulation, have been enforced for only a relatively short period of time, substantial uncertainty remains as to its potential impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — PRC Regulation — Labor Laws and Social Insurance.” The implementation of the Labor Contract Law and the Implementation Regulation may increase our operating expenses, in particular our human resources costs and our administrative expenses. In addition, as the interpretation and implementation of these regulations are still evolving, we cannot assure you that our employment practices will at all times be deemed to be in full compliance with the law. In the event that we decide to significantly modify our employment or labor policy or practice, or reduce the number of our sales professionals, the labor contract law may limit our ability to effectuate the modifications or changes in the manner that we believe to be most cost-efficient or otherwise desirable, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are subject to severe penalties or incur significant liabilities in connection with labor disputes or investigations, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. In the event that we decide to significantly modify our employment or labor policy or practice, or reduce the number of our sales professionals, the labor contract law may limit our ability to effectuate the modifications or changes in the manner that we believe to be most cost-efficient or otherwise desirable, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. PRC labor-related laws and individual income tax obligations expose us to potential penalty risks. Companies operating in China are generally required to contribute to the mandatory social insurance and housing funds. Lanting Jishi, Lanting Huitong and Shanghai Ouku have not fully contributed to the employee benefit plans as required by applicable PRC regulations. While we believe we have made adequate provisions for any payments due on our audited consolidated financial statements, our prior failure to make payments may constitute a violation of the applicable PRC regulations and, as of December 31, 2013, we were potentially subject to late fees, fines and penalties for up to a maximum of $19.0 million related to employee benefit plans. In addition, we have previously not withheld appropriate amounts of individual income taxes as required by applicable PRC regulations. However, such amounts were substantially paid by us on a voluntary basis in March 2013 to the relevant tax authority. Although as of the date of this annual report, no action has been initiated by the relevant authorities against us, future fines or levies may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to obtain prior approval required under the M&A Rules and/or any other regulations promulgated by relevant PRC regulatory agencies in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as the trading price of the ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the Ministry of Commerce, the State- Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the SAT, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and the SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, which came into effect on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009. The M&A Rules, among other things, include provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle formed for the purpose of an overseas listing of a PRC company obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such special purpose vehicle’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures regarding its approval of overseas listings by special purpose vehicles. However, substantial uncertainty remains regarding the scope and applicability of the M&A Rules to offshore special purpose vehicles. 29 Table of Contents The application of the M&A Rules with respect to our initial public offering and our corporate structure established under contractual arrangements remains unclear. Our PRC counsel, TransAsia Lawyers, has advised us that we are not required to apply to the relevant PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC and the Ministry of Commerce, for approval of our initial public offering or our current corporate structure because: · the CSRC currently has not issued any definitive rule or interpretation concerning whether international public offerings like ours under our prospectus are subject to this regulation; · we established our PRC subsidiary by means of direct investment rather than by merger or acquisition of the equity or assets of PRC domestic companies; and · no provision in this regulation clearly classified contractual arrangements as a type of transaction subject to its regulation. However, we cannot assure you that relevant PRC government agencies, including the CSRC, would reach the same conclusion as our PRC counsel. If prior approval is required but not obtained, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in China, limit our operating privileges in China, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our initial public offering into China or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the trading price of the ADSs. In addition, if the CSRC or other regulatory agencies later promulgate new rules or explanations requiring that we obtain their approvals for our initial public offering, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of such approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and/or negative publicity regarding such approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of the ADSs. We may rely on dividends and other cash distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries to fund future cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we may rely on dividends and cash distributed by our Hong Kong subsidiary and may, in the future, rely on dividends and cash distributed by our PRC subsidiary through our Hong Kong subsidiary for our cash requirements. However, current PRC regulations permit our PRC subsidiary to pay dividends only out of its accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, our PRC subsidiary is required to set aside at least 10% of its accumulated after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of the respective subsidiary’s registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our PRC subsidiary incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us or our Hong Kong subsidiary. If we or our Hong Kong subsidiary require dividends and cash contributions from our PRC subsidiary in the future, any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiary to distribute dividends or other payments to us or our Hong Kong subsidiary could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in this annual report, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. 30 Table of Contents Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditors’ audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors are deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Proceedings instituted by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the Chinese affiliates of the “big four” accounting firms (including our auditors) and also against BDO China Dahua CPA Co., Ltd. (the former BDO affiliate in China). The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ inability to produce documents, including audit work papers, in response to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as the auditors located in the PRC are not in a position lawfully to produce documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to our auditors or to us, but affect equally all audit firms based in China and all China-based companies with securities listed in the United States. In January 2014, the administrative judge reached an initial decision that the “big four “ accounting firms should be barred from practicing before the SEC for six months. However, it is currently impossible to determine the ultimate outcome of this matter as the accounting firms have filed a petition for review of such initial decision and pending that review the effect of the initial decision is currently suspended. The SEC commissioners will review the initial decision, determine whether there has been any violation and, if so, determine the appropriate remedy to be placed on these audit firms. Once such an order was made, the audit firms would have a further right to appeal to the United States federal courts, and the effect of the order might be further stayed pending the outcome of that appeal. Depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding China-based, United States-listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. Risks Related to the ADS The market price for the ADSs has fluctuated and may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has fluctuated since we listed our ADSs. Since our ADSs became listed on the NYSE on June 6, 2013, the trading price of our ADSs have ranged from US$5.32 to US$23.38 per ADS, and the last reported trading price on April 25, 2014 was US$5.40 per ADS. In addition to the volatility in the price of the ADSs which could be caused by the materialization of any of the risks described in this section, the securities markets in the United States, China and elsewhere have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. 31 Table of Contents The securities of some China-based companies that have listed their securities in the United States have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings in recent years, including, in some cases, substantial declines in the trading prices of their securities. The trading performances of these companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors towards Chinese companies listed in the United States in general, which consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, any negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting, corporate structure or other matters of other Chinese companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards Chinese companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have engaged in any inappropriate activities. In particular, the global financial crisis and the ensuing economic recessions in many countries have contributed and may continue to contribute to extreme volatility in the global stock markets. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Volatility in our ADS price may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, most of whom have been granted options or other equity incentives. Our voting structure limits your ability to influence matters related to change of control and could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our common shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. We have one class of ordinary shares, and each holder of our ordinary shares is entitled to one vote per share. However, in matters related to change of control, pursuant to our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, certain founding shareholders, namely Wincore Holdings Limited, a British Virgin Islands company wholly owned by Mr. Quji (Alan) Guo, Vitz Holdings Limited, a British Virgin Islands company wholly owned by Mr. Xin (Kevin) Wen, and Clinet Investments Limited, a British Virgin Islands company wholly owned by Mr. Liang Zhang, are entitled to three votes per share in matters related to a change of control. As of April 15, 2014, each of Wincore Holdings Limited, Vitz Holdings Limited and Clinet Investments Limited held 9.6%, 6.1% and 4.4% of the shares of our company, respectively, entitling them to 20.6%, 13.0% and 9.4% of voting rights, respectively, and an aggregate of 43.0% of voting rights in such matters related to a change of control. This voting structure could limit your ability to influence matters related to change of control and could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that you or other ordinary shareholders may view as beneficial. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities or incurrence of additional indebtedness could result in additional dilution to our shareholders or increase our debt service obligations. Historically, we have relied principally on the issuance of our preferred shares, convertible notes and ADRs to fund our operations and capital expansion needs. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity, equity- linked or debt securities or enter into a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. It is uncertain whether financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Substantial future sales of the ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of the ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of the ADSs to decline. As of December 31, 2013 , we had 101,780,794 ordinary shares outstanding based on our register of members maintained by our Cayman Islands registrar, including 35,300,086 ordinary shares represented by ADSs. All our ordinary shares represented by ADSs were freely transferable by persons other than our “affiliates” without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act. The remaining ordinary shares will be available for sale subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. In addition, certain holders of our ordinary shares have the right to cause us to register the sale of those shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of the ADSs to decline. 32 Table of Contents You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in the deposit agreement, holders of the ADSs are not able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by the ADSs. You have a right to instruct the depositary how to exercise those voting rights. However, the depository or its nominee may not successfully comply with your instructions or intentions. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of the ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, operate all of our business from mainland China and Hong Kong and all of our officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and primarily conduct our operations through our subsidiaries in Hong Kong and mainland China and through our VIEs, Lanting Huitong and its subsidiary, Shanghai Ouku, and Lanting Gaochuang, in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an original action against us or against these individuals in a Cayman Islands or PRC court in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2013 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provide significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, your ability to protect your interests if you are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable you to sue in a United States federal court may be limited to direct shareholder lawsuits. 33 Table of Contents As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our ADSs less attractive to investors. We are a “foreign private issuer,” as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act, and are not required to comply with certain periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2012 for up to five fiscal years after the date of our initial public offering. Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to and report on the effectiveness of the internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. In addition, Section 107(b) of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 provides that an “emerging growth company” can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an “emerging growth company” can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to take advantage of the extended transition period. Although as of the date of this annual report, we have not delayed the adoption of any accounting standard, as a result of this election, our future financial statements may not be comparable to other public companies that comply with the public company effective dates for these new or revised accounting standards. We will cease to be an “emerging growth company” upon the earliest of: (i) the last day of the fiscal year during which we have gross revenues of $1 billion or more, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of our initial public offering, (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the previous three-year period, or (iv) when we become a “large accelerated filer,” as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act. We have incurred increased costs as a result of becoming a public company, and our compliance costs may continue to increase in the future . As a public company, we have incurred significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not have as a private company prior to our initial public offering. In addition, new rules and regulations relating to information disclosure, financial reporting and control and corporate governance, which could be adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange and other regulatory bodies and exchange entities from time to time, could result in a significant increase in legal, accounting and other compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly, which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have no present plan to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, and you may only rely on price appreciation of our ADSs for return on your investment. Since our inception, we have not declared or paid any dividends on our ordinary shares. Since we intend to retain most, if not all, of our available funds and any future earnings to operate and expand our business, we have no present plan to pay any dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. Therefore, your should not reply on an investment in our ADSs as a source for any future dividend income. 34 Table of Contents Any future determination to pay dividends will be made at the sole discretion of our board of directors and may be based on a number of factors, including our future operations and earnings, capital requirements and surplus, general financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant. If we pay any dividends, we will pay the ADS holders to the same extent as holders of our ordinary shares, subject to the terms of the deposit agreement, including the fees and expenses payable thereunder. See “Description of American Depositary Shares.” Accordingly, the return on your investment in our ADSs will likely depend entirely upon any future price appreciation of our ADSs. There is no guarantee that our ADSs will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased the ADSs. You may not realize a return on your investment in our ADSs and you may even lose your entire investment in our ADSs. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse United States tax consequences to United States investors. Based on the past and projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”) for 2013, and we do not expect to become one in the current year or the foreseeable future, although there can be no assurance in this regard. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, for any taxable year we will be classified as a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes if either (i) 75% or more of our gross income in that taxable year is passive income or (ii) the average percentage of our assets by value in that taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income (which includes cash) is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the quarterly market value of our ordinary shares and ADSs, which is subject to change. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations.” In addition, there is uncertainty as to the treatment of our corporate structure and ownership of our VIEs for United States federal income tax purposes. If it is determined that we do not own the stock of our VIEs for United States federal income tax purposes, we may be treated as a PFIC. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which you hold the ADSs or ordinary shares, such characterization could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to you if you are a United States Holder, as defined under “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations.” For example, if we are or become a PFIC, you may become subject to increased tax liabilities under United States federal income tax laws and regulations, and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations.” We cannot assure you that we were not a PFIC for 2013 or that we will not be a PFIC for 2014 or any future taxable year. Moreover, the determination of our PFIC status is based on an annual determination that cannot be made until the close of a taxable year, and involves extensive factual investigation, including ascertaining the fair market value of all of our assets on a quarterly basis and the character of each item of income we earn, as discussed under “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations-Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Our United States counsel expresses no opinion with respect to our PFIC status. Our fourth amended and restated memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our fourth amended and restated memorandum and articles of association contains provisions limiting the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, under our fourth amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, on a resolution relating to (a) a merger, amalgamation, consolidation or similar transaction involving our company, (b) the filing of a petition for a scheme of arrangement involving our company, or the giving of consent to such a filing or the co-operation by our company in the making of such filing, and (c) a sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of our company, Wincore Holdings Limited, a British Virgin Islands company wholly owned by Mr. Quji (Alan) Guo, Vitz Holdings Limited, a British Virgin Islands company wholly owned by Mr. Xin (Kevin) Wen, and Clinet Investments Limited, a British Virgin Islands company wholly owned by Mr. Liang Zhang, are entitled to three votes per share held by them, and the remaining shareholders are entitled to one vote per share held. 35 Table of Contents Furthermore, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADSs or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of the ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. 36 Table of Contents 