Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks, which we believe are the principal risks that we face and of which we are currently aware, and all of the other information in this report. Should any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our busines’s, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Page | 19 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business We face the following risks in connection with the general conditions and trends of the industry in which we operate: We are dependent on the U.S. Government for a substantial portion of our revenue and the outlook for U.S. Government spending is uncertain. Approximately 87% of our 2011 revenues were derived from products and services ultimately sold to the U.S. Government, including the Department of Defense (DoD). All of these sales are directly affected by, among other things, the annual federal budget, appropriations made to defense programs, and spending levels. DoD budget and priorities impacting the programs can be affected by external threats to our national security, funding for ongoing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, future priorities of the current presidential administration, and the overall health of the U.S. and world economies. Our future results may be directly impacted by budgetary actions by the Obama Administration and Congress since they have direct bearing on our ability to receive awards under new and on-going defense programs, as well as other U.S. Government programs. Our ability to develop and market products and services under these programs, as well as the variability of timing and size of certain key orders will also be affected. Since many of our government contracts are fixed-price, increased costs which cannot be justified as an increase to the contract value exposes the risk of reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business. In addition, numerous contracts are subject to security and facility clearances, as well as export licenses, which, if withdrawn, restricted or made unavailable, would adversely affect our business. Changes in U.S. Government contracting regulations, and related governmental investigations could increase our costs of regulatory compliance and could have a negative effect on our brand name and on our ability to win new business. We expect increased uncertainty and lower top-line DoD spending over the next several years. We expect the majority of cuts to be reserved for the latter half of the ten-year period over which previously announced cuts are expected to be made. The cuts may include force structure reductions as well as investment account (that is, procurement and research and development) savings. These reductions in spending may have a material impact on our business. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Known Trends and Uncertainties.” The termination of government contracts may adversely affect our business. Our financial performance is dependent on our performance under our U.S. Government contracts. The U.S. Government, and other governments, may terminate any of our government contracts at their convenience, as well as for default based on our failure to meet specified performance measurements. If any of our government contracts were to be terminated for convenience, we generally would be entitled to receive payment for work completed and allowable termination or cancellation costs. If any of our government contracts were to be terminated for default, generally the U.S. Government would pay only for the work that has been accepted and can require us to pay the difference between the original contract price and the cost to re-procure the contract items, net of the work accepted from the original contract. The U.S. Government can also hold us liable for damages resulting from the default. The termination of any of our government contracts, whether for convenience or default, may adversely affect our current programs and may reduce our revenue, earnings or cash flows. Page | 20 Table of Contents As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement regulations and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from a U.S. Government audit or investigation. U.S. Government contractors must comply with many significant procurement regulations and other requirements. These regulations and requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. If any such regulations or procurement requirements change, our costs of complying with them could increase and reduce our margins. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. Government and its agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA). These agencies review our performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. Systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, compensation systems and management information systems. Any costs found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. Whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the U.S. Government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate or if it believes it is in the government’s best interests during the pendency of a dispute. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. The U.S. Government, from time to time, recommends to its contractors that certain contract prices be reduced, or that costs allocated to certain contracts be disallowed. These recommendations can involve substantial amounts. In the past, as a result of such audits and other investigations and inquiries, we have on occasion made adjustments to our contract prices and the costs allocated to our government contracts. We are also, from time to time, subject to U.S. Government investigations relating to our operations, and we are subject to or expected to perform in compliance with a vast array of federal laws, including but not limited to the Truth in Negotiations Act, the False Claims Act, the Procurement Integrity Act, Cost Accounting Standards, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, the Close the Contractor Fraud Loophole Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If we are convicted or otherwise found to have violated the law, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, we may be subject to reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination and the assessment of penalties and fines, compensatory or treble damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Such findings or convictions could also result in suspension or debarment from government contracting. Given our dependence on government contracting, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Page | 21 Table of Contents The Department of Defense has announced plans for significant changes to its business practices that could have a material effect on its overall procurement process and adversely impact our current programs and potential new awards. In September 2010, the DoD announced various initiatives designed to gain efficiencies, refocus priorities and enhance business practices used by the DoD, including those used to procure goods and services from defense contractors. These initiatives are organized into five major areas: affordability and cost growth; productivity and innovation; competition; services acquisition; and processes and bureaucracy. These new initiatives are expected to have a significant impact on the contracting environment in which we do business with our DoD customers, and they could have a significant impact on current programs as well as new DoD business opportunities. In his January 6, 2011, announcement regarding future plans, the Secretary of Defense employed some of these initiatives to reduce costs and free up resources for reinvestment. For example, he discussed using multi-year procurement of Navy aircraft, information technology infrastructure streamlining, reductions in outsourcing, consolidation of operating centers and staffs, improving depot and supply chain processes, downsizing intelligence organizations, and eliminating some elements of the DoD’s bureaucracy. Changes to the DoD acquisition system and contracting models could affect whether or not and how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. These initiatives are still fairly new, and the full impact to our business remains uncertain and subject to the manner in which the DoD implements them. Competition within our markets and an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share. We operate in highly competitive markets, and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. We anticipate higher competition in some of our core markets as a result of the reduction in budgets for many U.S. Government agencies and fewer new program starts. In addition, as discussed above, projected U.S. defense spending levels for periods beyond the near-term are uncertain and difficult to predict. Changes in U.S. defense spending may limit certain future market opportunities. We are also facing increasing competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. Additionally, some customers, including the DoD, may turn to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. If we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Know Trends and Uncertainties.” The competitive environment is also affected by bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. Bid protests could result in the award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. Even where a bid protest does not result in a re-bid, the resolution typically extends the time until the contract activity can begin, which may reduce our earnings in the period in which the contract would otherwise have commenced. Our international business exposes us to additional risks. Our international business constituted approximately 9% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011. We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, Page | 22 Table of Contents repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. Failure by us or our sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities and could, in the extreme case, result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in regulation or political environment may affect our ability to conduct business in foreign markets, including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. The services and products we provide internationally, including through the use of subcontractors, are sometimes in countries with unstable governments, in areas of military conflict or at military installations. This increases the risk of an incident resulting in damage or destruction to our products or resulting in injury or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors or other third parties. We maintain insurance to mitigate risk and potential liabilities related to our international operations, but our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover these claims and liabilities and we may be forced to bear substantial costs arising from those claims. (See additional discussion of possible inadequacy of our insurance coverage below). In addition, any accidents or incidents that occur in connection with our international operations could result in negative publicity for the Company, which may adversely affect our reputation and make it more difficult for us to compete for future contracts or result in the loss of existing and future contracts. The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but any one or more of them could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products and new technologies and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment and a qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future customers. The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. The product, program and service needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our success in the competitive defense industry depends upon our ability to develop and market our products and services, as well as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. If we fail to maintain our competitive position, we could lose a significant amount of future business to our competitors, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate favorable financial results and maintain market share. Operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain sufficient personnel with requisite skills and/or security clearances. If qualified personnel become scarce, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees or could experience difficulty in performing under our contracts if the needs for such employees are unmet. Many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control. Failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. We design, develop and manufacture technologically advanced and innovative products and services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. Problems and delays in development or Page | 23 Table of Contents delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from achieving contractual requirements. In addition, our products cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems. Examples of unforeseen problems that could negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, problems with quality and workmanship, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and unplanned degradation of product performance. These failures could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or property. Among the factors that may affect revenue and profits could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received. Misconduct of our employees, subcontractors, agents and business partners could cause us to lose customers or our ability to obtain new contracts. Misconduct, fraud or other improper activities by our employees, subcontractors, agents or business partners could have a significant adverse impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with federal, state or local government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, laws and regulations relating to environmental matters, bribery of foreign government officials, import-export control, lobbying or similar activities, and any other applicable laws or regulations. Misconduct involving data security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use of our customer’s sensitive or classified information could result in remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. Other examples of potential misconduct include falsifying time or other records and violations of the Anti-Kickback Act. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and controls to prevent and detect these activities, these precautions may not prevent all misconduct and as a result, we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or misconduct by any of our employees, subcontractors, agents or business partners could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance, loss of current and future customer contracts and suspension or debarment from contracting with federal, state or local government agencies, any of which would adversely affect our business, our reputation and our future results. We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. Accounting for construction and production type contracts requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. For example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; consider whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or Page | 24 Table of Contents segmented; consider incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating revenue and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating revenue and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes involved in accounting for construction and production type contracts, materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. The level of returns on postretirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. A substantial portion of Exelis’s current and retired employee population is covered by pension and other employee-related defined benefit plans (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). We may experience significant fluctuations in costs related to postretirement benefit plans as a result of macro-economic factors, such as interest rates, that are beyond our control. The cost of our postretirement plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves various factors and uncertainties during those periods which can be volatile and unpredictable, including the rates of return on postretirement benefit plan assets, discount rates used to calculate liabilities and expenses, rates of future compensation increases, and trends for future medical costs. Management develops each assumption using relevant plan and Company experience and expectations in conjunction with market-related data. Our financial position and results of operations could be materially affected by significant changes in key economic indicators, financial market volatility, future legislation and other governmental regulatory actions. We make contributions to fund our postretirement benefit plans when considered necessary or advantageous to do so. The macro-economic factors discussed above, including the return on postretirement benefit plan assets and the minimum funding requirements established by local government funding or taxing authorities, or established by other agreement, may influence future funding requirements. A significant decline in the fair value of our plan assets, or other adverse changes to our overall pension and other employee-related benefit plans could require us to make significant funding contributions and affect cash flows in future periods. U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards govern the extent to which postretirement costs and plan contributions are allocable to and recoverable under contracts with the U.S. Government. As a result, we have sought and expect to continue to seek reimbursement from the DoD for a portion of our postretirement costs and plan contributions. On December 27, 2011 the U.S. Government’s Cost Accounting Standards Board (CASB) published a final rule that harmonizes CAS pension cost reimbursement rules with the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) funding requirements. The rule will eventually mitigate the mismatch between CAS costs and PPA-amended ERISA minimum funding requirements, and will likely result in an acceleration of allowable CAS pension costs as compared to the prior rules. The final rule will apply to our contracts starting in 2013, although due to a five-year phase in, the rule may not begin to have a material impact on cost reimbursement until 2014, with full phase-in not achieved until 2017. We anticipate that government contractors will be entitled to an equitable adjustment for any additional CAS contract costs resulting from the final rule. Page | 25 Table of Contents Contract cost growth on fixed-price and other contracts that cannot be justified as an increase in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business. Our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. This cost growth can occur if estimates to complete increase due to technical challenges, manufacturing difficulties or delays, or workforce-related issues, or if initial estimates used for calculating the contract cost were incorrect. The cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. Reasons for cost growth may include unavailability or reduced productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the timelines and availability of materials, major subcontractor performance and quality of their products, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, natural disasters and the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant change in cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material adverse effect on our combined financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Most of our contracts are firm fixed-price contracts or flexibly priced contracts. Our risk varies with the type of contract. Flexibly priced contracts include both cost-type and fixed-price incentive contracts. Due to their nature, firm fixed-price contracts inherently have more risk than flexibly priced contracts. Approximately 45% of our annual revenues were derived from firm fixed-price contracts for the year ended December 31, 2011. We typically enter into firm fixed-price contracts where costs can be reasonably estimated based on experience. In addition, our contracts contain provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights. If the terms specified in our contracts are not met, then profitability may be reduced. Fixed-price development work comprises a small portion of our firm fixed-price contracts and inherently has more uncertainty as to future events than production contracts and therefore more variability in estimates of the costs to complete the development stage. As work progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the total costs of the contract are generally reduced. In addition, successful performance of firm fixed-price development contracts that include production units is subject to our ability to control cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates. While management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated with fixed-price development contracts, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. Under a cost-type contract the allowable costs incurred by the contractor are also subject to reimbursement plus a fee that represents profit. We enter into cost-type contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges. These cost-type programs typically have award or incentive fees that are subject to uncertainty and may be earned over extended periods. In these cases the associated financial risks are primarily in lower profit rates or program cancellation if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise. Our earnings and margins may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs, our performance, and our ability to control costs. Our earnings and margins may vary materially depending on the types and timing of long-term government contracts undertaken, the nature of the products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees is finally determined (particularly under award and incentive fee contracts). Changes in procurement policy favoring new, Page | 26 Table of Contents accelerated, or more incentive-based fee arrangements or different award fee criteria may affect the predictability of our profit rates. Our backlog includes a variety of contract types which are intended to address changing risk and reward profiles as a program matures. Contract types include cost-reimbursable, fixed-price incentive, fixed-price, and time-and-materials contracts. Contracts for development programs that have complex design and technical challenges are typically cost-reimbursable. Under cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. In these cases, the associated financial risks primarily relate to a reduction in fees, and the program could be cancelled if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise. Other contracts in backlog are for the transition from development to production (e.g., Low Rate Initial Production), which includes the challenge of starting and stabilizing a manufacturing production and test line while the final design is being validated. These generally are cost-reimbursable or fixed-price incentive contracts, although there is a current stated U.S. Government preference for fixed-price incentive contracts. Under a fixed-price incentive contract, the allowable costs incurred are eligible for reimbursement, but are subject to a cost-share limit which affects profitability. If our costs exceed the contract target cost or are not allowable under the applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated. There are also contracts for production as well as operations and maintenance of the delivered products that have the challenge of achieving a stable production and delivery rate, while maintaining operability of the product after delivery. These contracts are mainly fixed-price, although some operations and maintenance contracts are time and materials-type. Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price despite the actual costs we incur. We have to absorb any costs in excess of the fixed price. Under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. The failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements may result in reduced fees and affect our financial performance in that period. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, our operating results could be adversely affected, particularly if we are unable to justify an increase in contract value to our customers. Cost overruns or the failure to perform on existing programs also may adversely affect our ability to retain existing programs and win future contract awards. Our earnings and margins depend, in part, on our ability to perform under contracts. When agreeing to contractual terms, our management makes assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. These projections assess the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance, and the timing of product deliveries. If there is a significant change in one or more of these circumstances or estimates, or if we face unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of one or more of these contracts may be adversely affected. Page | 27 Table of Contents Our earnings and margins depend, in part, on subcontractor performance as well as raw material and component availability and pricing. We rely on other companies to provide raw materials and major components for our products and we rely on subcontractors to produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies and perform some of the services that we provide to our customers. Disruptions or performance problems caused by our subcontractors and vendors could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. Our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor could be adversely affected if one or more of the vendors or subcontractors are unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our costs may increase over the term of our contracts. Through cost escalation provisions contained in some of our U.S. Government contracts, we may be protected from increases in material costs to the extent that the increases in our costs are in line with industry indices. However, the difference in basis between our actual material costs and these indices may expose us to cost uncertainty even with these provisions. A significant delay in supply deliveries of our key raw materials required in our production processes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the U.S. Government. There are currently several components for which there may be only one supplier. The inability of a sole source supplier to meet our needs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or ability to incur additional debt. At December 31, 2011, we had $650 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt, including $250 million of 4.25% senior notes due in 2016 and $400 million of 5.55% senior notes due in 2021. In addition, at December 31, 2011, we had borrowing capacity of $600 million available to us under our bank credit facility. We expect to issue commercial paper periodically to fund short-term working capital requirements. In the future, we may increase our borrowings, subject to limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness as well as any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including (i) reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or (ii) dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. In addition, our ability to withstand competitive pressures and to react to changes in the defense technology industry could be impaired. The lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of our other debt. Page | 28 Table of Contents We may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial health, and may decrease our profitability. We may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. If our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, or if our cash requirements are more than we expect, we may require more financing. However, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of our preferred stock, the terms of the debt or our preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. The terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. If we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, your percentage ownership in us would decline. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, it could affect our financial health, which could negatively affect your investment in us. Also, regardless of the terms of our debt or equity financing, the amount of our stock that we can issue may be limited because the issuance of our stock may cause the Spin-off to be a taxable event for ITT under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and under the Tax Matters Agreement, we could be required to indemnify ITT for that tax. The Tax Matters Agreement is discussed in Note 18, “Related Party Transactions and Parent Company Equity,” to the Notes of the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations. At December 31, 2011, our goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $2.4 billion, net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 46% of our total assets. Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We also review the carrying value of finite-lived intangible assets for impairment when impairment indicators arise. We estimate the fair value of reporting units used in the goodwill impairment test using an income approach, and as a result the fair value measurements depend on revenue growth rates, future operating margin assumptions, risk-adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions, and identification of appropriate market comparable data. Because of the significance of our goodwill and other intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. Due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. In addition, certain personnel may be required to receive security clearance and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. The loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Page | 29 Table of Contents Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. Approximately 2,400 of our employees are unionized, which represents approximately 12% of our employee-base at December 31, 2011. As a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. We cannot predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor agreements without impacting our financial condition. In addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. Work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. We own many U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other forms of intellectual property. The U.S. Government has rights to use certain intellectual property that we develop in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such intellectual property. Our intellectual property is subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties. We also rely significantly upon proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not protected by patents. We seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors and other parties, as well as through other security measures. These agreements and security measures may not provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information. In the event of an infringement of our intellectual property rights, a breach of a confidentiality agreement or divulgence of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our intellectual property. Litigation to determine the scope of intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful, could be costly and could divert management’s attention away from other aspects of our business. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. In some instances, we have licensed the proprietary intellectual property of others, but we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. Unforeseen environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Our operations are subject to and affected by many federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. In addition, we could be affected by future environmental laws or regulations, including, for example, those imposed in response to climate change concerns. Compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and is expected to continue to require significant operating and capital costs. Environmental laws and regulations may authorize substantial fines and criminal sanctions as well as facility shutdowns to address violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit emissions or discharges. We also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations related to Page | 30 Table of Contents remediation of conditions in the environment. In addition, if violations of environmental laws result in our, or in one or more facilities, being placed on the “Excluded Parties List” maintained by the General Services Administration, we could become ineligible to receive certain contracts, subcontracts and other benefits from the federal government or to perform work under a government contract or subcontract at any listed facility. Generally, such ineligibility would continue until the basis for the listing has been appropriately addressed. Developments such as the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, violations by us of such laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover costs associated with any such developments under previously priced contracts, or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could in the future have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. We rely on our information systems in our operations. Security breaches and other disruptions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As a U.S. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including cyber-security threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information, and threats to physical security. Cyber-security threats are evolving and include, among others, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. The unavailability of our information systems, the failure of these systems to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our operations, lead to financial losses from remedial actions, require significant management attention and resources, and could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our systems are decentralized, which presents various risks, including the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting a key business than we would be in a more centralized environment. In addition, “company-wide” business initiatives, such as the integration of information technology systems, or the formation of a technology system impacting different parts of our business, are often more challenging and costly to implement, and their risk of failure higher, than they would be in a more centralized environment. Depending on the nature of the initiative in question, such failure could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. In addition, we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. The final determination of Page | 31 Table of Contents tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. The effects of changes in worldwide economic and capital markets conditions may significantly affect our revenue, profitability, results of operations and our ability to maintain liquidity or procure capital. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by factors in the United States and other countries that are beyond its control, such as disruptions in financial markets or downturns in economic activity in specific countries or regions, or in the various industries in which the Company operates; social, political or labor conditions in specific countries or regions; or adverse changes in the availability and cost of capital, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, tax rates, or regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. If, for any reason, we lose access to our currently available lines of credit, or if we are required to raise additional capital, we may be unable to do so in the current credit and stock market environment, or we may be able to do so only on unfavorable terms. Adverse changes to financial conditions could jeopardize certain counterparty obligations, including those of our insurers and financial institutions and other third parties. The tightening of credit markets may reduce the funds available to our customers to buy our products and services for an unknown, but perhaps lengthy, period. Restrictive credit markets may also result in customers extending times for payment and may result in our having higher customer receivables with increased default rates. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and foreign economies may also cause customers to reduce consumption even in a stable marketplace. Risks Relating to our Recent Separation from ITT We face the following risks in connection with our Spin-off from ITT: If the Spin-off were to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction under the Code, then we and/or our former parent and our stockholders could be subject to significant tax liability. In connection with the Spin-off, our former parent, ITT Corporation, received an IRS ruling (the “IRS Ruling”) stating that ITT and its shareholders will not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for U.S. Federal income tax purposes as a result of the Spin-off. In addition, ITT received an opinion of tax counsel as to the satisfaction of certain requirements necessary for the Spin-off to receive tax-free treatment upon which the IRS did not rule. The IRS Ruling, while generally binding upon the IRS, was based on certain factual statements and representations. If any such factual statements or representations were incomplete or untrue in any material respect, or if the facts on which the IRS Ruling was based were materially different from the facts at the time of the Spin-off, the IRS could modify or revoke the IRS Ruling retroactively. As discussed above, certain requirements for tax-free treatment that are not covered in the IRS Ruling were addressed in the opinion of counsel. The opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS. Accordingly, the IRS may reach conclusions with respect to the Spin-off that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinion. Like the IRS Ruling, the opinion was based on certain factual statements and representations, which, if incomplete or untrue in any material respect, could alter counsel’s conclusions. Page | 32 Table of Contents If all or a portion of the Spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction because any of the factual statements or representations in the IRS Ruling or the legal opinion are incomplete or untrue, or because the facts upon which the IRS Ruling is based are materially different from the facts at the time of the Spin-off, ITT would recognize a substantial gain for U.S. Federal income tax purposes. In such case, under U.S. Treasury regulations each member of the ITT consolidated group at the time of the Spin-off (including us and our subsidiaries), would be jointly and severally liable for the entire amount of any resulting U.S. Federal income tax liability. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Spin-off will be taxable to ITT (but not to ITT shareholders) pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code if there are one or more purchases (including issuances) of the stock of either us or ITT, representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of the then-outstanding stock of either corporation and the purchase or purchases are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Spin-off. Any acquisition of our common stock within two years before or after the Spin-off (with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% shareholders and certain compensatory stock issuances) generally will be presumed to be part of such a plan unless that presumption is rebutted. The tax liability resulting from the application of Section 355(e) would be substantial. In addition, under U.S. Treasury regulations, each member of the ITT consolidated group at the time of the Spin-off (including us and our subsidiaries) would be severally liable for the resulting U.S. Federal income tax liability. We have agreed not to enter into any transaction that could cause any portion of the Spin-off to be taxable to ITT, including under Section 355(e). Pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement, we have also agreed to indemnify ITT and Xylem Inc. for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions, and ITT and Xylem Inc. have agreed to indemnify us for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions entered into by ITT and Xylem Inc. These obligations may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our Company. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as an independent, publicly traded company. As an independent, publicly traded company, we believe that our business will benefit from, among other things, (i) greater strategic focus of financial resources and management’s efforts, (ii) enhanced customer focus, (iii) direct access to capital resources, (iv) enhanced investor choices by offering investment opportunities in a separate entity from ITT, (v) improved management incentive tools, and (vi) utilization of stock as an acquisition currency. However, by separating from ITT, we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than we would have been were we still a part of ITT. In addition, we may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as an independent company in the time we expect, if at all. We do not have a recent operating history as an independent company and our historical financial information may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical financial information we have included in this report has been derived in part from ITT’s consolidated financial statements and does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been as a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. ITT did not account for us, and we were not operated, as a single stand-alone entity for certain of the periods presented even if we represented a reporting segment in ITT’s historical consolidated financial statements. In addition, the historical information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future. Page | 33 Table of Contents We may incur greater costs as an independent company than we did when we were part of ITT. As a part of ITT, we took advantage of ITT’s size and purchasing power in procuring certain goods and services such as insurance and health care benefits, and technology such as computer software licenses. We also relied on ITT to provide various corporate functions. Following the Spin-off, as a separate, independent entity, we may be unable to obtain these goods, services and technologies at prices or on terms as favorable to us as those we obtained prior to the Spin-off. We may also incur costs for functions previously performed by ITT that are higher than the amounts reflected in our historical financial statements, which could cause our profitability to decrease. Our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we are subject as a new independent, publicly traded company. Our financial results previously were included within the consolidated results of ITT, and we believe that our financial reporting and internal controls were appropriate for those of subsidiaries of a public company. However, we were not directly subject to the reporting and other requirements of the Exchange Act. As an independent, publicly traded company, we are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act. Beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2012, we will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. These reporting and other obligations may place significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. We expect to incur additional annual expenses for the purpose of addressing these requirements, and those expenses may be significant. If we are unable to upgrade our financial and management controls, reporting systems, information technology systems and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies under the Exchange Act could be impaired. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements. The Spin-off could be challenged under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. An unpaid creditor or an entity vested with the power of such creditor (such as a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy) could claim that the Spin-off left us, ITT and/or Xylem Inc. insolvent or with unreasonably small capital or that we, ITT and/or Xylem Inc. intended or believed it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature and that ITT did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the Spin-off. If a court were to agree with such a plaintiff, then such court could void the Spin-off as a fraudulent transfer and could impose a number of different remedies, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of Page | 34 Table of Contents operations. Among other things, the court could require the return of assets or our shares to ITT, voiding the liens of Exelis and claims against ITT, or providing ITT with a claim for money damages against us. The measure of insolvency for purposes of the fraudulent conveyance laws will vary depending on which jurisdiction’s law is applied. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if either the fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount of its liabilities (including the probable amount of contingent liabilities), or it is unlikely to be able to pay its liabilities as they become due. No assurance can be given as to what standard a court would apply to determine insolvency or that a court would determine that we were solvent at the time of or after giving effect to the Spin-off. The Spin-off could also be challenged under state corporate distribution statutes. Under the Indiana Business Corporation Law, a corporation may not make distributions to its shareholders if, after giving effect to the distribution, (i) the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business; or (ii) the corporation’s total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities. No assurance can be given that a court will not later determine that the distribution of our shares in connection with the Spin-off was unlawful. Under the Distribution Agreement, from and after the Spin-off, we will be responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses which we own and operate following the consummation of the Spin-off. Although we do not expect to be liable for any of these or other obligations not expressly assumed by us pursuant to the Distribution Agreement, it is possible that we could be required to assume responsibility for certain obligations retained by ITT or Xylem Inc. should ITT or Xylem Inc. fail to pay or perform its retained obligations (for example, tax, asbestos and/or environmental liabilities). In connection with our separation, ITT and Xylem Inc. will indemnify us for certain liabilities and we will indemnify ITT or Xylem Inc. for certain liabilities. If we are required to indemnify ITT or Xylem Inc., we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. In the case of ITT’s or Xylem Inc.’s indemnity, there can be no assurance that those indemnities will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or as to ITT’s or Xylem Inc.’s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. Pursuant to the Distribution Agreement and certain other agreements with ITT and Xylem Inc., ITT and Xylem Inc. agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify ITT and Xylem Inc. for certain liabilities as discussed further in Note 18, “Related Party Transactions and Parent Company Equity,” and Note 19, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to the Notes of the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements. Indemnities that we may be required to provide ITT and Xylem Inc. may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the Spin-off. Third-parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that ITT or Xylem Inc. has agreed to retain. Further, there can be no assurance that the indemnity from ITT and Xylem Inc. will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that ITT and Xylem Inc. will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from ITT and Xylem Inc., any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Page | 35 Table of Contents We may have been able to receive better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms we receive in our agreements related to the Spin-off. The agreements related to the Spin-off, including the Distribution Agreement, Benefits and Compensation Matters Agreement, Intellectual Property License Agreement, Tax Matters Agreement, Transition Services Agreements and any other agreements, were negotiated in the context of our separation from ITT while we were still part of ITT. Accordingly, these agreements may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. The terms of the agreements negotiated in the context of our separation are related to, among other things, allocations of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations among ITT, Xylem Inc. and us. We may have received better terms under the agreements related to the Spin-off from third parties because third parties may have competed with each other to win our business. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock You face the following risks in connection with ownership of our common stock: There is not a long market history for our common stock and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; • success or failure of our business strategy; • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; • our ability to obtain financing as needed; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant new business awards; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • investor perception of our Company and the defense industry; • natural or environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; • overall market fluctuations; • fluctuations in the budget of federal, state and local governmental entities around the world; • results from any material litigation or government investigation; • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and • general economic conditions and other external factors. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will pay dividends on our common stock, and our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. The timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial Page | 36 Table of Contents condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our Board of Directors considers relevant. There can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividend if we do commence the payment of dividends. Additionally, if we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt-payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the Board of Directors, will be impaired and we may be required to attempt to restructure or refinance our debt, raise additional capital or take other actions such as selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or reducing our dividend. There can be no assurance, however, that any such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our other credit and contractual arrangements. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Indiana law could delay or prevent a change in control. Certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable. For example, the amended and restated articles of incorporation and the amended and restated by-laws, among other things, provide for a classified board and require advance notice for shareholder proposals and nominations, do not permit shareholders to convene special meetings and do not permit action by written consent of the shareholders. In addition, the amended and restated articles of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. Indiana law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock and us as well as certain restrictions on the voting rights of “control shares” of an “issuing public corporation.” Under the Tax Matters Agreement, we have agreed not to enter into any transaction that could cause the Spin-off to be taxable to ITT. We have also agreed to indemnify ITT for any tax resulting from any such transactions. Generally, ITT will recognize taxable gain on the Spin-off if there are one or more purchases (including issuances) of our capital stock, directly or indirectly, representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of our then-outstanding capital stock, and the purchases or issuances are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Spin-off. Any such shares of our common stock acquired, directly or indirectly, within two years before or after the Spin-off (with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% shareholders and certain compensatory stock issuances) will generally be presumed to be part of such a plan unless that presumption is rebutted. As a result, our obligations may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved comments from the SEC. Page | 37 Table of Contents 