Item 1A. Risk Factors This section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. The occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. General economic uncertainty and weak demand in the vacation ownership industry could impact our financial results and growth. Weak economic conditions in the United States, Europe, Asia and much of the rest of the world and the uncertainty over the duration of such conditions could have a negative impact on the vacation ownership industry. Weak consumer confidence and limited availability of consumer credit can, as it has in the past, cause us to experience weakened demand for our vacation ownership products. Recent improvements in demand trends globally may not continue, and our future financial results and growth could be harmed or constrained if the recovery stalls or conditions worsen. Our business will be materially harmed if our License Agreements with Marriott International and Ritz-Carlton are terminated or if we are unable to maintain our ongoing relationship with Marriott International. Our success will depend, in part, on the maintenance of ongoing relationships with Marriott International that are governed by a number of agreements that we entered into with Marriott International in connection with the Spin-Off. In particular, our License Agreements with Marriott International and Ritz-Carlton, among other things, provide us with the exclusive right to use the Marriott and Ritz-Carlton names, respectively, in our vacation ownership business. Each License Agreement has an initial term that expires in 2090; however, if we breach our obligations under either License Agreement, Marriott International and Ritz-Carlton may be entitled to terminate the License Agreements. 16 Table of Contents The termination of the License Agreements would materially harm our business and results of operations and impair our ability to market and sell our products and maintain our competitive position, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. For example, we would not be able to rely on the strength of the Marriott and Ritz-Carlton brands to attract qualified prospects in the marketplace, which would cause our revenue and profits to decline and our marketing and sales expenses to increase. We would not be able to use www.marriott.com and www.ritzcarlton.com as channels through which to rent available inventory, which would cause our rental revenue to decline. In addition, the Marriott Rewards Agreement would also terminate upon termination of the License Agreements, and we would not be able to offer Marriott Rewards Points to owners and potential owners, which would impair our ability to sell our products and would reduce the flexibility and options available in connection with our products. If Marriott International or Ritz-Carlton terminates our rights to use the Marriott or Ritz-Carlton marks at any properties that do not meet applicable brand standards, our reputation could be harmed and our ability to market and sell our products at those properties could be impaired. Marriott International and Ritz-Carlton can terminate our rights under our License Agreements to use the Marriott or Ritz-Carlton marks at any properties that do not meet applicable brand standards. The termination of such rights could harm our reputation and impair our ability to market and sell our products at the subject properties, either of which could harm our business, and we could owe damages to Marriott International and Ritz-Carlton, property owners, third parties with whom we have contracted and others. Our ability to expand our business and remain competitive could be harmed if Marriott International or Ritz-Carlton do not consent to our use of their trademarks at new resorts we acquire or develop in the future. Under the terms of our License Agreements with Marriott International and Ritz-Carlton, we must obtain Marriott International’s or Ritz-Carlton’s consent, as applicable, to use the Marriott or Ritz-Carlton trademarks in connection with resorts, residences or other accommodations that we acquire or develop in the future. Marriott International or Ritz-Carlton may reject a proposed project if, among other things, the project does not meet Marriott International’s or Ritz-Carlton’s respective construction and design standards or Marriott International or Ritz-Carlton reasonably believes the project will breach contractual or legal restrictions applicable to them and their affiliates. In addition, Ritz-Carlton may reject a proposed project if Ritz-Carlton will not be able to provide services that comply with Ritz-Carlton brand standards at the proposed project. If Marriott International or Ritz-Carlton do not permit us to use their trademarks in connection with our development or acquisition plans, our ability to expand our Marriott and Ritz-Carlton businesses and remain competitive may be materially adversely affected. The requirement to obtain Marriott International’s or Ritz-Carlton’s consent to our expansion plans, or the need to identify and secure alternative expansion opportunities because Marriott International or Ritz-Carlton do not allow us to use their trademarks with proposed new projects, may delay implementation of our expansion plans and cause us to incur additional expense. Our business depends on the quality and reputation of the Marriott and Ritz-Carlton brands, and any deterioration in the quality or reputation of these brands could have an adverse impact on our market share, reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. Currently, our products and services are predominantly offered under Marriott or Ritz-Carlton brand names, and we intend to continue to develop and offer products and services under these brands in the future. If the quality of these brands deteriorates, or the reputation of these brands declines, our market share, reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. A failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. Our business model and competitive conditions in the vacation ownership industry demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our sales, reservation, inventory management and property management systems, and technologies we make available to our owners. We must refine, update and/or replace these technologies and systems with more advanced systems on a regular basis. If we cannot do so as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames, our business could suffer. We also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could harm our operating results. Failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions or operational inefficiencies, damage our reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits. We collect and retain large volumes of internal and customer data, including social security numbers, credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers in various information systems and those of our service providers. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee and company data is critical to us. We could make faulty decisions if that data is inaccurate or incomplete. Our customers and employees also have a high expectation that we and our service providers will adequately protect their personal information. The regulatory environment as well as the requirements imposed on us by the payment card industry surrounding information, security and privacy is also increasingly demanding, in both the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our systems may be unable to satisfy changing regulatory and payment card industry requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so. Our information systems and records, including those we maintain with 17 Table of Contents our service providers, may be subject to security breaches, cyber attacks, system failures, viruses, operator error or inadvertent releases of data. A significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee or company data maintained by us or by a service provider could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines or litigation. A breach in the security of our information systems or those of our service providers could lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits. The sale of vacation ownership interests in the secondary market by existing owners could cause our sales revenues and profits to decline. Existing owners have offered, and are expected to continue to offer, their vacation ownership interests for sale on the secondary market. The prices at which these interests are sold are typically less than the prices at which we would sell the interests. As a result, these sales create additional pricing pressure on our sale of vacation ownership products, which could cause our sales revenues and profits to decline. We depend on capital to develop, acquire and repurchase vacation ownership inventory, and we may be unable to access capital when necessary. The availability of funds for new investments, primarily developing, acquiring or repurchasing vacation ownership inventory, depends in part on liquidity factors and capital markets over which we can exert little, if any, control. Instability in the financial markets and any resulting contraction of available liquidity and leverage could constrain the capital markets for real estate investments. In addition, we have historically securitized the majority of the consumer loans we originate in support of our North America segment in the ABS market, completing transactions once or twice each year. Instability in the financial markets could also impact the timing and volume of any securitizations we undertake, as well as the financial terms of such securitizations. Any future deterioration in the financial markets could preclude, delay or increase the cost to us of future note securitizations. Such deterioration could also impact our ability to renew the Warehouse Credit Facility, which we must do in order to access funds under that facility after September 2014, on terms favorable to us, or at all. Further, the obligations of MVW US Holdings, our consolidated subsidiary, to its preferred shareholders and any indebtedness we incur, including indebtedness under our Revolving Corporate Credit Facility or our Warehouse Credit Facility, may adversely affect our ability to obtain any additional financing necessary to acquire additional vacation ownership inventory or make other investments in our business, or to repurchase vacation ownership interests that our owners propose to sell to third parties. In addition, our ability to issue equity securities to raise capital is limited under the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement. See “—Our ability to engage in acquisitions and other strategic transactions is subject to limitations because we agreed to certain restrictions to comply with U.S. federal income tax requirements for a tax-free spin-off.” If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it could cause us to reduce spending and otherwise adversely affect our financial health. The degree to which we are leveraged may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We can borrow up to $200 million under the Revolving Corporate Credit Facility. In addition, our consolidated subsidiary, MVW US Holdings, issued approximately $40 million in mandatorily redeemable preferred stock to Marriott International that Marriott International sold to third-party investors prior to completion of the Spin-Off. Our ability to make dividend payments to preferred shareholders of our consolidated subsidiary and to make payments on and refinance our indebtedness, including any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that we cannot control. If we cannot repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including (1) reducing capital expenditures, (2) limiting financing offered to customers, which could result in reduced sales, and (3) dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. In addition, our ability to withstand competitive pressures and to react to changes in the vacation ownership industry could be impaired. The lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of our other debt. The terms of any future equity or debt financing may give holders of any preferred securities rights that are senior to rights of our common shareholders or impose more stringent operating restrictions on our company. Debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms. If we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of additional preferred stock, the terms of the debt or the preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. The terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations. If we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, the ownership of our existing shareholders would be diluted. 18 Table of Contents If the default rates or other credit metrics underlying our vacation ownership receivables deteriorate, our vacation ownership notes receivable securitization program could be adversely affected. Our vacation ownership notes receivable securitization program could be adversely affected if a particular vacation ownership receivables pool fails to meet certain ratios, which could occur if the default rates or other credit metrics of the underlying vacation ownership notes receivable deteriorate. Our ability to sell securities backed by our vacation ownership notes receivable depends on the continued ability and willingness of capital market participants to invest in such securities. Asset-backed securities issued in our securitization programs could be downgraded by credit agencies in the future. If a downgrade occurs, our ability to complete other securitization transactions on acceptable terms or at all could be jeopardized, and we could be forced to rely on other potentially more expensive and less attractive funding sources, to the extent available. This would decrease our profitability and might require us to adjust our business operations, including by reducing or suspending our provision of financing to purchasers of vacation ownership interests. Sales of vacation ownership interests may decline if we reduce or suspend the provision of financing to purchasers, which may adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and profits. Purchaser defaults on the vacation ownership notes receivable our business generates could reduce our revenues, cash flows and profits. We are subject to the risk that purchasers of our vacation ownership interests may default on the financing that we provide. Purchaser defaults could cause us to foreclose on vacation ownership notes receivable and reclaim ownership of the financed interests, both for loans that we have not securitized and in our role as servicer for the vacation ownership notes receivable we have securitized whether through the ABS market or the Warehouse Credit Facility. If we cannot resell foreclosed interests in a timely manner or at a price sufficient to repay the vacation ownership notes receivable and our costs we could incur a loss. In addition, vacation ownership notes receivable that we have securitized contain certain portfolio performance requirements related to default and delinquency rates, which, if not met, would result in disruption or loss of cash flow until portfolio performance sufficiently improves to satisfy the requirements. We may incur greater costs as an independent company than we did when we were a part of Marriott International, which could decrease our profitability. As a segment of Marriott International, we were able to take advantage of Marriott International’s size and purchasing power in procuring certain goods and services such as insurance and healthcare benefits, and technology such as computer software licenses. We also relied on Marriott International to provide various financial, administrative and other corporate services. While Marriott International has continued to provide certain of these services on a short-term transitional basis since the Spin-Off, we are required to establish the necessary infrastructure and systems to supply these services for ourselves. We may not be able to complete these efforts without incurring greater costs than we did when we received these services through Marriott International. Increases in the costs of goods and services previously obtained through, or functions previously performed by, Marriott International could cause our profitability to decrease. If we are not able to favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is not able to provide an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As a public entity, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), including the obligation of our management to report on its assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are in the process of establishing new infrastructure and systems, including infrastructure and systems to replace financial, administrative and other corporate services that are currently being provided by Marriott International, some of which may impact our ability to favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or our independent registered public accounting firm cannot provide an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence and, in turn, the market price of our common stock could decline. If we cannot dispose of excess land and Luxury segment real estate inventory at favorable prices or at all, our future cash flows and net income could be reduced. We have excess land that was purchased for future development, as well as excess built Luxury segment real estate inventory at a few of our projects. Current economic conditions, as well as restrictions such as zoning, entitlement, contractual and similar restrictions related to the excess land and inventory could adversely affect our ability to dispose of properties at favorable prices or at all. We are responsible for maintenance fees and operating costs relating to this unsold excess land and inventory. If we are not able to sell this excess land and inventory we will continue to bear these costs, which may increase over time, and our net income will be reduced. If we identify additional excess land and inventory in the future, or if our estimates of the fair value of our excess land and inventory change, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Based on our current plans, we believe we have identified all excess land and inventory. However, if our plans change, we may conclude in the future that additional land and inventory are excess, in which case we would likely terminate plans to develop such 19 Table of Contents land and instead seek to dispose of such excess land and inventory through bulk sales or other methods. If we identify additional excess land and inventory in the future, we may have to record additional non-cash impairment charges to write-down the value of such assets. Any such impairment charges may have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. The sale of any such additional excess land and inventory will be subject to the risks described in the risk factor entitled “—If we cannot dispose of excess land and Luxury segment real estate inventory at favorable prices or at all, our future cash flows and net income could be reduced.” In addition, if real estate market conditions change, our estimates of the fair value of our excess land and Luxury inventory may change. If our estimates of the fair value of these assets decline, we may have to record additional non-cash impairment charges to write-down the value of such assets to the estimated fair value. Any such impairment charges may have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. The obligations of MVW US Holdings to its preferred shareholders will limit the ability of MVW US Holdings to distribute cash to us. Our subsidiary, MVW US Holdings, issued approximately $40 million in mandatorily redeemable preferred stock to Marriott International, which sold the preferred stock to third-party investors prior to completion of the Spin-Off. For the first five years the Series A preferred stock will pay an annual cash dividend equal to the five year U.S. Treasury Rate as of October 19, 2011 plus a spread of 10.958 percent, for a total annual cash dividend rate of 12 percent. On the fifth anniversary of issuance, the annual cash dividend rate will be reset to the five year U.S. Treasury Rate in effect on such date plus the same 10.958 percent spread. The payment of this dividend will reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution by MVW US Holdings to us for further distribution to our common shareholders or for other corporate purposes. MVW US Holdings will not be able to pay any dividends to us if it is in arrears on the payment of dividends to the preferred shareholders. In addition, in the event of a liquidation of MVW US Holdings, the preferred shareholders will be entitled to an aggregate liquidation preference of $40 million plus any accrued and unpaid dividends and a premium if the liquidation occurs during the first five years after issuance of the preferred stock, which will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution by MVW US Holdings to us. Further, if MVW US Holdings either (1) is in arrears on the payment of six or more quarterly dividend payments on the preferred stock, whether or not the payment dates are consecutive, or (2) defaults on its obligations to redeem the preferred stock on the tenth anniversary of issuance or following a change of control, the preferred shareholders may designate a representative to attend meetings of our Board as a non-voting observer until all unpaid dividends on the outstanding shares of preferred stock have been paid or all such unpaid dividends have been paid or declared with an amount sufficient for the payment set aside for payment, or the shares required to be redeemed have been redeemed, as applicable. Our industry is competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other vacation ownership brands and with other vacation rental options for customers. A number of highly competitive companies participate in the vacation ownership industry, including several branded hotel companies. Our brands compete with the vacation ownership brands of major hotel chains in national and international venues, as well as with the vacation rental options (such as hotels, resorts and condominium rentals) offered by the lodging industry. In addition, under our License Agreements with Marriott International and Ritz-Carlton, if other international hotel operators offer new products and services as part of their respective hotel businesses that may directly compete with our vacation ownership products and services in the future, then Marriott International and Ritz-Carlton may also offer such new products and services, and use their respective trademarks in connection with such offers. If Marriott International or Ritz-Carlton offer new vacation ownership products and services under their trademarks, our vacation ownership products and services may compete directly with those of Marriott International or Ritz-Carlton, and we may not be able to distinguish our vacation ownership products and services from those offered by Marriott International and Ritz-Carlton. Our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain owners depends on our success in distinguishing the quality and value of our products and services from those offered by others. If we cannot compete successfully in these areas, this could limit our operating margins, diminish our market share and reduce our earnings. Our points-based product form exposes us to an increased risk of temporary inventory depletion. Selling vacation ownership interests in a system of resorts under a points-based business model increases the risk of temporary inventory depletion. We sell vacation ownership interests denominated in points from a single trust entity in each of our North America and Asia Pacific business segments. Thus, the primary source of inventory for each of these segments is concentrated in its corresponding trust. In contrast, under our prior business model, we sold weeks-based vacation ownership interests tied to specific resorts; we thus had more sources of inventory (i.e., resorts), and the risk of inventory depletion was diffused among those sources of inventory. Temporary depletion of inventory available for sale can be caused by three primary factors: (1) delayed delivery of inventory under construction; (2) delayed receipt of required governmental registrations of inventory for sale; and (3) significant unanticipated increases in sales pace. If the inventory available for sale for a particular trust were to be depleted before new inventory is added and available for sale, we would be required to temporarily suspend sales until inventory is replenished. This could reduce our cash flow and have a negative impact on our results of operations. 20 Table of Contents The growth of our business and the execution of our business strategies depend on the services of our senior management and our associates. We believe that our future growth depends, in part, on the continued services of our senior management team, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Stephen P. Weisz. The loss of any members of our senior management team could adversely affect our strategic and customer relationships and impede our ability to execute our business strategies. In addition, insufficient numbers of talented associates could constrain our ability to maintain and expand our business. We compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel. If we cannot recruit, train, develop or retain sufficient numbers of talented associates, we could experience increased associate turnover, decreased guest satisfaction, low morale, inefficiency or internal control failures. Our business is subject to extensive regulation, and any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is regulated under a wide variety of laws, regulations and policies in jurisdictions around the world. Our real estate development activities, for example, are subject to laws and regulations typically applicable to real estate development, subdivision and construction activities, such as laws relating to zoning, land use restrictions, environmental regulation, accessibility, title transfers, title insurance and taxation. Laws in some jurisdictions also impose liability on property developers for construction defects discovered or repairs made by future owners of property developed by the developer. Various laws also govern our lending activities and our resort management activities, including the laws described in “Business—Regulation.” A number of laws govern our marketing and sales activities, such as vacation ownership and land sales acts, fair housing statutes, anti-fraud laws, sweepstakes laws, real estate licensing laws, telemarketing laws, home solicitation sales laws, tour operator laws, seller of travel laws, securities laws, consumer privacy laws and consumer protection laws. In addition, laws in many jurisdictions in which we sell vacation ownership interests grant the purchaser of a vacation ownership interest the right to cancel a purchase contract during a specified rescission period. In recent years, “do not call” legislation has significantly increased the costs associated with telemarketing. We have implemented procedures that we believe will help reduce the possibility that we contact individuals on regulatory “do not call” lists, but such procedures may not be effective in ensuring regulatory compliance. Additionally we are not considered an affiliate of Marriott International for purposes of “do not call” legislation in some jurisdictions, which may make it more difficult for us to utilize customer information we obtain from Marriott International. Many jurisdictions in which we manage our resorts have statutory provisions that limit the duration of the initial and renewal terms of our management agreements for property owners’ associations and/or permit the property owners’ association for a resort to terminate our management agreement regardless of our default under certain circumstances (for example, upon a super-majority vote of the owners). Such statutory provisions expose us to a risk that one or more of our management agreements may not be renewed or may be terminated prior to the end of the term specified in such agreements. Upon non-renewal or termination of our management agreement for a particular resort, such resort loses the ability to use the Marriott or Ritz-Carlton name and trademarks and ceases to be a part of our system. In addition, we lose the management fee revenue associated with such resort. We may not be successful in maintaining compliance with all laws, regulations and policies to which we are currently subject, and the cost of compliance with such laws, regulations and policies could be significant. Failure to comply with current or future applicable laws, regulations and policies could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, if we do not comply with applicable laws, governmental authorities in the jurisdictions where the violations occurred may revoke or refuse to renew licenses or registrations we must have in order to operate our business. Failure to comply with applicable laws could also render sales contracts for our products void or voidable, subject us to fines or other sanctions and increase our exposure to litigation. Changes in privacy law could adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. We rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing and postal mailings. Adoption of new state or federal laws regulating marketing and solicitation, or international data protection laws that govern these activities, or changes to existing laws, such as the Telemarketing Sales Rule and the CANSPAM Act, could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of telemarketing, email and postal mailing techniques and could force us to make further changes in our marketing strategy. If this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of vacation ownership interests and other products. We also obtain access to potential customers from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other companies’ marketing materials. If access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce our products to them could be impaired. Changes in tax regulations could reduce our profits or increase our costs. Jurisdictions in which we do business may at any time review tax and other revenue raising laws, regulations and policies, and any resulting changes could impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our profits. In particular, governments may revise tax laws, regulations or official interpretations in ways that could have a significant impact on us, including modifications that could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-U.S. operations, or that could require 21 Table of Contents costly changes to those operations, or the way that we structure them. For example, most U.S. company effective tax rates reflect the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the United States is generally taxed at local rates, which are often much lower than U.S. tax rates. If changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations were to significantly increase the tax rates on non-U.S. income, our effective tax rate could increase, our profits could be reduced, and if such increases were a result of our status as a U.S. company, we could be placed at a disadvantage to our non-U.S. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates. Our business may be adversely affected by factors that disrupt or deter travel. The profitability of the vacation ownership resorts that we develop and manage may be adversely affected by a number of factors that can disrupt or deter travel. For example, fear of exposure to contagious diseases, such as H1N1 Flu, Avian Flu and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, floods, fires, volcanic eruptions, radiation releases and oil spills, may deter travelers from scheduling sales tours at our resorts or cause them to cancel travel plans. Actual or threatened war, civil unrest and terrorist activity, as well as heightened travel security measures instituted in response to the same, could also interrupt or deter travel plans. In addition, demand for vacation options such as our vacation ownership products may decrease if the cost of travel, including the cost of transportation and fuel, increases or if general economic conditions decline. Changes in the desirability of the locations where we develop and manage resorts as vacation destinations and changes in vacation and travel patterns may adversely affect our cash flows, revenue and profits. Disagreements with the owners of vacation ownership interests and property owners’ associations may result in litigation and the loss of management contracts. The nature of our relationships with our owners and our responsibilities in managing our vacation ownership properties will from time to time give rise to disagreements with the owners of vacation ownership interests and property owners’ associations. Owners of our vacation ownership interests may also disagree with changes we make to our products or programs. We seek to expeditiously resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential owners and property owners’ associations but cannot always do so. Failure to resolve such disagreements has resulted in litigation, and could do so again in the future. If any such litigation results in a significant adverse judgment, settlement or court order, we could suffer significant losses, our profits could be reduced, our reputation could be harmed and our future ability to operate our business could be constrained. Disagreements with property owners’ associations could also result in the loss of management contracts. The maintenance and refurbishment of vacation ownership properties depends on maintenance fees paid by the owners of vacation ownership interests. Owners of our vacation ownership interests must pay maintenance fees levied by property owners’ association boards. These maintenance fees are used to maintain and refurbish the vacation ownership properties and to keep the properties in compliance with Marriott and Ritz-Carlton brand standards. If property owners’ association boards do not levy sufficient maintenance fees, or if owners of vacation ownership interests do not pay their maintenance fees, the vacation ownership properties could fall into disrepair and fail to comply with applicable brand standards. If a resort fails to comply with applicable brand standards, Marriott International or Ritz-Carlton could terminate our rights under the applicable License Agreement to use its trademarks at the non-compliant resort, which would result in the loss of management fees, decrease customer satisfaction and impair our ability to market and sell our products at the non-compliant locations. Damage to, or other potential losses involving, properties that we own or manage may not be covered by insurance. Market forces beyond our control may limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. Certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist acts, may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. As a result, the cost of our insurance may increase and our coverage levels may decrease. In addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or that of owners of vacation ownership interests or in some cases may not provide a recovery for any part of a loss. As a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated under guarantees or other financial obligations related to the property. Our development activities expose us to project cost and completion risks. Both directly and through arrangements with third parties, we develop new vacation ownership properties and new phases of existing vacation ownership properties. Our ongoing involvement in the development of inventory presents a number of risks, including that: (1) weakness in the capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects or for development of future properties; (2) to the extent construction costs escalate faster than the pace at which we can increase the price of vacation ownership interests, our profits may be adversely affected; (3) construction delays, zoning and other local approvals, cost overruns, lender financial defaults, or natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, floods, fires, volcanic eruptions, radiation releases and oil spills, may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; and (4) any liability or alleged liability associated with latent defects in projects we have constructed or that we construct in the future may adversely affect our business, financial condition and reputation. 22 Table of Contents Our operations outside of the United States make us susceptible to the risks of doing business internationally, which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. We conduct business in over 30 countries and territories, and our operations outside the United States represented approximately 15 percent of our revenues in 2012. International properties and operations expose us to a number of additional challenges and risks, including the following, any of which could reduce our revenues or profits, increase our costs, or disrupt our business: (1) complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of governments that may impact our operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, and trade restrictions; (2) U.S. laws that affect the activities of U.S. companies abroad; (3) limitations on our ability to repatriate non-U.S. earnings in a tax-effective manner; (4) the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries; (5) uncertainties as to the enforceability of contract and intellectual property rights under local laws; (6) rapid changes in government policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation; and (7) currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our ability to engage in acquisitions and other strategic transactions is subject to limitations because we agreed to certain restrictions to comply with U.S. federal income tax requirements for a tax-free spin-off. To preserve the favorable tax treatment of the Spin-Off distribution and related transactions, we must comply with restrictions under current U.S. federal income tax laws for spin-offs such as restrictions requiring us to: refrain from engaging in certain transactions that would result in a 50 percent or greater change by vote or by value in our stock ownership during the four-year period beginning on the date that begins two years before the distribution date, and continue to own and manage our vacation ownership business and limit sales or redemptions of our common stock for cash or other property following the distribution, except in connection with certain stock-for-stock acquisitions and other permitted transactions. If these restrictions are not followed, the distribution could be taxable to Marriott International and Marriott International shareholders. The Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement we entered into with Marriott International in connection with the Spin-Off allocates between Marriott International and ourselves responsibility for U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. income and other taxes relating to taxable periods before and after the distribution and provide for computing and apportioning tax liabilities and tax benefits between the parties. In the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement, we also represented that certain materials relating to us submitted to the IRS in connection with the ruling request are complete and accurate in all material respects, and we agreed that, among other things, we may not (1) take or fail to take any action that would cause such materials (or representations included therein) to be untrue or cause the distribution to lose its tax-free status under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and/or 355 of the Code and (2) during the two-year period following the Spin-Off, except in certain specified transactions, sell, issue or redeem our equity securities (or those of certain of our subsidiaries) or liquidate, merge or consolidate with another person or sell or dispose of a substantial portion of our assets (or those of certain of our subsidiaries). During this two-year period, we may take certain actions prohibited by these covenants if we obtain the approval of Marriott International or we provide Marriott International with an IRS ruling or an unqualified opinion of tax counsel, acceptable to Marriott International, to the effect that these actions will not affect the tax-free nature of the distribution. These restrictions could limit our strategic and operational flexibility, including our ability to finance our operations by issuing equity securities, make acquisitions using equity securities, repurchase our equity securities, raise money by selling assets or enter into business combination transactions. We agreed to indemnify Marriott International for taxes and related losses resulting from actions we take that cause the distribution to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction. Pursuant to the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement we entered into with Marriott International, we have agreed to indemnify Marriott International for certain taxes and related losses resulting from (1) any breach of the covenants regarding the preservation of the tax-free status of the distribution and the intended tax treatment of certain related transactions undertaken in connection with the distribution, (2) certain acquisitions of our equity securities or assets or those of certain of our subsidiaries, and (3) any breach by us or any member of our group of certain of our representations in the documents submitted to the IRS and the separation documents between Marriott International and us. The amount of Marriott International’s taxes for which we have agreed to indemnify Marriott International in respect of the distribution will be based on the excess, if any, of the aggregate fair market value of our stock over Marriott International’s tax basis in our stock at the time of the distribution of our common stock in the Spin-Off. In addition, if the distribution fails to qualify as a tax-free transaction for reasons other than those specified in the Spin-Off tax indemnification provisions, liability for any resulting taxes related to the distribution will be apportioned between Marriott International and us based on the relative fair market values of Marriott International and us. In addition, Marriott International expects to recognize, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, significant built-in losses in properties used in the vacation ownership and related residential businesses. If Marriott International’s U.S. federal consolidated group is unable to deduct these losses for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and, instead, the tax basis of the properties that is attributable to the built-in losses is available to our U.S. federal consolidated group, we have agreed to indemnify Marriott International for certain lost tax benefits that Marriott International otherwise would have recognized if Marriott International’s U.S. federal consolidated group was able to deduct such losses. The amount of any future indemnification payments could be substantial. 23 Table of Contents If the distribution does not qualify for tax-free treatment at the shareholder level, our shareholders who received shares in the Spin-Off will be taxed on their receipt of our stock. The IRS could determine the distribution to be taxable even though Marriott International received a private letter ruling and an opinion from its tax counsel that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the distribution of shares of Marriott Vacations Worldwide common stock would be tax-free to Marriott International and Marriott International shareholders under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and/or 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, certain future events that may or may not be within the control of Marriott International or our company, including certain extraordinary purchases of Marriott International common stock or our common stock, could cause the distribution not to qualify as tax-free. If the distribution does not qualify for tax-free treatment at the shareholder level, our shareholders who received shares in the Spin-Off will be taxed on the full value of our shares received (without reduction for any portion of a shareholder’s tax basis in Marriott International shares) as a dividend for U.S. federal income tax purposes and possibly for purposes of U.S. state and local tax law to the extent of their pro rata share of Marriott International’s current and accumulated earnings and profits (as increased by any gain recognized by Marriott International on the distribution). The Spin-Off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal dividend requirements. The Spin-Off is subject to review under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. Fraudulent conveyance laws generally provide that an entity engages in a constructive fraudulent conveyance when (1) the entity transfers assets and does not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in return, and (2) the entity (a) is insolvent at the time of the transfer or is rendered insolvent by the transfer, (b) has unreasonably small capital with which to carry on its business, or (c) intends to incur or believes it will incur debts beyond its ability to repay its debts as they mature. An unpaid creditor or an entity acting on behalf of a creditor (including without limitation a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy by us or Marriott International or any of our respective subsidiaries) may bring a lawsuit alleging that the Spin-Off or any of the related transactions constituted a constructive fraudulent conveyance. If a court accepts these allegations, it could impose a number of remedies, including without limitation, voiding our claims against Marriott International, requiring our shareholders to return to Marriott International some or all of the shares of our common stock issued in the Spin-Off, or providing Marriott International with a claim for money damages against us in an amount equal to the difference between the consideration received by Marriott International and the fair market value of our company at the time of the Spin-Off. The measure of insolvency for purposes of the fraudulent conveyance laws will vary depending on which jurisdiction’s law is applied. Generally, an entity would be considered insolvent if (1) the present fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount of its liabilities (including contingent liabilities); (2) the present fair saleable value of its assets is less than its probable liabilities on its debts as such debts become absolute and matured; (3) it cannot pay its debts and other liabilities (including contingent liabilities and other commitments) as they mature; or (4) it has unreasonably small capital for the business in which it is engaged. We cannot provide assurance as to what standard a court would apply to determine insolvency or that a court would determine that we, Marriott International or any of our respective subsidiaries were solvent at the time of or after giving effect to the Spin-Off. The distribution of our common stock is also subject to review under state corporate distribution statutes. Under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the “DGCL”), a corporation may only pay dividends to its shareholders either (1) out of its surplus (net assets minus capital) or (2) if there is no such surplus, out of its net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. Although it was the intention of Marriott International to make the distribution of our common stock entirely from surplus, a court could later determine that some or all of the distribution to Marriott International shareholders was unlawful. The Marriott International board of directors obtained an opinion that each of us and Marriott International would be solvent at the time of the Spin-Off (including immediately after the payment of the dividend and the Spin-Off), would be able to repay its debts as they mature following the Spin-Off and would have sufficient capital to carry on its businesses and the Spin-Off and the distribution would be made entirely out of surplus in accordance with Section 170 of the DGCL. A court could reach conclusions different from those set forth in such opinion in determining whether Marriott International or we were insolvent at the time of, or after giving effect to, the Spin-Off, or whether lawful funds were available for the separation and the distribution to Marriott International’s shareholders. A court could require that we assume responsibility for obligations allocated to Marriott International under the Separation and Distribution Agreement. Under the Separation and Distribution Agreement, from and after the Spin-Off, each of us and Marriott International are responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses it owns and operates following the consummation of the Spin-Off. Although we do not expect to be liable for any obligations that were not allocated to us under the Separation and Distribution Agreement, a court could disregard the allocation agreed to between the parties, and require that we assume responsibility for obligations allocated to Marriott International (for example, tax and/or environmental liabilities), particularly if Marriott International were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform the allocated obligations. 24 Table of Contents Certain of our executive officers and directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their ownership of Marriott International equity or their current or former positions in Marriott International. Certain of our executive officers and directors are former officers and employees of Marriott International and thus have professional relationships with Marriott International’s executive officers and directors. In addition, many of our executive officers and directors have a substantial financial interest in Marriott International as a result of their ownership of Marriott International stock, options and other equity awards. These relationships and financial interests may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers face decisions that could have different implications for Marriott International than for us. In addition, one of our Board members, Deborah Marriott Harrison, is employed by Marriott International and is also the daughter of the chairman of the board of directors of Marriott International. These facts may also create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. Our common stock has a limited trading history. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; • success or failure of our business strategy; • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; • our ability to obtain financing as needed; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant new business developments or significant acquisitions or dispositions; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • the failure of securities analysts to continue to cover our common stock; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • investor perception of our company and the vacation ownership industry; • overall market fluctuations; • initiation of or developments in legal proceedings; • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and • general economic conditions and other external factors. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law and in our agreements with Marriott International could delay or prevent a change in control. Provisions of our Charter and Bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable. For example, our Charter and Bylaws provide for a classified board, require advance notice for shareholder proposals and nominations, place limitations on convening shareholder meetings and authorize our Board to issue one or more series of preferred stock. The holders of the preferred stock issued by our subsidiary MVW US Holdings have the right to require MVW US Holdings to redeem the preferred stock if we sell all or substantially all of our assets or MVW US Holdings sells all or substantially all of its assets or completes a change of control, as defined in the terms of the preferred stock. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. In addition, Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock and us. In addition, provisions in our agreements with Marriott International may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable. Under the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement, we agreed not to enter into any 25 Table of Contents transaction involving an acquisition or issuance of our common stock or any other transaction (or, to the extent we have the right to prohibit it, to permit any such transaction) that could reasonably be expected to cause the distribution of our common stock to be taxable to Marriott International. We are required to indemnify Marriott International for any tax resulting from any such prohibited transaction, and we are required to meet various requirements, including obtaining the approval of Marriott International or obtaining an IRS ruling or unqualified opinion of tax counsel acceptable to Marriott International, before engaging in such transactions. Further, our License Agreements with Marriott International and Ritz-Carlton provide that a change in control may not occur without the consent of Marriott International or Ritz-Carlton, respectively. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 