D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We operate in a fast-evolving industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We commenced operations in 2005 and many of the elements of our business are evolving and relatively unproven. The markets for our technology and products and services are relatively new and rapidly developing and are subject to significant challenges. Our business plan relies heavily upon growing our user base and exploring new market opportunities, and we may not succeed in any of these respects. As the online marketing services and mobile services industries in China are relatively young and untested, there are few proven methods of projecting user demand or available industry standards on which we can rely. We cannot assure you that our attempts to expand our user base and products and services will be successful, profitable or widely accepted and therefore the future revenue and income potential of our business are difficult to evaluate. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties fast-growing companies with limited operating histories may encounter. If we fail to continually anticipate user preferences and provide attractive services on our online marketplace, we may not be able to grow and retain our user base. Our success depends on our ability to grow and retain our user base. In order to attract and retain users and compete against our direct competitors and other industry or content-specific vertical websites, we must continue to innovate and introduce services that our users find useful and attract them to use our online marketplace more frequently and become our paying users. For example, we must continue to develop new content categories on our online marketplace that appeal to our users. The popularity of online marketing services and other internet services is difficult to predict, and we cannot be certain that the services we offer will continue to be popular with our users or sufficiently successful to offset the costs incurred to offer these services. Given that we operate in a rapidly evolving industry in China, we need to continually anticipate user preferences and industry changes and respond to such changes in a timely and effective manner. If we fail to anticipate and meet the needs of our users, the size of our user base may decrease. A decrease in our user base would render our online marketplace less attractive to merchants and may reduce our membership and online marketing revenues, which may have a material and adverse effect on our marketing business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to retain existing or attract new local merchants to use our online marketplace and pay for our membership and online marketing services, our business, financial condition and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. The success of our business depends on our ability to attract and retain local merchants that provide information on our online marketplace to consumers and pay for our membership and online marketing services and to offer attractive products and services to our consumer users. If we are unable to grow and maintain a healthy ecosystem of local merchants, our users may find our online marketplace to be less useful than expected and may not continue to use our online marketplace. This in turn may affect our ability to attract new merchants and convince existing merchants to renew their paid memberships or increase their level of spending on our services. Our membership contracts have terms ranging from one month to one year. A significant portion of our paying merchant members are small and medium-sized local merchants who fail to renew their membership contracts upon expiration for a number of reasons. The competitive landscape of such local merchants changes quickly and may have temporary recruiting or marketing needs from time to time. In addition, our efforts to provide greater incentives for our existing paying merchant members to use our online marketing services, including marketing activities to highlight the value of differentiated paying 4 TABLE OF CONTENTS merchant members-only services, may not be successful. Our customers may terminate their memberships or other spending on our online marketing services because we no longer serve their needs or because their demands can be better fulfilled by our competitors or other service providers. Decisions by our customers not to renew their memberships or not to use our online marketing services could reduce our revenues, as well as cause us to incur additional cost in attracting new paying merchant members and other customers. A significant increase in local merchant attrition or decrease in local merchant spending on our services would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We incurred net loss and experienced negative cash flow from operations in the past. We may not be able to maintain profitability or positive net cash flow from operations. We have incurred net losses historically and we may incur losses in the future as we grow our business. In 2012, we incurred net loss of US$30.4 million. In addition, we had negative cash flow from operations of US$4.7 million in 2012. We generated net income of US$19.6 million and US$22.6 million, and had positive cash flow from operations of US$66.3 million and US$98.6 million in 2013 and 2014, respectively. Our historical net loss and negative cash flow from operations are primarily related to sales and marketing expenses, research and development expenses, and other costs and expenses we incurred to build, operate and expand our online marketplace, grow our user base and establish our market position. We expect that we will continue to incur marketing and sales, research and development and other expenses to launch new services and grow our user base, which may affect our profitability and operating cash flow in the future. Our future profitability may also be significantly impacted by the success of our recent and new service offerings, such as our mobile services and 58 Home services. As competition in these new services intensifies in China, we may choose to invest heavily to gain market share, which may adversely affect our profitability. In addition, our ability to achieve or maintain profitability is affected by various factors that are beyond our control. For example, our revenues and profitability depend on the continuous development of the online marketing industry in China and local merchants’ allocation of more of their budgets to online marketing services companies. We cannot assure you that online marketing services companies will become more widely accepted in China or that merchants will increase their spending on online marketing services websites. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business may be materially and adversely affected and we may incur net loss in the future. If we are unable to maintain positive operating cash flows, we may need to seek debt or equity financing or may cease to operate as a going concern. Further equity financings may dilute our existing shareholders. We face intense competition, and if we do not compete successfully against existing and new competitors, we may lose market share and suffer losses. We face intense competition. Our competitors in the online marketing space include other smaller multi-category online classifieds companies as well as industry or content-specific vertical websites whose information serve the same underlying industries as certain content categories of our online marketplace. We may also face competition from major internet companies, who may enter the online classifieds market in China. We compete primarily on the basis of user traffic, effectiveness of services in reaching targeted users, ability to demonstrate marketing results and customer service capabilities. We believe that our competitiveness depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including our ability to increase our brand recognition and continue to develop user loyalty, our ability to keep up with the technological developments and users’ changing demands and our ability to raise sufficient capital to sustain and expand our business. For example, we may have to increase our sales and marketing expenses from time to time to promote our brand, especially when the competition is intense. Some of our current and potential competitors may have greater financial, marketing, user traffic and other resources than we have. In addition, local content providers may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into strategic relationships with larger, well-established and well-financed companies or investors. Certain of our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns and devote substantially more resources to website and system development than us. Increased competition may reduce our market share and require us to increase our marketing and promotion efforts, which could negatively affect our operating margins or force us to incur losses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS successfully against current and future competitors or maintain our leading position or level of user traffic in the online marketing services market in China, and competitive pressures may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth and expansion or implement our business strategies, in which case our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We have experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion, which has placed, and continues to place, significant strain on our management and resources. We cannot assure you that this level of significant growth and expansion will be sustainable or achieved at all in the future. We believe that our continued growth and expansion will depend on our ability to develop new sources of revenue, attract new users, paying merchant members and customers, retain and expand paying merchant members and customers, encourage additional spending by our customers, continue developing innovative technologies in response to user demand, increase brand awareness through marketing and promotional activities, react to changes in user access to and use of the internet, expand into new market segments, integrate new devices, platforms and operating systems and take advantage of any growth in the relevant markets. We cannot assure you that we will achieve any of the above. To manage our growth and expansion, and to attain and maintain profitability, we anticipate that we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including the improvement of our accounting and other internal management systems. We will also need to further expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce and manage our relationships with our paying merchant members and customers. All of these endeavors involve risks and will require substantial management efforts and skills and significant additional expenditures. Our further expansion may divert our management, operational or technological resources from our existing business operations. In addition, our expansion may require us to operate in new cities in China, including a number of small cities in China, where we may have difficulty in adjusting to local market demands and regulatory requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage our growth and expansion or implement our future business strategies effectively, and failure to do so may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any damage to our reputation and brand or failure to enhance our brand recognition may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the market recognition and reputation of our brand have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing our brand is critical to our success and ability to compete. Many factors, some of which are beyond our control, may negatively impact our brand and reputation, such as: • any failure to maintain a pleasant and reliable experience for users as their preferences evolve and as we expand into new services; • any decrease in brand awareness among our existing and potential users; and • any negative publicity about us or online marketing services or mobile services in general, including any actual or perceived security or product or service quality problems involving online marketing services providers in China. Although all of our paying merchant members and a portion of our registered users go through certain verification procedures, fraudulent transactions and sale of counterfeit or pirated, as well as faulty or defective, items through our online marketplace have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. In the past, we found several counterfeit products sold through our website primarily relating to our group buying business, which we significantly scaled back since mid-2012, and immediately stopped the sellers from selling such counterfeit products. Although we do not believe that we are responsible for the sellers’ wrongdoings, several Chinese media reported the incidents and accused us of failure to safeguard buyers’ rights on our website. These incidents and any similar incidents or true or untrue claims of such incidents could harm our reputation, impair our ability to attract and retain users and grow our base of paying customers. If we are unable to 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS maintain a good reputation, further enhance our brand recognition, continue to develop our user loyalty and increase positive awareness of our website, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We have incurred significant costs on a variety of marketing efforts, including significant advertising expenses, designed to attract users, and some marketing campaigns and methods may turn out to be ineffective. We have invested significantly in marketing to promote public awareness of online marketing services, enhance our brand recognition and drive user growth, including incurring US$25.1 million, US$22.7 million and US$73.4 million in advertising expenses in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. Such advertising expenses represented 32.8%, 26.9% and 40.8% of our total sales and marketing expenses and 28.8%, 15.6% and 27.7% of our revenues in the corresponding periods. Our marketing activities may not be well received by users and may not attract the additional traffic that we anticipated. The evolving marketing approaches and tools require us to enhance our marketing approaches and experiment with new marketing methods to keep pace with industry developments and user preferences. Failure to refine our existing marketing approaches or to introduce new effective marketing approaches in a cost-effective manner could reduce our market share, cause our revenues to decline and negatively impact our profitability. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from five of China’s major cities and we face market risk due to our concentration in these major urban areas. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from five of China’s major cities: Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Guangzhou and Chengdu. We expect these five cities to continue to be important sources of revenues in all of our content categories. If any of these major cities experience events which negatively impact the internet industry, such as a serious economic downturn or contraction, a natural disaster, or slower economic growth due to adverse governmental policies or otherwise, demand for our services could decline significantly and our revenues and profitability could be materially reduced. Any of these cities may experience decreases in demand for services related to specific content categories on our marketplace, such as housing or automotive, due to local policies, regulations or economic conditions. In addition, if a competitor, including a local competitor whose business focuses on one of these cities, were to gain significant market share in any of these cities, our revenues may be materially and adversely affected. The markets for online marketing services and mobile services in China are constantly evolving and may not grow as quickly as expected or at all. Our business and prospects are affected by the development of emerging internet business models in China, including those for online marketing services and mobile services. Our membership services and other online marketing services have distinct business models which may differ from models for these businesses in other markets, such as the United States, and that are in varying stages of development and monetization. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to rapidly changing technologies, adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our products and services. Our failure to adapt to such changes could harm our business. In addition, changes in user behavior resulting from technological developments may also adversely affect us. We cannot assure you that the online marketing services and mobile services industries in China will continue to grow as rapidly as they have in the past or at all. With the development of technology, new internet services may emerge which are not a part of our service offerings and which may render online marketing services or mobile services less attractive to users. The growth and development of these industries are affected by numerous factors, such as the macroeconomic environment, regulatory changes, technological innovations, development of internet and internet-based services, users’ general online experience, cultural influences and changes in tastes and preferences. If the online marketing services and mobile services industries in China do not grow as quickly as expected or at all, or if we fail to benefit from such growth by successfully implementing our business strategies, our business and prospects may be adversely affected. 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we fail to keep up with the technological developments and users’ changing requirements or to successfully capture and retain a significant portion of the growing number of users that access online marketing services, we may be unable to meet our revenue growth expectations and our results of operation may be adversely affected. The internet industries in China are subject to rapid and continuous changes in technology, user preferences, the nature of services offered and business models. Our success will depend on our ability to keep up with the changes in technology and user behavior resulting from technological developments. If we do not adapt our services to such changes in an effective and timely manner, we may suffer from decreased user traffic, which may result in a reduction of revenues from our membership services or a decrease in spending on our other services. Our online marketing services are now accessible to users from many internet-enabled devices, and we offer versions of our services for mobile operating systems, including Android and iOS. An important element of our strategy is to continue to develop our online marketplace and services for mobile devices to capture a greater share of the growing number of users that access online marketing services and other internet services through smartphones and other mobile devices. The lower resolution, functionality and memory associated with some mobile devices make the use of services through such devices more difficult and the services we develop for these devices may fail to prove compelling to users. Manufacturers or distributors may establish unique technical standards for their devices, and our services may not work or be viewable on these devices as a result. As new devices and new services are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing our services for use on these devices and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support and maintenance of such services. Devices providing access to our products and services are not manufactured and sold by us, and we cannot assure you that the companies manufacturing or selling these devices would always ensure that their devices perform reliably and are maximally compatible with our systems. Any faulty connection between these devices and our products and services may result in consumer dissatisfaction with us, which could damage our brand and have a material and adverse effect on our financial results. Furthermore, new online marketing services may emerge which are specifically created to function on mobile platforms, as compared to our online marketing services that were originally designed to be accessed through personal computers, or PCs, and such new services may operate more effectively through mobile devices than our own. If we are unable to attract and retain a substantial number of mobile device users to our services, or if we are slower than our competitors in developing attractive services that are adapted for such devices, we may fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market for our services or lose existing users, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, changes in technologies may require substantial capital expenditures in development of new features, applications and services as well as in modification of existing features, applications, services or infrastructure. We may not successfully execute our business strategies due to a variety of reasons such as technical hurdles, misunderstandings or erroneous predictions of market demand or lack of necessary resources. Failure in keeping up with technological developments may result in our online marketplace being less attractive, and as a result we may be unable to meet our revenue growth expectations and our results of operations may be adversely affected. If internet search engines’ ranking methodologies are modified or our search result page rankings decline for other reasons, our user traffic could decrease. We depend in part on various internet companies to direct traffic to our website. Our ability to maintain the number of visitors directed to our website is not entirely within our control. Our competitors’ search engine optimization efforts may result in their websites receiving a higher search result page ranking than ours, or internet companies could revise their methodologies in an attempt to improve their search results, which could adversely affect the placement of our search result page ranking. If internet companies modify their search algorithms in ways that are detrimental to our user growth or in ways that make it harder for our users to find our website, or if our competitors’ search engine optimization efforts are more successful than ours, our overall growth in user traffic could slowdown or decrease, and we could lose existing users. Our 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS website has experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past, and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. Any reduction in the number of users directed to our website would harm our business and results of operations. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and key employees, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. We currently depend on the continued services and performance of the key members of our management team, in particular Mr. Jinbo Yao, our chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Yao is one of our founders and his leadership has played an integral role in our growth. Our future success depends substantially on the continued efforts of our executive officers and key employees. If one or more of our executive officers or key employees were unable or unwilling to continue their service, we might not be able to replace them easily, in a timely manner, or at all, and our business may be severely disrupted, our financial conditions and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected and we may incur additional expenses to recruit, train and retain personnel. If any of our executive officers or key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose users, know-how and key professionals and staff members. Each of our executive officers and key employees has entered into an employment agreement and a confidentiality and non-competition agreement with us. However, if any dispute arises between our executive officers and key employees, on one hand, and us on the other, we cannot assure you that we would be able to enforce these non-compete provisions in China, where these executive officers reside, in light of uncertainties with the PRC legal system. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, particularly management, technical and marketing personnel with expertise in the online marketing industry. Our field sales and customer service teams are also critical to maintaining the quality of our services as they interact with local merchants on a daily basis. We must continue to attract qualified personnel at a fast pace to keep up with our growing user base and the scale of our operations. Since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain qualified staff or other highly skilled employees that we will need to achieve our strategic objectives. As we are still a relatively young company, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the growing demands of our business. If we are unable to attract, train, and retain qualified personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Future strategic alliances or acquisitions may have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations. We may enter into strategic alliances with various third parties to further our business purposes from time to time. For example, in June 2014, we entered into a strategic partnership with Tencent Holdings Limited, or Tencent, a leading provider of comprehensive Internet services in China, pursuant to which Tencent invested US$736.1 million in exchange for approximately 19.9% equity interest in our company on a fully-diluted basis. Strategic alliances with third parties could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information, non-performance by the counter-party, and an increase in expenses incurred in establishing new strategic alliances, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, to the extent the strategic partner suffers negative publicity or harm to their reputation from events relating to their business, we may also suffer negative publicity or harm to our reputation by virtue of our association with such third parties, and we may have little ability to control or monitor their actions. In addition, after our IPO in October 2013, we have made several acquisitions and investments, among which the major ones are the acquisition of a strategic stake in Ganji.com, for approximately 34 million new ordinary shares (two Class A ordinary shares equivalent to one ADS) of our company and US$412.2 million in cash in April 2015, acquisition of Anjuke.com Inc. for approximately five million new ordinary shares (two 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS Class A ordinary shares equivalent to one ADS) of our company and US$160.2 million in cash in March 2015 and investments in To8to for approximately US$33.7 million in March 2015, acquisition of Jiaxiao Yidiantong, a website that provides driving test information and services for US$22.8 million in April 2015 and investment in Edaijia for US$20.0 million in October 2014. We may invest in or acquire additional assets, products, technologies or businesses that are complementary to our existing business. Future investments, acquisitions and the subsequent integration of new assets and businesses into our own would require significant attention from our management and could result in a diversion of resources from our existing business, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business operations. Invested or acquired assets or businesses may not generate the financial results we expect and may adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, investments and acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the occurrence of significant goodwill impairment charges, amortization expenses for other intangible assets and exposure to potential unknown liabilities of the acquired businesses. Moreover, the costs of identifying and consummating acquisitions may be significant. Furthermore, the legal requirements on acquisitions by us and our PRC subsidiaries are different from acquisitions by our consolidated affiliated entities. Most importantly, if we or our PRC subsidiaries acquire any domestic companies in China, such acquisition will be subject to PRC laws and regulations on foreign investment. We and our PRC subsidiaries are restricted or prohibited from directly acquiring interests in companies in certain industries under PRC laws and regulations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Regulations on Value-Added Telecommunication Services.” Our consolidated affiliated entities are not subject to PRC laws and regulations on foreign investment and may acquire PRC companies operating in industries where foreign investments are restricted or prohibited. However, there are uncertainties with respect to the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations regarding indirect foreign investments in such industries. See “— Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure and Restrictions on Our Industry — Substantial uncertainties and restrictions exist with respect to the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations relating to online commerce and the distribution of internet content in China. If the PRC government finds that the structure we have adopted for our business operations does not comply with PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties, including the shutting down of our website.” The proper functioning of our marketplace, network infrastructure and information technology systems is essential to our business, and any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, security and integrity of our systems will materially and adversely impair our ability to provide services and affect our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. The proper functioning of our marketplace is essential to the conduct of our business. Specifically, the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our website and mobile applications, our transaction-processing systems and our network infrastructure are critical to our success and our ability to attract and retain users and provide adequate services. Our revenues depend on the user traffic on our website and the volume of activities that traffic creates. In addition, our ability to provide consumers and local merchants with a high quality online experience depends on the continuing operation and scalability of our network infrastructure and information technology systems. The risks we face in this area include: • our systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption as a result of earthquakes, floods, fires, extreme temperatures, power loss, telecommunications failures, technical error, computer viruses, hacking and similar events; • we may encounter problems when upgrading our systems or services and undetected programming errors could adversely affect the performance of the software we use to provide our services. The development and implementation of software upgrades and other improvements to our internet services is a complex process, and issues not identified during pre-launch testing of new services may only become evident when such services are made available to our entire user base; and • we rely on servers, data centers and other network facilities provided by third parties, and the limited availability of third-party providers with sufficient capacity to house additional network 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS facilities and broadband capacity in China may lead to higher costs or limit our ability to offer certain services or expand our business. In particular, electricity, temperature control or other failures at the data centers we use may adversely affect the operation of our servers or result in service interruptions or data loss. These and other events in the past occasionally led to and may in the future lead to interruptions, decreases in connection speed, degradation of our services or the permanent loss of user data and uploaded content. Any system interruptions caused by telecommunications failures, computer viruses, or hacking or other attempts to harm our systems that result in the unavailability of our website and mobile applications or reduced performance would reduce the attractiveness of the services offered on our online marketplace. If we experience frequent or persistent service disruptions, whether caused by failures of our own systems or those of third-party service providers, our reputation or relationships with our users may be damaged and our users may switch to our competitors, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on the performance of the internet infrastructure and fixed telecommunications networks in China. Almost all access to the internet in China is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT. Moreover, we primarily rely on a limited number of telecommunication service providers to provide us with data communications capacity through local telecommunications lines and internet data centers to host our servers. We have limited access to alternative networks or services in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with the PRC internet infrastructure or the fixed telecommunications networks provided by telecommunication service providers. With the expansion of our business, we may be required to upgrade our technology and infrastructure to keep up with the increasing traffic on our website. We cannot assure you that the internet infrastructure and the fixed telecommunications networks in China will be able to support the demands associated with the continued growth in internet usage. In addition, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by telecommunication service providers. If the prices we pay for telecommunications and internet services rise significantly, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, if internet access fees or other charges to internet users increase, our user traffic may decline and our business may be harmed. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could harm our business and competitive position. We regard our trademarks, service marks, domain names, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. As of March 31, 2015, we have registered 31 domain names that are material to our business, including www.58.com, www.58.com.cn, anjuke.cn and anjuke.com, and 65 trademarks in China. As the registrant of the trademarks, Beijing 58 has an exclusive right to use such trademarks in China for the goods or services under the trademark categories that it has registered. Beijing 58 also enjoys the exclusive right to use the domain names that it has registered. However, trademarks may also be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. For example, under PRC law, certain graphics may not be registered as a trademark and if a registered trademark is found to violate such prohibition, the relevant authority can invalidate the trademark; third parties may challenge such registered trademarks and apply to the authority for invalidation. In addition, if a registered trademark is identical or similar to a well-known trademark or prejudices the existing right obtained by others, it may be invalidated by the relevant authority upon request by the right holder. Trade secrets are difficult to protect, and our trade secrets may be leaked or otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. Confidentiality agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. It is often difficult to enforce intellectual property rights in China. Even where adequate laws exist in China, it may not be possible to obtain prompt and equitable enforcement of such laws, or to obtain enforcement of a court judgment or an arbitration award delivered in another jurisdiction, and accordingly, we 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in China. Policing any unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly and the steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our technologies. We may not be able to successfully halt the operations of websites that aggregate our data as well as data from other companies, including social networks, or “copycat” websites that have misappropriated our data in the past or may misappropriate our data in the future. From time to time, third parties have misappropriated our data through website scraping, robots or other means and aggregated this data on their websites. In addition, “copycat” websites have misappropriated data on our website and attempted to imitate our brand or the functionality of our website. When we have become aware of such websites, we have taken measures to halt such conduct. However, we may not be able to detect all such websites in a timely manner and the measures we take may be insufficient to stop their conduct. In those cases, our available remedies may not be adequate to protect us against such websites. Regardless of whether we can successfully enforce our rights against these websites, any measures that we may take could require us to expend significant financial or other resources. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims or other allegations by third parties for services we provide or for information or content displayed on, retrieved from or linked to our website, or distributed to our users, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and prospects. Internet, technology and media companies are frequently involved in litigation based on allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights, unfair competition, invasion of privacy, defamation and other violations of other parties’ rights. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related industries, particularly in China, are uncertain and still evolving. We face, from time to time, and expect to face in the future, allegations that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including our competitors, or allegations that we are involved in unfair competition against our competitors. As we face increasing competition and sometimes have to take defensive measures in response to competitive pressure and as litigation become more common in China in resolving commercial disputes, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement and unfair competition claims. Intellectual property and unfair competition claims and litigation may be expensive and time-consuming to investigate and defend, and may divert resources and management attention from the operation of our business. Such claims, even if they do not result in liability, may harm our reputation. Any resulting liability or expenses, or changes required to be made to our website to reduce the risk of future liability, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. We utilize software that selectively identifies classified information listings on other websites in certain content categories for which our certification procedure is not required and replicates such listings on www.58.com. These replicated listings are not given individualized registered user accounts and are not counted as listings for purposes of calculating the listings per day posted by our users as disclosed in this annual report. If an original poster wants to delete a replicated listing on our website, the poster can either use our online self-help functions or contact our customer service online to delete the listing. We do not explicitly indicate the replicated listings on our website, although we notify our users of the replicated nature of the listings upon inquiry. We believe this is a widespread practice in our industry in China. However, the practice may be deemed to be in violation of the PRC Anti-Unfair Competition Law. If other market participants bring legal claims against us for conducting unfair competition, we may be held liable by the court and be required to pay damages to the plaintiffs equal to the losses suffered by the market participants as a result of the unfair competition practices or, if it is difficult to calculate the losses, equal to the aggregate profits earned through the unfair competition practices and the reasonable expenses incurred by the plaintiffs to investigate the unfair competition practices. We have never generated revenue from replicated listings. In addition, if the replicated listings are protected under copyright law, the practice of replicating listings may be deemed to be copyright infringement. In such case, we may be required to cease the act of infringement, eliminate any influence caused, apologize to and pay damages to the copyright owners and be subject to penalties including confiscation of illegal gains and imposition of fines by the relevant governmental authorities. In addition, we have from time to time been the subject of critical media coverage due to this practice, which could harm our reputation and business. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be held liable to third parties for information or content displayed on, retrieved from or linked to our website, or distributed to website users, which could harm our reputation and business. Our online marketing services enable users to exchange local business or service information, generate content, market products and services, conduct business and engage in various other online activities. Claims may be brought against us for defamation, libel, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement, tort (including personal injury), fraud, other unlawful activity or other theories and claims based on the nature and content of information to which we link or that may be posted on our website, generated by our users, or delivered or shared hypertext links to third-party websites, or video or image services, if appropriate licenses and/or third-party consents have not been obtained. Third-parties may also seek to assert claims against us alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy rights or failure to maintain the confidentiality of user data. Our defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources. We are also regularly approached and asked to remove content uploaded by users on the grounds of alleged copyright or personal rights infringement. In such cases, we investigate the claims and remove any uploads that appear to infringe the rights of a third party after our reasonable investigation and determination. Our corporate policy requires a user to enter into a user agreement in the registration process before posting any content on our website. Pursuant to the user agreement, a user makes certain representations and warranties relating to the user generated content on our website. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Content Management and Monitoring.” However, we have been and in the future may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims or other allegations by third parties for services provided or content displayed on our website. Although we believe that we will have recourse to indemnification from alleged infringing users on the basis of the user agreement, such right to recourse is subject to the enforcement mechanism of PRC legal system, which may not be effective. Our data security team also screens our website to eliminate content that we believe may infringe copyrights. Although our internal policy, terms of our user agreements and the screening system are designed to help limit the occurrences and impact of infringing activities, they may not be effective in eliminating such occurrences or dissemination of infringing materials on our website. Pursuant to PRC national and Beijing local regulations and judicial interpretations, online service providers that provide information storage space for users to upload works or link services may be held liable for damages if such providers know or have reason to know that the works uploaded or linked infringe others’ copyrights. The Supreme People’s Court of China promulgated a judicial interpretation on infringement of the right of dissemination through internet in December 2012. This judicial interpretation, like certain court rulings and certain other judicial interpretations, provide that the courts will place the burden on internet service providers to remove not only links or contents that have been specifically mentioned in the notices of infringement from right holders, but also links or contents they should have known to contain infringing content. The interpretation further provides that where an internet service provider has directly obtained economic benefits from any contents made available by an internet user, it has a higher duty of care with respect to internet users’ infringement of third-party copyrights. This interpretation could subject us and other online service providers to significant administrative burdens and litigation risks. Concerns about collection and use of personal data could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our services. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. Pursuant to the applicable PRC laws and regulations concerning the collection, use and sharing of personal data, our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities are required to keep our users’ personal information confidential and are prohibited from disclosing such information to any third parties without the users’ consent. We apply strict management and protection to any information provided by users, and under our privacy policy, without our users’ prior consent, we will not provide any of our users’ personal information to any unrelated third party. In December 2012 and July 2013, new laws and regulations were issued by the standing committee of the PRC National People’s Congress and the MIIT to enhance the legal protection of information security and privacy on the internet. The laws and regulations also require internet operators to take measures to ensure confidentiality of information of users. While we strive to comply with our privacy 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS guidelines as well as all applicable data protection laws and regulations, any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, and could damage our reputation. User and regulatory attitudes towards privacy are evolving, and future regulatory or user concerns about the extent to which personal information is shared with merchants or others may adversely affect our ability to share certain data with merchants, which may limit certain methods of targeted marketing. Concerns about the security of personal data could also lead to a decline in general internet usage, which could lead to lower user traffic on our website. A significant reduction in user traffic could lead to lower revenues from paying users, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be liable for any breach of security relating to the third-party online payment platforms we use, and concerns about the security of internet transactions could damage our reputation, deter current and potential users from using our online marketplace and have other adverse consequences to our business. Users may conduct transactions on our online marketplace through third-party online payment platforms. In these online payment transactions, secured transmission of confidential information, such as customers’ credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, over public networks is essential to maintain consumer confidence. In addition, we expect that an increasing amount of our sales and transactions conducted on our online marketplace will be conducted over the internet as a result of the growing use of online payment platforms. As the prevalence of using online payment methods increases, associated online crimes will likely increase as well. Our current security measures and those of the third-party online payment platform service providers may not be adequate. We must be prepared to increase and enhance our security measures and efforts so that our users have confidence in the reliability of the online payment platforms that we use, which will impose additional costs and expenses and may still not guarantee complete safety. In addition, we do not have control over the security measures of our third-party online payment platform service providers. Security breaches of the online payment platforms that we use could expose us to litigation and possible liability for failing to secure confidential user information and could, among other things, damage our reputation. A significant barrier to financial transactions or other electronic payment processing platforms over the internet in general has been public concern over the security of online payments. If these concerns are not adequately addressed, they may inhibit the growth of paid online services generally. If an internet or mobile network security breach were to occur and get publicized, the perceived security of the online payment platforms may be damaged, and users concerned about the security of their transactions may become reluctant to purchase our services even if the publicized breach did not involve payment platforms or methods used by us. If any of the above were to occur and damage our reputation or the perceived security of the online payment platforms that we use, we may lose users and user traffic, and users may be discouraged from purchasing our services, which may have an adverse effect on our business. Any significant reduction in user traffic could lead to lower revenues from membership and online marketing services. Spammers and malicious applications may make our services less user-friendly and discourage users from using our website or services. Spammers may use our website and services to send targeted and untargeted spam messages to users, which may embarrass or annoy users and make usage of our website and services more time-consuming and less user-friendly. As a result, our users may use our services less or stop using them altogether. As part of fraudulent spamming activities, spammers typically create multiple user accounts, such as accounts being set-up for the purposes of sending spam messages. Although we have technologies and employees that attempt to identify and delete accounts created for spamming purposes, we are not able to eliminate all spam messages from being sent on our website. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to obtain financing, may be adversely affected by the downturn in the global or Chinese economy. The online information services and mobile services industries may be affected by economic downturns. Thus, our business and prospects may be affected by the macroeconomic environment in China. A prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy may lead to a reduced amount of activities on our marketplace, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our products and services may be viewed as discretionary by our users, who may choose to discontinue or reduce spending on such products and services during an economic downturn. In such an event, our ability to retain existing paying merchant members and customers and recruiting new paying merchant members and customers will be adversely affected, which would in turn negatively impact our business and results of operations. Moreover, a slowdown or disruption in the global or China’s economy may have a material and adverse impact on financings available to us. The weakness in the economy could erode investors’ confidence, which constitutes the basis of the credit market. The recent financial turmoil affecting the financial markets and banking system may significantly restrict our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets or from financial institutions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Although we are uncertain about the extent to which the recent global financial and economic crisis and slowdown of China’s economy may impact our business in the short-term and long-term, there is a risk that our business, results of operations and prospects would be materially and adversely affected by any global economic downturn or disruption or slowdown of China’s economy. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. For example, in June 2014 and April 2015, we issued 36,805,000 ordinary shares at the equivalent of US$20 per ordinary share and 15,384,616 ordinary shares at the equivalent of US$26 per ordinary share, respectively, to a holding vehicle of Tencent Holdings Limited, or Tencent. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. It is uncertain whether financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately or timely report our results of operations or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Our independent registered public accounting firm conducted an audit of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014. Our management also assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014. We and our independent registered public accounting firm identified one “material weakness” in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board of the United States, or PCAOB. The material weakness identified related to the lack of sufficient accounting personnel to perform the reconciliation controls over advertising expenses related accounts. Although we have taken measures and plan to continue to take measures to remedy these deficiencies, the implementation of these measures may not fully address these deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, and we cannot conclude that they have been fully remedied. Our failure to correct these control deficiencies or our failure to discover and address any other control deficiencies could result in inaccuracies in our financial statements and could also impair our ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and related regulatory filings on a timely basis. As a result, our business, financial 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs, may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, ineffective internal control over financial reporting significantly hinders our ability to prevent fraud. In addition, after we become a public company, our reporting obligations may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. We may be unable to timely complete our evaluation testing and any required remediation. During the course of documenting and testing our internal control procedures, in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404, we may identify other weaknesses and deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as these standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we fail to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, we could suffer material misstatements in our financial statements and fail to meet our reporting obligations, which would likely cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This could in turn limit our access to capital markets, harm our results of operations, and lead to a decline in the trading price of our ADSs. Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could expose us to increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and subject us to potential delisting from the stock exchange on which we list, regulatory investigations and civil or criminal sanctions. We may also be required to restate our financial statements from prior periods. We have granted employee share options and other share-based awards in the past and will continue to do so in the future. We recognize share-based compensation expenses in our consolidated statement of comprehensive income/(loss) in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Any additional grant of employee share options and other share-based awards in the future may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. We adopted an employee stock option plan in 2010, or the 2010 Plan, and a share incentive plan in 2013, or the 2013 Plan, for the purpose of granting share-based compensation awards to employees, directors and consultants to incentivize their performance and align their interests with ours. Under the 2010 Plan, we are permitted to issue options to purchase up to 20,173,225 ordinary shares. Under the 2013 Plan, we are authorized to grant options, restricted shares, restricted share units or other awards to purchase up to 12,445,628 or more ordinary shares as of April 20, 2015, including the automatic increase of 2,645,628 ordinary shares pursuant to the terms of the 2013 Plan and a recent increase of 7,000,000 ordinary shares in connection with our investment in Ganji. As of March 31, 2015, restricted share units and options to purchase 2,328,823 ordinary shares were issued and outstanding under the 2013 Plan, and 5,668,318 options to purchase 5,668,318 ordinary shares were issued and outstanding under the 2010 Plan. 58 Daojia Inc., or 58 Daojia, a wholly owned subsidiary of ours, adopted a share incentive plan in 2015 and granted options and restricted shares under that plan to certain of our employees. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — B. Compensation.” We may grant substantial additional share-based awards in connection with our acquisition of or investment in Ganji and other companies. As a result of these grants and potential future grants, we incurred in the past and expect to continue to incur in future periods significant share-based compensation expenses. The amount of share-based compensation expenses is based on the fair value of the share-based awards. We account for compensation costs for all share-based awards using a fair-value based method and recognize expenses in our consolidated statement of comprehensive income/(loss) in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The expenses associated with share-based compensation will increase our net loss or decrease our net income, perhaps materially, and the additional securities issued under share-based compensation plans will dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. However, if we limit the scope of our share-based compensation plan, we may not be able to attract or retain key personnel who are expected to be compensated by incentive shares or options. We have limited business insurance coverage. Insurance companies in China currently do not offer as extensive an array of insurance products as insurance companies do in more developed economies. Except for the property insurance and third-party liability insurance purchased by Wanglin, we do not have any business liability or disruption insurance to 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS cover our operations. We have determined that the costs of insuring for these risks and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. Any uninsured occurrence of business disruption may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to renew our current leases or locate desirable alternatives for our facilities could materially and adversely affect our business. In September 2014, we have entered into an agreement to purchase approximately 45,000 square meters of office space in Chaoyang District, Beijing, which will be used for our company’s new corporate headquarters. However, approximately 37% of the total new office space will not be ready for occupancy until October 2015, and the remaining space will not be ready for occupancy until July 2016. As a result, all of our offices and data centers are presently located on leased premises. At the end of each lease term, we may not be able to negotiate an extension of the lease and may therefore be forced to move to a different location, or the rent we pay may increase significantly. This could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our profitability. We compete with other businesses for premises at certain locations or of desirable sizes and some landlords may have entered into long-term leases with our competitors for such premises. As a result, we may not be able to obtain new leases at desirable locations or renew our existing leases on acceptable terms or at all, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure and Restrictions on Our Industry Substantial uncertainties and restrictions exist with respect to the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations relating to online commerce and the distribution of internet content in China. If the PRC government finds that the structure we have adopted for our business operations does not comply with PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties, including the shutting down of our website. Foreign ownership of internet-based businesses is subject to significant restrictions under current PRC laws and regulations. The PRC government regulates internet access, the distribution of online information and the conduct of online commerce through strict business licensing requirements and other government regulations. These laws and regulations also include limitations on foreign ownership in PRC companies that provide internet content distribution services. Specifically, foreign investors are not allowed to own more than 50% of the equity interests in any entity conducting an internet content distribution business. The Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in and Operation of Value-added Telecommunications Business, or the MIIT Circular, issued by the MIIT in July 2006, reiterated the regulations on foreign investment in telecommunications businesses, which require foreign investors to set up foreign-invested enterprises and obtain business operating licenses for internet content provision to conduct any value-added telecommunications business in China. Under the MIIT Circular, a domestic company that holds an internet content provision license, or ICP license, is prohibited from leasing, transferring or selling the license to foreign investors in any form, and from providing any assistance, including providing resources, sites or facilities, to foreign investors that conduct value-added telecommunications business illegally in China. Furthermore, the relevant trademarks and domain names that are used in the value-added telecommunications business must be owned by the local ICP license holder or its shareholders. Due to a lack of interpretation from MIIT, it is unclear what impact the MIIT Circular will have on us or the other PRC internet companies that have adopted the same or similar corporate and contractual structures as ours. Beijing 58 holds an ICP license, and owns all domain names used in our value-added telecommunications businesses. Beijing 58 is also the owner of all registered trademarks used in our value-added telecommunications businesses and is the applicant of all the applications for trademark registration we have made. We are a Cayman Islands company and our PRC subsidiary, Wanglin, is considered a foreign invested enterprise. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we conduct our operations in China through a series of contractual arrangements entered into among Wanglin, Beijing 58 and Beijing 58’s shareholders. As a result of these contractual arrangements, we exert control over our Beijing 58 and its subsidiaries and consolidate their operating results in our financial statements under U.S. GAAP. For a detailed description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — A. History and Development of the Company.” 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS In the opinion of our PRC counsel, Han Kun Law Offices, our current ownership structure, the ownership structure of our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entities, the contractual arrangements among Wanglin, Beijing 58 and its shareholders, and, except as otherwise disclosed in this annual report, our business operations, are not in violation of any existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. In particular, in January 2015, the Ministry of Commerce published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law for public review and comments. Among other things, the draft Foreign Investment Law expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of “actual control” in determining whether a company is considered a foreign-invested enterprise. Under the draft Foreign Investment Law, variable interest entities would also be deemed as foreign-invested enterprises, if they are ultimately “controlled” by foreign investors, and be subject to restrictions on foreign investments. However, the draft law has not taken a position on what actions will be taken with respect to the existing companies with the “variable interest entity” structure, whether or not these companies are controlled by Chinese parties. It is uncertain when the draft would be signed into law and whether the final version would have any substantial changes from the draft. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Regulations on PRC Foreign Investment” and “— Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations.” Accordingly, we cannot assure you that PRC government authorities will not ultimately take a view contrary to the opinion of our PRC legal counsel. Accordingly, if our ownership structure, contractual arrangements and businesses of our company, our PRC subsidiaries or our consolidated affiliated entities are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, or we fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant governmental authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including levying fines, confiscating our income or the income of our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated affiliated entities, revoking the business licenses or operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated affiliated entities, shutting down our servers or blocking our website, discontinuing or placing restrictions or onerous conditions on our operations, requiring us to undergo a costly and disruptive restructuring, and taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations and severely damage our reputation, which would in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these occurrences results in our inability to direct the activities of any of our consolidated affiliated entities that most significantly impact its economic performance, and/or our failure to receive the economic benefits from any of our consolidated affiliated entities, we may not be able to consolidate the entity in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We rely on contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders for the operation of our business, which may not be as effective as direct ownership. If we are unable to maintain effective control, we would not be able to continue to consolidate the financial results of our consolidated affiliated entities with our financial results. If our consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to resort to litigation or arbitration to enforce our rights, which may be time-consuming, unpredictable, expensive and damaging to our operations and reputation. Because of PRC restrictions and qualification requirements on foreign ownership of value-added telecommunications services in China, we depend on contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities, in which we have no ownership interest, to conduct our business. These contractual arrangements are intended to provide us with effective control over these entities and allow us to obtain economic benefits from them. Although we have been advised by our PRC counsel, Han Kun Law Offices, that these contractual arrangements are valid, binding and enforceable under current PRC laws, these contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control as direct ownership. For example, our consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders could breach their contractual arrangements with us by, among other things, failing to conduct its operations, including maintaining our website and using the domain names and trademarks for which it has exclusive right to use, in an acceptable manner or taking other actions that are detrimental to our interests. If we were the controlling shareholder of our consolidated affiliated entities with direct ownership, 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS we would be able to exercise our rights as shareholders to effect changes to their board of directors, which in turn could implement changes at the management and operational level. Furthermore, each of our consolidated affiliated entities’ company chops are held by each company’s legal or accounting department. Our ability to ensure the consolidated affiliated entities’ performance under the contractual agreements may be limited if we were unable to secure control of the company chops in the event of a dispute with the entity’s management or shareholders as many official documents require affixation of company chops to become fully effective. As a result, if our consolidated affiliated entities or their shareholders fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements we may have to incur substantial costs to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including contract remedies, which may not be sufficient or effective. If we are unable to maintain effective control, we would not be able to continue to consolidate the financial results of these entities with our financial results. These contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for dispute resolution through arbitration in China. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. Under PRC law, if parties to a contract have agreed to resolve disputes arising from the contract by arbitration, a PRC court will not accept a lawsuit initiated at the court by any contract party, unless the agreement for arbitration is invalid. An arbitration award issued by the arbitration commission chosen in accordance with the agreement is final, binding and enforceable against the parties. If any party fails to comply with the arbitration award, the other party has the right to apply with a competent court for enforcement. However, the legal environment in China is not as developed as other jurisdictions such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements, which may make it difficult to exert effective control over our consolidated affiliated entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. In addition, a PRC court or arbitration tribunal may refuse to enforce the contractual arrangements on the grounds that they are designed to circumvent PRC foreign investment restrictions and therefore are against PRC public policy. If we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, or if we suffer significant delay or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these contractual arrangements, our business and operations could be severely disrupted, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and damage our reputation. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” The shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. Mr. Jinbo Yao is the founder, chairman and chief executive officer of our company, having beneficial ownership of 14.02% of the total outstanding shares of our company as of April 20, 2015. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” He is also the sole director, an executive officer and a shareholder of Beijing 58, our consolidated affiliated entity, holding 37.8% equity interest in the entity. In addition, Mr. Yao is the sole director and a 16.7% shareholder of Beijing Wanglintong Information Technology Co., Ltd., an entity that holds 13.4% equity interest in Beijing 58. Conflicts of interest between his duties to our company, his duties to Beijing 58 and his interests as a major shareholder of Beijing 58 may arise. We cannot assure you that he will act entirely in our interests when conflicts of interest arise or that conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. Furthermore, in the context of Mr. Yao’s acting as the director and an executive officer of Beijing 58, PRC law would not require him to consider our company’s best interests. We rely on Mr. Yao to abide by the laws of China, which provide that directors and executive officers owe duty of loyalty and duty of care to the company and require them to avoid conflicts of interest and not to take advantage of their positions for personal gains, and the laws of Cayman Islands which provide that directors owe a duty of care and duty of loyalty to the company. The respective legal framework of China and the Cayman Islands does not provide guidance in the event of a conflict with another corporate governance regime. If we cannot resolve any conflict of interest or dispute between us and directors or executive officers of Beijing 58 should one arise, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and subject us to substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. In addition, Mr. Yao could violate his non-competition or employment agreements with us or his legal duties by diverting business opportunities from us, resulting in our loss of corporate opportunities. If we are unable to 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS resolve any such conflicts, or if we suffer significant delays or other obstacles as a result of such conflicts, our business and operations could be severely disrupted, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and damage our reputation. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” We may lose the ability to use and enjoy assets held by our consolidated affiliated entities that are material to the operation of our business if any of such entities goes bankrupt or becomes subject to a dissolution or liquidation proceeding. As part of our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities, these entities hold certain assets that are material to the operation of our business, including the ICP license, and the domain names and trademarks for which Beijing 58 has exclusive right to use. If any of our consolidated affiliated entities goes bankrupt and all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the contractual arrangements, our consolidated affiliated entities may not, in any manner, sell, transfer, mortgage or dispose of their assets or legal or beneficial interests in the business without our prior consent. If any of our consolidated affiliated entities undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, the unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities may result in adverse tax consequences to us. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities within ten years after the taxable year when the transactions are conducted. The PRC enterprise income tax law requires every enterprise in China to submit its annual enterprise income tax return together with a report on transactions with its related parties to the relevant tax authorities. The tax authorities may impose reasonable adjustments on taxation if they have identified any related party transactions that are inconsistent with arm’s length principles. We may be subject to adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities were to determine that the contracts between Wanglin, our PRC subsidiary, and Beijing 58, our consolidated affiliated entity, were not on an arm’s length basis and therefore constitute a favorable transfer pricing arrangements. If this occurs, the PRC tax authorities could request that Beijing 58 adjust its taxable income, if any, upward for PRC tax purposes. Such a pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by increasing our consolidated affiliated entities’ tax expenses without reducing our tax expenses, which could subject our consolidated affiliated entities to late payment fees and other penalties for underpayment of taxes. We may be adversely affected by the complexity, uncertainties and changes in China regulation of internet business and companies. The internet industry in China is highly regulated by the PRC government and numerous regulatory authorities of the central PRC government are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the internet industry including foreign ownership of and licensing and permit requirements pertaining to companies in the internet industry. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation.” These internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances, it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations. Our consolidated affiliated entities are required to obtain and maintain applicable licenses or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide their current services, including but not limited to the ICP license with electronic bulletin boards service, the Surveying and Mapping Qualification Certificate for internet mapping and the Employment Agency License. For example, Shanghai Ruijia Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Shanghai Ruijia, a consolidated affiliated entity of Anjuke, which we recently acquired, may be required to add the provision of BBS services to its ICP license and it has yet to complete its application for a Surveying and Mapping Qualification Certificate. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Furthermore, our consolidated affiliated entities may be required to obtain additional licenses. If any of them fails to obtain or maintain any of the required licenses or approvals, its continued business operations in the internet industry may subject it to various penalties, such as confiscation of illegal net sales, fines and the discontinuation or restriction of its operations. Any such disruption in the business operations of our consolidated affiliated entities will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulation and censorship of information distribution over the internet in China may adversely affect our business, and we may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to our website. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing internet access and the distribution of information over the internet. Under these regulations, internet content providers and internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the internet content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China or the public interest, or is reactionary, obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the revocation of licenses to provide internet content and other licenses, the closure of the concerned websites and reputational harm. A website operator may also be held liable for such censored information displayed on or linked to its website. For a detailed discussion, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Regulations on Value-Added Telecommunication Services” and “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Regulations on Information Security and Censorship.” We have a team within our data security department which implements internal procedures to review the content in our system for compliance with applicable laws and regulations, aided by a program designed to periodically sweep our website and the data being conveyed in our system for sensitive keywords or questionable materials. In spite of this screening system, we may have difficulty identifying and removing all illegal content or transactions involving illegal sales of goods and services, which could expose us to the penalties described above. If the PRC government were to deem our membership services or online marketing services as a form of online advertising, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We do not believe our membership and online marketing services are deemed a form of online advertising under PRC laws and regulations. However, there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. If such services are deemed by the relevant authorities as a form of online advertising, such services will be subject to PRC advertising laws and regulations. Under PRC advertising laws and regulations, advertising operators, including advertising agencies, and advertising distributors, are obligated to monitor the advertising content and examine the supporting documents for advertisements provided by advertisers to ensure that the content is fair and accurate and in compliance with applicable law. There are also specific restrictions, requirements or prohibitions regarding advertisements that relate to certain products. Therefore, if our membership or online marketing services are deemed a form of online advertising, we will be obligated to conduct the examination, review and monitoring of advertising content on our online marketplace as required by PRC advertising laws and regulations, which could be burdensome, and we may be required to edit or delete certain content on our online marketplace. This risk could also apply to other content categories we may from time to time include on our website. In addition, foreign investment in advertising services is subject to certain requirements, including the need for foreign shareholders of PRC companies engaged in advertising services to meet certain qualification standards. Our PRC subsidiaries currently are not qualified to conduct advertising services and should any of our services be deemed as online advertising under PRC law, such activities must be conducted through Beijing 58, one of our consolidated affiliated entities, which is qualified to provide adverting services in China. The need to track and potentially shift services, contracts and personnel between our subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entities could add further burden and additional cost to our operations. Moreover, if any of our membership or online marketing services are characterized as a form of online advertising, we may be subject to an additional 3% surcharge with respect to the revenues we derive from such services, potentially with retroactive effect, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Doing Business in China Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which legal cases have limited value as precedents. In the late 1970s, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various forms of foreign or private-sector investment in China. Our PRC subsidiaries, Wanglin and 58 Technology are foreign-invested enterprises and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises as well as various PRC laws and regulations generally applicable to companies in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties. From time to time, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce our legal rights. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published in a timely manner or at all) that may have retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. Such uncertainties, including uncertainty over the scope and effect of our contractual, property (including intellectual property) and procedural rights, and any failure to respond to changes in the regulatory environment in China could materially and adversely affect our business and impede our ability to continue our operations. Changes in China’s economic, political or social conditions or government policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Substantially all of our assets and almost all of our users are located in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be influenced to a significant degree by political, economic and social conditions in China generally and by continued economic growth in China as a whole. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over the PRC economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy, and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. While China’s economy has experienced significant growth over the past decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy, and may slow down in the future. Some of the government measures may benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. Any stimulus measures designed to boost the Chinese economy may contribute to higher inflation, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, certain operating costs and expenses, such as employee compensation and office operating expenses, may increase as a result of higher inflation. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations. The Ministry of Commerce published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law in January 2015 aiming to, upon its enactment, replace the trio of existing laws regulating foreign investment in China, namely, the Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law, the Sino-foreign Cooperative Joint Venture Enterprise Law and the Wholly Foreign-invested Enterprise Law, together with their implementation rules and ancillary regulations. The draft Foreign Investment Law embodies an expected PRC regulatory trend to rationalize its foreign investment regulatory regime in line with prevailing international practice and the legislative efforts to unify the corporate legal requirements for both foreign and domestic investments. The Ministry of Commerce solicited comments on this draft and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to its enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may materially impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations in many aspects. Among other things, the draft Foreign Investment Law expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of “actual control” in determining whether a company is considered a foreign-invested enterprise, or an FIE. The draft Foreign Investment Law specifically provides that entities established in China but “controlled” by foreign investors will be treated as FIEs, whereas an entity set up in a foreign jurisdiction would nonetheless be, upon market entry clearance by the Ministry of Commerce, treated as a PRC domestic investor provided that the entity is “controlled” by PRC entities and/or citizens. In this connection, “foreign investors” refers to the following subjects making investments within the PRC: (i) natural persons without PRC nationality; (ii) enterprises incorporated under the laws of countries or regions other than China; (iii) the governments of countries or regions other than the PRC and the departments or agencies thereunder; and (iv) international organizations. Domestic enterprises under the control of the subjects as mentioned in the preceding sentence are deemed foreign investors, and “control” is broadly defined in the draft law to cover the following summarized categories: (i) holding, directly or indirectly, not less than 50% of shares, equities, share of voting rights or other similar rights of the subject entity; (ii) holding, directly or indirectly, less than 50% of the voting rights of the subject entity but having the power to secure at least 50% of the seats on the board or other equivalent decision making bodies, or having the voting power to exert material influence on the board, the shareholders’ meeting or other equivalent decision making bodies; or (iii) having the power to exert decisive influence, via contractual or trust arrangements, over the subject entity’s operations, financial matters or other key aspects of business operations. Once an entity is determined to be an FIE, it will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in a “catalogue of special administrative measures,” which is classified into the “catalogue of prohibitions” and “the catalogue of restrictions”, to be separately issued by the State Council later. Foreign investors are not allowed to invest in any sector set forth in the catalogue of prohibitions. However, unless the underlying business of the FIE falls within the catalogue of restrictions, which calls for market entry clearance by the Ministry of Commerce, prior approval from the government authorities as mandated by the existing foreign investment legal regime would no longer be required for establishment of the FIE. The “variable interest entity” structure, or VIE structure, has been adopted by many PRC-based companies, including us, to obtain necessary licenses and permits in the industries that are currently subject to foreign investment restrictions in China. See “— Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure and Restrictions on Our Industry” and “Item 4. Information on the Company — C. Organizational Structure.” Under the draft Foreign Investment Law, variable interest entities that are controlled via contractual arrangement would also be deemed as FIEs, if they are ultimately “controlled” by foreign investors. Therefore, for any companies with a VIE structure in an industry category that is included in the “negative list” as restricted industry, the VIE structure may be deemed legitimate only if the ultimate controlling person(s) is/are of PRC nationality (either PRC government authorities and its affiliates or PRC citizens). Conversely, if the actual controlling person(s) is/are of foreign nationalities, then the variable interest entities will be treated as FIEs and any operation in the industry category on the “negative list” without market entry clearance may be considered as illegal. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS It is uncertain whether we would be considered as ultimately controlled by Chinese parties. Besides, the draft Foreign Investment Law has not taken a position on what actions shall be taken with respect to the existing companies with a VIE structure, whether or not these companies are controlled by Chinese parties, while the Ministry of Commerce solicited comments from the public on this point. Moreover, it is uncertain whether the value-added telecommunications services, in which our variable interest entities operate, will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in the “negative list” to be issued. If the enacted version of the Foreign Investment Law and the final “negative list” mandate further actions, such as Ministry of Commerce market entry clearance, to be completed by companies with existing VIE structure like us, we face uncertainties as to whether such clearance can be timely obtained, or at all. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may also materially impact our corporate governance practice and increase our compliance costs. For instance, the draft Foreign Investment Law imposes stringent ad hoc and periodic information reporting requirements on foreign investors and the applicable FIEs. Aside from investment implementation report required at each investment and investment amendment reports, which shall be submitted upon alteration of investment specifics, it is mandatory for entities established by foreign investors to submit an annual report, and large foreign investors meeting certain criteria are required to report on a quarterly basis. Any company found to be non-compliant with these information reporting obligations may potentially be subject to fines and/or administrative or criminal liabilities, and the persons directly responsible may be subject to criminal liabilities. Under the EIT Law, we may be classified as a PRC “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Such classification would likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, that became effective on January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes and is generally subject to a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on its worldwide income. Under the implementation rules to the EIT Law, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and properties of an enterprise. In addition, a circular, known as SAT Circular 82, issued in April 2009 and amended in January 2014 by the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, specifies that certain offshore incorporated enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups will be classified as PRC resident enterprises if the following are located or resident in China: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision making bodies; key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of the senior management or directors having voting rights. Further to SAT Circular 82, the SAT issued a bulletin, known as SAT Bulletin 45, which took effect in September 2011, to provide more guidance on the implementation of SAT Circular 82 and clarify the reporting and filing obligations of such “Chinese-controlled offshore incorporated resident enterprises.” SAT Bulletin 45 provides procedures and administrative details for the determination of resident status and administration on post-determination matters. Although both SAT Circular 82 and SAT Bulletin 45 only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreign individuals, the determining criteria set forth in SAT Circular 82 and SAT Bulletin 45 may reflect the SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises, PRC enterprise groups or by PRC or foreign individuals. We do not believe that 58.com Inc., CCNC BVI or CCIC HK meet all of the conditions above thus we do not believe that 58.com Inc., or CCNC BVI or CCIC HK is, a PRC resident enterprise, though some of the members of our management team as well as the management team of our offshore holding companies are located in China. However, if the PRC tax authorities determine that 58.com Inc., CCNC BVI or CCIC HK is a PRC resident enterprise for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we or our offshore subsidiaries will be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS income tax on our world-wide income, which could materially reduce our net income. In addition, we will also be subject to PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Furthermore, although dividends paid by one PRC tax resident enterprise to an offshore incorporated PRC resident enterprise controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups should qualify as “tax-exempt income” under the EIT Law and Bulletin 45, we cannot assure you that dividends paid by our PRC subsidiaries to CCIC HK will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax on dividends, and the PRC tax authorities have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes but not controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups. Finally, dividends payable by us to our investors and gains on the sale of our shares may be become subject to PRC withholding tax. We may not be able to obtain certain benefits under relevant tax treaty on dividends paid by our PRC subsidiaries to us through CCIC HK. We are a holding company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands and as such rely on dividends and other distributions on equity from our PRC subsidiaries to satisfy part of our liquidity requirements. Pursuant to the EIT Law, a withholding tax rate of 10% currently applies to dividends paid by a PRC “resident enterprise” to a foreign enterprise investor, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for preferential tax treatment. Pursuant to a Notice 112 issued by the SAT in January 2008 and the Arrangement between the Mainland China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion, or the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong), such withholding tax rate may be lowered to 5% if the PRC enterprise is at least 25% held by a Hong Kong enterprise at all times within the 12-month period immediately prior to distribution of the dividends and is determined by the relevant PRC tax authority to have satisfied other conditions and requirements under the Double Tax Avoidance Arrangement (Hong Kong) and other applicable PRC laws. Pursuant to a SAT Circular 601 issued by the SAT in October 2009, non-resident enterprises that cannot provide valid supporting documents as “beneficial owners” may not be approved to enjoy tax treaty benefits, and “beneficial owners” refers to individuals, enterprises or other organizations which are normally engaged in substantive operations. These rules also set forth certain adverse factors on the recognition of a “beneficial owner”. Specifically, they expressly exclude a “conduit company,” or any company established for the purposes of avoiding or reducing tax obligations or transferring or accumulating profits and not engaged in actual operations such as manufacturing, sales or management, from being a “beneficial owner.” Whether a non-resident company may obtain tax benefits under the relevant tax treaty will be subject to approval of the relevant PRC tax authority and will be determined by the PRC tax authority on a case-by-case basis. In June 2012, the SAT further provides in an announcement that a comprehensive analysis should be made when determining the beneficial owner status based on various factors supported by documents including the articles of association, financial statements, records of cash movements, board meeting minutes, board resolutions, staffing and materials, relevant expenditures, functions and risk assumption as well as relevant contracts and other information. Our Hong Kong subsidiary has not applied for the approval for a withholding tax rate of 5% from the local tax authority as our PRC subsidiaries have not paid dividends due to their loss-making status in the past and will not be able to pay dividends in the future until they have achieved accumulated profits. We plan to have our Hong Kong subsidiary assume some managerial and administrative functions, as well as conduct other business functions in the future. Once we implement such a plan, we do not believe that our Hong Kong subsidiary will be considered a conduit company as defined under SAT Circular 601. However, our Hong Kong subsidiary as currently situated may be considered a conduit company and we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC tax authority will agree with our view when our Hong Kong subsidiary applies to obtain tax benefits under the relevant tax treaty in the future. As a result, although our PRC subsidiaries are currently wholly owned by our Hong Kong subsidiary, we may not be able to enjoy the preferential withholding tax rate of 5% under the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong) and therefore be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10% with respect to dividends to be paid by our PRC subsidiaries to CCIC HK. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS Enhanced scrutiny over acquisition transactions by the PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on potential acquisitions we may pursue in the future. In connection with the EIT Law, the Ministry of Finance and the SAT jointly issued a SAT Circular 59 in April 2009, and the SAT issued a SAT Circular 698 in December 2009. Both SAT Circular 59 and Circular 698 became effective retroactively on January 1, 2008. According to SAT Circular 698, where a non-resident enterprise transfers the equity interests of a PRC “resident enterprise” indirectly by disposition of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, the non-resident enterprise, being the transferor, may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax, if the indirect transfer is considered to be an abusive use of company structure without reasonable commercial purposes. As a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. In addition, the PRC “resident enterprise” is supposed to provide necessary assistance to support the enforcement of SAT Circular 698. On February 3, 2015, the State Administration of Tax issued a Public Notice Regarding Certain Corporate Income Tax Matters on Indirect Transfer of Properties by Non-Tax Resident Enterprises, or Public Notice 7. Public Notice 7 has introduced a new tax regime that is significantly different from that under Circular 698. Public Notice 7 extends its tax jurisdiction to not only indirect transfers set forth under Circular 698 but also transactions involving transfer of other taxable assets, through the offshore transfer of a foreign intermediate holding company. In addition, Public Notice 7 provides clearer criteria than Circular 698 on how to assess reasonable commercial purposes and has introduced safe harbors for internal group restructurings and the purchase and sale of equity through a public securities market. Public Notice 7 also brings challenges to both the foreign transferor and transferee (or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer) of the taxable assets. Where a non-resident enterprise conducts an “indirect transfer” by transferring the taxable assets indirectly by disposing of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, the non-resident enterprise being the transferor, or the transferee, or the PRC entity which directly owned the taxable assets may report to the relevant tax authority such indirect transfer. Using a “substance over form” principle, the PRC tax authority may re-characterize such indirect transfer as a direct transfer of the equity interests in the PRC tax resident enterprise and other properties in China. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax, and the transferee or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer is obligated to withhold the applicable taxes, currently at a rate of up to 10% for the transfer of equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise. Both the transferor and the transferee may be subject to penalties under PRC tax laws if the transferee fails to withhold the taxes and the transferor fails to pay the taxes. We face uncertainties on the reporting and consequences on private equity financing transactions, share exchange or other transactions involving the transfer of shares in our company by investors that are non-PRC resident enterprises, or sale or purchase of shares in other non-PRC resident companies or other taxable assets by us. Our company and other non-resident enterprises in our group may be subject to filing obligations or being taxed if our company and other non-resident enterprises in our group are transferors in such transactions, and may be subject to withholding obligations if our company and other non-resident enterprises in our group are transferees in such transactions, under Circular 698 and Public Notice 7. For the transfer of shares in our company by investors that are non-PRC resident enterprises, our PRC subsidiaries may be requested to assist in the filing under Circular 698 and Public Notice 7. As a result, we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 and Public Notice 7 or to request the relevant transferors from whom we purchase taxable assets to comply with these circulars, or to establish that our company and other non-resident enterprises in our group should not be taxed under these circulars, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The PRC tax authorities have the discretion under Circular 698 and Public Notice 7 to make adjustments to the taxable capital gains based on the difference between the fair value of the taxable assets transferred and the cost of investment. If the PRC tax authorities make adjustments to the taxable income of the transactions under Circular 698 and Public Notice 7, our income tax costs associated with such potential acquisitions will be increased, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS PRC regulations establish complex procedures for some acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. Six PRC regulatory agencies promulgated regulations effective on September 8, 2006 that are commonly referred to as the M&A Rules. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation.” The M&A Rules establish procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. In addition, national security review rules issued by the PRC governmental authorities in 2011 require acquisitions by foreign investors of domestic companies engaged in military-related or certain other industries that are crucial to national security to be subject to prior security review. Moreover, the Anti-Monopoly Law requires that the Ministry of Commerce shall be notified in advance of any concentration of undertaking if certain thresholds are triggered. We may expand our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rules, security review rules and other PRC regulations to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, or otherwise expose us to liability and penalties under PRC law. The SAFE promulgated the Circular on Relevant Issues Relating to Domestic Resident’s Investment and Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular 37, in July 2014, to replace the Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for PRC Residents Engaging in Financing and Roundtrip Investments via Overseas Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular 75. SAFE Circular 37 requires PRC residents, including PRC individuals and entities, to register with SAFE or its local branch in connection with their establishment or control of an offshore entity established for the purpose of overseas investment or financing. In addition, such PRC residents must update their SAFE registrations when the offshore special purpose vehicle undergoes material events relating to any change of basic information (including change of such PRC residents, name and operation term), increases or decreases in investment amount, transfers or exchanges of shares, or mergers or divisions. On February 28, 2015, SAFE promulgated the Notice on Further Simplifying and Improving Foreign Exchange Administration Policy on Direct Investment, or SAFE Notice 13, which will become effective on June 1, 2015. After SAFE Notice 13 becomes effective, instead of applying for approvals regarding foreign exchange registrations of foreign direct investment and overseas direct investment from the SAFE as required under current laws, entities and individuals will be required to apply for such foreign exchange registrations, including those required under the SAFE Circular 37, from qualified banks. The qualified banks, under the supervision of the SAFE, will directly examine the applications and conduct the registration. If a PRC resident fails to make the required SAFE registration with the local SAFE branches, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore company, and the offshore company may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital to its PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Furthermore, it is unclear how these regulations, and any future regulation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to a more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, either we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, may not be able to obtain 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the foreign exchange regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee share ownership plans or share option plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In February 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notices on Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plans of Overseas Publicly-Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rules, replacing the previous rules issued by SAFE in March 2007. Under the Stock Option Rules and other relevant rules and regulations, PRC residents who participate in stock incentive plan in an overseas publicly-listed company are required to register with SAFE or its local branches and complete certain other procedures. Participants of a stock incentive plan who are PRC residents must retain a qualified PRC agent, which could be a PRC subsidiary of the overseas publicly listed company or another qualified institution selected by the PRC subsidiary, to conduct the SAFE registration and other procedures with respect to the stock incentive plan on behalf of its participants. The participants must also retain an overseas entrusted institution to handle matters in connection with their exercise of stock options, the purchase and sale of corresponding stocks or interests and fund transfers. In addition, the PRC agent is required to amend the SAFE registration with respect to the stock incentive plan if there is any material change to the stock incentive plan, the PRC agent or the overseas entrusted institution or other material changes. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Regulations on Employee Stock Option Plans.” We and our PRC employees who have been granted share options and restricted shares are subject to these regulations. Failure of our PRC share option holders or restricted shareholders to complete their SAFE registrations may subject these PRC residents to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limited our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to us, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business. PRC regulation of direct investment and loans by offshore holding companies to PRC entities and governmental control of currency conversion may delay or limit us from using the proceeds of our securities offering to make additional capital contributions or loans to our PRC subsidiaries. Any capital contributions or loans that we, as an offshore entity, make to our PRC subsidiaries, including from the proceeds of our securities offerings, are subject to PRC regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, we are permitted to utilize the proceeds from our securities offering to fund our PRC subsidiaries only through loans or capital contributions, subject to applicable government registration and approval requirements. None of our loans to a PRC subsidiary can exceed the difference between its total amount of investment and its registered capital approved under relevant PRC laws, and the loans must be registered with the local branch of SAFE. As of December 31, 2014, the difference between total amount of investment and registered capital is US$50 million for Wanglin and US$113.3 million for 58 Technology, respectively. Our capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary registration or obtain the necessary approval on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to complete the necessary registration or obtain the necessary approval, our ability to make loans or equity contributions to our PRC subsidiaries may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our PRC subsidiaries’ liquidity and their ability to fund their working capital and expansion projects and meet their obligations and commitments. In August 2008, SAFE promulgated a SAFE Circular 142 regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested enterprise of foreign currency registered capital into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. SAFE Circular 142 provides that the Renminbi capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable government authority and unless otherwise provided by law, such Renminbi capital may not be used for equity investments in China. Furthermore, SAFE promulgated a SAFE Circular 45 in November 2011, which, among other things, restricts a foreign-invested enterprise from using Renminbi converted from its registered capital to provide entrusted loans or repay loans between non-financial enterprises. On March 30, 2015, the SAFE promulgated SAFE Circular 19, which will take effective and 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS replace SAFE Circular 142 from June 1, 2015. Although SAFE circular 19 allows for the use of Renminbi converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital for equity investments in the PRC, the restrictions will continue to apply as to foreign-invested enterprises’ use of the converted Renminbi for purposes beyond the business scope, for entrusted loans for inter-company Renminbi loans. The business scopes of Wanglin and 58 Technology include research and development of online classified information technology and software systems, transfer of proprietary technologies, information technology consulting, technical services, computer technology training, marketing, sales and promotional services, enterprise management services, business consultation and personnel management services. Each of Wanglin and 58 Technology may only use Renminbi converted from foreign exchange capital contribution for activities within its approved business scope. In addition, the use of such Renminbi capital may not be altered without SAFE approval, and such Renminbi capital may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of these circulars and rules could result in severe monetary or other penalties. If we convert the net proceeds we receive from our securities offerings into Renminbi pursuant to the applicable laws and regulations, our use of Renminbi funds for general corporate purposes will be within the business scope of our PRC subsidiaries. PRC regulation of loans by offshore holding companies to PRC entities and governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to fund the operations of our consolidated affiliated entities. Due to the restrictions imposed on loans in foreign currencies extended to any PRC domestic companies, any loans from our Cayman Islands holding company or other offshore entities to PRC domestic company shall obtain certain approvals from local SAFE and complete record-filling procedures with local SAFE on an item-by-item basis. Therefore, we are not likely to have our Cayman Islands holding company or other offshore entities to use the proceeds from our securities offerings to extend loans to Beijing 58, our consolidated affiliated entity, or its subsidiaries, each of which is a PRC domestic company. Meanwhile, we are not likely to finance the activities of our consolidated affiliated entities by means of capital contributions due to regulatory restrictions relating to foreign investment in PRC domestic enterprises engaged in value-added telecommunications services. In addition, due to the restrictions on a foreign-invested enterprise’s use of Renminbi converted from foreign-currency registered capital under PRC regulations, including SAFE Circular 142 and SAFE Circular 45 and SAFE Circular 19, as described under the foregoing risk factor, our PRC subsidiaries, Wanglin and 58 Technology, may be unable to use the Renminbi converted from their registered capital to provide loans or financial support to our consolidated affiliated entities. We currently do not plan to use the proceeds from our securities offering to fund the operations of Beijing 58, our consolidated affiliated entity, and its subsidiaries. Additionally, our PRC subsidiaries are not prohibited under PRC laws and regulations from using their capital generated from their operating activities to provide entrusted loans or other forms of financial support to consolidated affiliated entities. We will assess the working capital requirements of our consolidated affiliated entities on an ongoing basis and, if needed, may have our PRC subsidiaries to use their capital from operating activities to provide financial support to our consolidated affiliated entities. Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on paying dividends or making other payments to us, which may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. We may need dividends and other distributions on equity from our PRC subsidiaries to satisfy our liquidity requirements. Current PRC regulations permit our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our PRC subsidiaries are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds until the total amount set aside reaches 50% of their respective registered capital. Our PRC subsidiaries may also allocate a portion of its after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards to employee welfare and bonus funds at their discretion. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. As of this annual report, our PRC subsidiaries have been in accumulated loss and did not pay dividends to us. Further, if any of our PRC subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us, which may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements. As of December 31, 2014, the registered capital of our PRC subsidiaries, 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS namely Wanglin and 58 Technology, was US$250 million and US$56.68 million, respectively. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Regulations on Foreign Currency Exchange.” Discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments and government subsidies or imposition of any additional taxes and surcharges could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The EIT Law and its implementing rules have adopted a uniform statutory enterprise income tax rate of 25% to all enterprises in China. The EIT Law and its implementing rules also permit qualified “high and new technology enterprises,” or HNTEs, to enjoy a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15% upon filing with relevant tax authorities. The qualification as a HNTE generally has a valid term of three years and the renewal of such qualification is subject to review by the relevant authorities in China. Beijing 58, one of our consolidated affiliated entities, obtained its HNTE certificate in May 2009 and renewed its HNTE certificate in May 2012 with a valid period of three years. Wanglin, one of our PRC subsidiaries, obtained its HNTE certificate in November 2012, which is valid for three years. Therefore, Beijing 58 and Wanglin are eligible to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15% until the end of 2014 when they have taxable income under the EIT Law, as long as they maintain the HNTE qualification and obtain approval from the relevant tax authority. Beijing 58 submitted its HNTE status renewal application in mid-April 2015 and Wanglin will submit its HNTE status renewal application by the end of May 2015. Both companies are expected to complete the approval process within three months thereafter. If Beijing 58 or Wanglin fails to maintain its HNTE qualification or renew its qualification when its current term expires, its applicable enterprise income tax rate may increase to 25%, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities have received various financial subsidies from PRC local government authorities. The financial subsidies are discretionary incentives and policies adopted by PRC local government authorities. Local governments may decide to change or discontinue such financial subsidies at any time. The discontinuation of such financial subsidies or imposition of any additional taxes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Substantially all of our revenues and expenditures are denominated in Renminbi. As the functional currency for our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities is Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate may cause us to incur foreign exchange losses on any foreign currency holdings they may have. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. If we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC political and economic conditions and the PRC foreign exchange policies. Renminbi appreciated against the U.S. dollar after the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of Renminbi to the U.S. dollar in 2012. However, the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to limit fluctuations in Renminbi exchange rates and achieve policy goals. Since June 2010, the Renminbi has started to slowly appreciate against the U.S. dollar, though there have been periods recently when the U.S. dollar has appreciated against the Renminbi. It is difficult to predict how long the current situation may last and when and how the relationship between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar may change again. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a flexible currency policy. Any significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollars. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from this initial public offering into Renminbi to pay our operating expenses, appreciation of the Renminbi against the 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, a significant depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may significantly reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings, which in turn could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. Very limited hedging options are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to adequately hedge our exposure or at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Our failure to make adequate contributions to various employee benefit plans as required by PRC regulations may subject us to penalties. Companies operating in China are required to participate in social insurance and housing fund plans. We have not fully contributed to such plans as required by applicable PRC regulations. As of December 31, 2014, with regards to the outstanding contributions, including historical underpayments to such plans, we made a provision of RMB41.1 million (US$6.6 million), which is reflected in our audited financial statements included in this annual report. While we believe this provision is adequate, our failure to make sufficient payments to such plans does not fully comply with applicable PRC laws and regulations and we may be required to make up the contributions for such plans as well as to pay late fees and fines. Registered pubic accounting firms in China, including our independent registered public accounting firm, are not inspected by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which deprives us and our investors of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies whose shares are registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards applicable to auditors. Our independent registered public accounting firm is located in, and organized under the laws of the Peoples’ Republic of China, or the PRC, which is a jurisdiction where the PCAOB, notwithstanding the requirements of U.S. law, is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities. In May 2013, PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by PCAOB, the CSRC or the PRC Ministry of Finance in the United States and the PRC, respectively. PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from fully evaluating audits and quality control procedures of any auditors operating in China, including our independent registered public accounting firm. As a result, we and investors in our common stock are deprived of the benefits of such PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections, which could cause investors and potential investors in our common stock to lose confidence in our audit procedures and reported financial information and the quality of our financial statements. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS If additional remedial measures are imposed on the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in administrative proceedings brought by the SEC alleging the firms’ failure to meet specific criteria set by the SEC, we could unable to timely file future financial statements in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC instituted administrative proceedings against the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms’ audit work papers with respect to certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, censuring that each of the firms had violated the SEC’s rules of practice by failing to produce audit work papers to the SEC. The initial decision censured each of the firms and barred them from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The decision is not effective unless and until it is endorsed by the SEC. On February 12, 2014, the four PRC-based accounting firms appealed to the SEC against this sanction. On February 6, 2015, the four PRC-based accounting firms each agreed to a censure and to pay a fine to the SEC to settle the dispute and avoid suspension of their ability to practice before the SEC and audit U.S. listed companies. The settlement required the firms to follow detailed procedures to seek to provide the SEC with access to Chinese firms’ audit documents via the CSRC. If future document productions fail to comply with the documentation production procedures that are in the settlement agreement or if there is a failure of the process between the SEC and the CSRC, the SEC retains authority to impose a variety of additional remedial measures on the firms depending on the nature of the failure. If the accounting firms are subject to additional remedial measures, our ability to file our financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could be impacted. A determination that we have not timely filed financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could ultimately lead to the delisting of our common stock from NYSE or the termination of the registration of our common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our common stock in the United States. Risks Related to Our ADSs The trading prices of our ADSs have fluctuated and may be volatile. The trading prices of our ADSs have fluctuated since we first listed our ADSs. Since our ADSs became listed on the NYSE on October 31, 2013, the trading price of our ADSs has ranged from US$17.00 to US$83.71 per ADS, and the last reported trading price on April 28, 2015 was US$77.70 per ADS. The prices for our ADSs may continue to fluctuate because of broad market and industry factors, like the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States. In recent years, the widespread negative publicity of alleged fraudulent accounting practices and poor corporate governance of certain U.S. public companies with operations in China were believed to have negatively affected investors’ perception and sentiment towards companies with connection with China, which significantly and negatively affected the trading prices of some companies’ securities listed in the United States. Any similar negative publicity or sentiment may affect the performances of our ADSs. The securities of some PRC companies that have listed their securities on U.S. stock markets have experienced significant volatility. The trading performances of these PRC companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward PRC companies listed in the United States in general and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for factors specific to our own operations, including the following: • the financial projections that we may choose to provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure for any reason to meet those projections; • variations in our net sales, earnings and cash flow; • announcements of new investments, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, or joint ventures; • announcements of new services and expansions by us or our competitors; 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • additions or departures of key personnel; • release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding equity securities or sales of additional equity securities; • detrimental negative publicity about us, our competitors or our industry; • potential litigation or regulatory investigations or other proceedings involving us; • fluctuations in market prices for our products; and • proceedings instituted recently by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our ADSs, the market price for our ADSs and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ADSs will be influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about our business. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our ADSs, or publish unfavorable research about us, the market price for our ADSs would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price or trading volume for our ADSs to decline. Our dual class share structure with different voting rights will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to ten votes per share, with Class A and Class B ordinary shares voting together as one class on all matters subject to a shareholders’ vote. As of April 20, 2015, holders of our Class B ordinary shares collectively owned approximately 23.19% of our outstanding ordinary shares, representing 75.12% of our total voting power. As of April 20, 2015, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Jinbo Yao and Tencent beneficially own an aggregate of 40.37% of our outstanding shares. As a result of the dual class share structure and the concentration of ownership, holders of our Class B ordinary shares have substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. They may take actions that are not in the best interest of us or our other shareholders. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and may reduce the price of our ADSs. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. For more information regarding our principal shareholders and their affiliated entities, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our ADSs could adversely affect their market price. Sales of substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through equity offerings in the future. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of our ADSs. 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States investors in the ADSs or Class A ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our assets, which may be determined based, in part, on the market value of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs, and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. Under United States federal income tax law, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of our assets (based on the average quarterly value of our assets during the taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. Based on our income and assets and the value of our ADSs and Class A ordinary shares, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2014 and, although no assurances can be made in this regard, we do not expect to be a PFIC for the current taxable year or any subsequent taxable year. While we do not anticipate being a PFIC, changes in the nature of our income or assets or the value of our assets may cause us to become a PFIC for the current or any subsequent taxable year. Although the law in this regard is not entirely clear, we treat Beijing 58 as being owned by us for United States federal income tax purposes, because we control its management decisions and we are entitled to substantially all of the economic benefits associated with it, and, as a result, we consolidate its results of operations in our consolidated U.S. GAAP financial statements. If it were determined, however, that we are not the owner of Beijing 58 for United States federal income tax purposes, we would likely be treated as a PFIC for our taxable year ending December 31, 2015 and for subsequent taxable years. Because of the uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and because PFIC status is a factual determination made annually after the close of each taxable year on the basis of the composition of our income and the value of our active versus passive assets, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for our taxable year ending December 31, 2015 or any future taxable year. Under circumstances where revenues from activities that produce passive income significantly increase relative to our revenues from activities that produce non-passive income or where we determine not to deploy significant amounts of cash for active purposes, our risk of becoming classified as a PFIC may substantially increase. If we were to be or become a PFIC, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Tax Considerations” and “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — General”) may incur significantly increased United States federal income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or Class A ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or Class A ordinary shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States income tax rules. Further, if we were a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder held our ADSs or Class A ordinary shares, we generally would continue to be treated as a PFIC with respect to such U.S. Holder for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder held our ADSs or Class A ordinary shares. Each U.S. Holder is urged to consult its tax advisor concerning the United States federal income tax consequences of purchasing, holding and disposing of ADSs or Class A ordinary shares if we are or become treated as a PFIC. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement, and you may not be able to exercise your right to vote your Class A ordinary shares. As a holder of our ADSs, you will only be able to exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying Class A ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, you must vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying Class A ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. You will not be able to directly exercise your right to vote with respect to the underlying shares unless you withdraw the shares. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is ten clear days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient advance notice to withdraw the shares underlying your ADSs to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and will arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for their manner of carrying out your voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may have no legal remedy if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act, and as such we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies. Because we qualify as a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act, we are exempt from certain provisions of the securities rules and regulations in the United States that are applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents, or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their share ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time; and • the selective disclosure rules by issuers of material nonpublic information under Regulation FD. We are required to file an annual report on Form 20-F within four months of the end of each fiscal year. In addition, we intend to publish our results on a quarterly basis as press releases, distributed pursuant to the rules and regulations of the NYSE. Press releases relating to financial results and material events will also be furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. However, the information we are required to file with or furnish to the SEC are less extensive and less timely as compared to that required to be filed with the SEC by United States domestic issuers. As a Cayman Islands company listed on the NYSE, we are subject to the NYSE corporate governance listing standards. Among other things, Section 303A.08 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual requires shareholder approval of material revisions to equity-compensation plans and Section 312.03(c) of the NYSE Listed Company Manual requires shareholder approval of new share issuances above the 20% threshold specified therein. However, NYSE rules permit a foreign private issuer like us to follow the corporate governance practices of its home country. We have elected to follow the Cayman Islands practices with respect to the amendment of our 2013 share incentive plan to increase the total number of ordinary shares that may be issued pursuant to awards granted under the plan. In addition, we have also elected to follow the Cayman Islands practices with respect to the issuance of new ordinary shares above the 20% threshold as specified in Section 312.03(c). You may not receive dividends or other distributions on our ordinary shares and you may not receive any value for them, if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on Class A ordinary shares or other deposited securities underlying our ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of Class A ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell these undistributed rights to third parties, and may allow the rights to lapse. We may be unable to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our share register or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company, particularly after we cease to qualify as an “emerging growth company.” As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NYSE, impose various requirements on the corporate governance practices of public companies. As a company with less than US$1.0 billion in revenues for our last fiscal year, we qualify as an “emerging growth company” pursuant to the JOBS Act. An emerging growth company may take advantage of specified reduced reporting and other requirements that are otherwise applicable generally to public companies. These provisions include exemption from the auditor attestation requirement under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the assessment of the emerging growth company’s internal control over financial reporting and permission to delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. However, we have elected to “opt out” of this provision and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards as required when they are adopted for public companies. This decision to opt out of the extended transition period under the JOBS Act is irrevocable. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. After we are no longer an “emerging growth company,” we expect to incur significant expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the other rules and regulations of the SEC. For example, as a public company, we need to increase the number of independent directors and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. We have incurred additional costs in obtaining director and officer liability insurance. In addition, we also incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. It may also be more difficult for us to find qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules and regulations, and we cannot predict or estimate with any degree of certainty the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. In the past, shareholders of a public company often brought securities class action suits against the company following periods of instability in the market price of that company’s securities. If we were involved in a class action suit, it could divert a significant amount of our management’s attention and other resources from our business and operations, which could harm our results of operations and require us to incur significant expenses to defend the suit. Any such class action suit, whether or not successful, could harm our reputation and restrict our ability to raise capital in the future. In addition, if a claim is successfully made against us, we may be required to pay significant damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS 