D. Risk Factors The risks described below are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks that are not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We are subject to significant competition from within the FSS sector, from alternative satellite service providers and from other providers of communications capacity, such as fiber optic cable capacity. Competition from other telecommunications providers could have a material adverse effect on our business and could prevent us from implementing our business strategy and expanding our operations as planned. We face significant competition in the fixed satellite services (“FSS”) sector in different regions around the world. We compete against other satellite operators and against suppliers of ground-based communications capacity. The increasing availability of satellite capacity and capacity from other forms of communications technology, has historically created an excess supply of telecommunications capacity in certain regions from time to time. We believe such an imbalance could again occur in certain regions, particularly as we and other operators begin to introduce next generation high-throughput satellite technology to our fleets. Additionally, there is emerging interest from new entrants to launch new constellations in different orbits that could potentially compete with portions of our business. Increased competition in the FSS sector could lower prices, which could reduce our operating margins and the cash available to fund our operations and service our debt obligations. In addition, there has been a trend toward consolidation of major FSS providers as customers increasingly demand more robust distribution platforms with network redundancies and worldwide reach, and we expect to face increased competition as a result of this trend. Our direct competitors are likely to continue developing and launching satellites with greater power and more transponders, which may create satellite capacity at lower costs. In order to compete effectively, we invest in similar technology. We also believe that there are many companies that are seeking ways to improve the ability of existing land-based infrastructure, such as fiber optic cable, to transmit signals. Any significant improvement or increase in the amount of land-based capacity, particularly with respect to the existing fiber optic cable infrastructure and point-to-point applications, may cause our video and network services customers to shift their transmissions to land-based capacity or make it more difficult for us to obtain new customers. If fiber optic cable networks or other ground-based high-capacity transmission systems are available to service a particular point, that capacity, when available, is generally less expensive than satellite capacity. As land-based telecommunications services expand, demand for some satellite-based services may be reduced. In addition, we face challenges to our business apart from these industry trends that our competition may not face. A portion of our revenue has historically been derived from channel services, and from other point-to-point services which comprise a portion of our transponder services. Because fiber optic cable capacity is generally available at lower prices than satellite capacity, competition from fiber optic cable has historically caused a migration of our point-to-point customers from satellite to fiber optic cable on certain routes, resulting in erosion in our revenue from point-to-point services over the last ten years. Some other FSS operators have service mixes that are less weighted towards point-to-point connectivity than our current service mix. We have been addressing this erosion and sustaining our business by expanding our customer base in point-to-multipoint services, such as video, and growing our presence in serving wireless communications providers and the mobility sector. Failure to compete effectively with other FSS operators and to adapt to new competition and new technologies or failure to implement our business strategy while maintaining our existing business could result in a loss of revenue and a decline in profitability, a decrease in the value of our business and a downgrade of our credit ratings, which could restrict our access to the capital markets. The market for fixed satellite services may not grow or may shrink and therefore we may not be able to attract new customers, retain our existing customers or implement our strategies to grow our business. In addition, pricing pressures may have an adverse impact on FSS sector revenue. The FSS sector, as a whole, has experienced growth over the past few years. However, the future market for FSS may not grow or may shrink. Competing technologies, such as fiber optic cable, are continuing to adversely affect the point-to-point segment of the 5 Table of Contents FSS sector. In the point-to-multipoint segment, economic downturns, the transition of video traffic from analog to digital and continuing improvements in compression technology, which allows for improved transmission efficiency, have negatively impacted demand for certain fixed satellite services. Developments that we expect to support the growth of the satellite services industry, such as continued growth in data traffic and the proliferation of direct-to-home (“DTH”) platforms, high definition television (“HDTV”) and niche programming, may fail to materialize or may not occur in the manner or to the extent we anticipate. Any of these industry dynamics could negatively affect our operations and financial condition. Because the market for FSS may not grow or may shrink, we may not be able to attract customers for the services that we are providing as part of our strategy to sustain and grow our business. Reduced growth in the FSS sector may also adversely affect our ability to retain our existing customers. A shrinking market could reduce the number and value of our customer contracts and would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, there could be a substantial negative impact on our credit ratings and our ability to access the capital markets. The FSS sector has in the past experienced periods of pricing pressures that have resulted in reduced revenues of FSS operators. Current pricing pressures and potential pricing pressures in the future could have a significant negative impact on our revenues and financial condition. Our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we were to suffer a satellite loss that is not adequately covered by insurance. We currently carry in-orbit insurance only with respect to a small portion of our satellite fleet, generally for a short period of time following launch. As of December 31, 2015, four of the satellites in our fleet were covered by in-orbit insurance. Amounts recoverable from in-orbit insurance coverage may initially be comparable to amounts recoverable with respect to launch insurance coverage; however, such amounts generally decrease over time and are typically based on the declining book value of the satellite. As our satellite insurance policies expire, we may elect to reduce or eliminate insurance coverage relating to certain of our satellites to the extent permitted by our debt agreements if, in our view, exclusions make such policies ineffective or the costs of coverage make such insurance impractical and we believe that we can more reasonably protect our business through the use of in-orbit spare satellites, backup transponders and self-insurance. A partial or complete failure of a revenue-producing satellite, whether insured or not, could require additional, unplanned capital expenditures, an acceleration of planned capital expenditures, interruptions in service, a reduction in contracted backlog and lost revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently insure against lost revenue in the event of total or partial loss of a satellite. We also maintain third-party liability insurance on our satellites to cover damage caused by our satellites. As of December 31, 2015, certain satellites in our fleet were covered by third-party liability insurance. This insurance, however, may not be adequate or available to cover all third-party liability damages that may be caused by any of our satellites, and we may not in the future be able to renew our third-party liability coverage on reasonable terms and conditions, if at all. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2015, on a consolidated basis, we had approximately $14.7 billion principal amount of third-party indebtedness, approximately $3.1 billion of which was secured debt. Our subsidiaries were the issuers or borrowers of this debt as follows: (a) Intelsat (Luxembourg) S.A. (“Intelsat Luxembourg”), had approximately $14.7 billion principal amount of total third-party indebtedness on a consolidated basis, approximately $3.1 billion of which was secured debt, and (b) Intelsat Jackson Holdings S.A. (“Intelsat Jackson”) had approximately $11.2 billion principal amount of total third-party indebtedness on a consolidated basis, approximately $3.1 billion of which was secured debt. Intelsat Luxembourg debt and Intelsat Jackson debt are included in our consolidated debt. The indentures and credit agreements governing a substantial portion of the outstanding debt of Intelsat Luxembourg and Intelsat Jackson and their respective subsidiaries permit each of these companies to make payments to their respective direct and indirect parent companies to fund the cash interest payments on such indebtedness, so long as no default or event of default shall have occurred and be continuing or would occur as a consequence thereof. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy obligations with respect to indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indentures governing our notes and the agreements governing such other indebtedness; 6 Table of Contents • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of available cash flow to pay principal and interest on our outstanding debt, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; • limit our ability to engage in strategic transactions or implement our business strategies; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and • place us at a disadvantage compared to any competitors that have less debt. Any of the factors listed above could materially and adversely affect our business and our results of operations. Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates rise because certain portions of our debt bear interest at floating rates. Our interest expense could also increase when we refinance debt. If we do not have sufficient cash flow to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of certain additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If we incur new indebtedness, the related risks, including those described above, could intensify. The terms of the Intelsat Jackson Secured Credit Agreement, the indentures governing our existing notes and the terms of our other indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. On January 12, 2011, Intelsat Jackson, our wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into a secured credit agreement (as amended, the “Intelsat Jackson Secured Credit Agreement”). The Intelsat Jackson Secured Credit Agreement, the indentures governing our existing notes and the terms of our other outstanding indebtedness contain, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants imposing significant operating and financial restrictions on Intelsat S.A. and some or all of its subsidiaries, including restrictions that may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. The Intelsat Jackson Secured Credit Agreement includes two financial covenants. Intelsat Jackson must maintain a consolidated secured debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio of less than or equal to 3.50 to 1.00 at the end of each fiscal quarter as well as a consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense ratio of greater than or equal to 1.75 to 1.00 at the end of each fiscal quarter, in each case as such financial measures are defined in the Intelsat Jackson Secured Credit Agreement. In addition, the Intelsat Jackson Secured Credit Agreement requires Intelsat Jackson to use a portion of the proceeds of certain asset sales, in excess of a specified amount, that are not reinvested in its business to repay indebtedness under the agreement. The Intelsat Jackson Secured Credit Agreement, the indentures governing our existing notes and the terms of our other outstanding indebtedness include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of Intelsat S.A. and its subsidiaries to: • incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified stock; • pay dividends (including to fund cash interest payments at different entity levels), or make redemptions, repurchases or distributions, with respect to ordinary shares or capital stock; • create or incur certain liens; • make certain loans or investments; • engage in mergers, acquisitions, amalgamations, asset sales and sale and leaseback transactions; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. These covenants are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our existing debt agreements and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in the Intelsat Jackson Secured Credit Agreement could result in a default under such agreement. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the Intelsat Jackson Secured Credit Agreement may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, enforce their security interest or require us to apply all available cash to repay these borrowings. If this occurred under the Intelsat Jackson Secured Credit Agreement, this would result in an event of default under our existing notes. The lenders under the Intelsat Jackson Secured Credit Agreement will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any 7 Table of Contents commitments they have to fund further borrowings. If Intelsat Jackson were unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under the Intelsat Jackson Secured Credit Agreement would have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt owed to them. If the debt under the Intelsat Jackson Secured Credit Agreement were to be accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to repay such debt in full or to repay our notes and our other debt. Our business is capital intensive and requires us to make long-term capital expenditure decisions, and we may not be able to raise adequate capital to finance our business strategies, or we may be able to do so only on terms that significantly restrict our ability to operate our business. Implementation of our business strategy requires a substantial outlay of capital. As we pursue our business strategies and seek to respond to opportunities and trends in our industry, our actual capital expenditures may differ from our expected capital expenditures and there can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy our capital requirements in the future. The nature of our business also requires us to make capital expenditure decisions in anticipation of customer demand, and we may not be able to correctly predict customer demand. We have only a fixed amount of transponder capacity available to serve a particular region. If our customer demand exceeds our transponder capacity, we may not be able to fully capture the growth in demand in the region served by that capacity. We currently expect that our liquidity requirements in 2016 will be satisfied by cash on hand, cash generated from our operations, and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. However, if we determine we need to obtain additional funds through external financing and are unable to do so, we may be prevented from fully implementing our business strategy. The availability and cost to us of external financing depend on a number of factors, including general market conditions, our financial performance and our credit rating. Both our credit rating and our ability to obtain financing generally may be influenced by the supply and demand characteristics of the telecommunications sector in general and of the FSS sector in particular. Declines in our expected future revenue under contracts with customers and challenging business conditions faced by our customers are among factors that may adversely affect our credit. Other factors that could impact our credit include the amount of debt in our current capital structure, activities associated with our strategic initiatives, our expected future cash flows and the capital expenditures required to execute our business strategy. The overall impact on our financial condition of any transaction that we pursue may be negative or may be negatively perceived by the financial markets and ratings agencies and may result in adverse rating agency actions with respect to our credit rating. A disruption in the capital markets, a deterioration in our financial performance or a credit rating downgrade could limit our ability to obtain financing or could result in any such financing being available only at greater cost or on more restrictive terms than might otherwise be available. Our debt agreements also impose restrictions on our operation of our business and could make it more difficult for us to obtain further external financing if required. See—The terms of the Intelsat Jackson Secured Credit Agreement, the indentures governing our existing notes and the terms of our other indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Long-term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty due to recent recessions, changing or increased regulation or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital. If financial market disruptions intensify, it may become difficult for us to raise additional capital or refinance debt when needed, on acceptable terms or at all. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and reducing or eliminating other discretionary uses of cash, which could adversely impact our business and our ability to execute our business strategies. We may become subject to unanticipated tax liabilities that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Intelsat S.A and certain of its subsidiaries are Luxembourg-based companies and are subject to Luxembourg taxation for corporations. We believe that a significant portion of the income derived from our communications network will not be subject to tax in certain countries in which we own assets or conduct activities or in which our customers are located, including the United States and the United Kingdom. However, this belief is based on the presently anticipated nature and conduct of our business and on our current position under the tax laws of the countries in which we own assets or conduct activities. This position is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law that may have a retroactive effect. In addition, we conduct business with customers and counterparties in multiple countries and jurisdictions. Our overall tax burden is affected by tax legislation in these jurisdictions and the terms of income tax treaties between these countries and the countries in which our subsidiaries are qualified residents for treaty purposes as in effect from time to time. Tax legislation in these countries and jurisdictions may be amended and treaties are regularly renegotiated by the contracting countries and, in each case, may change. If tax legislation or treaties were to change, we could become subject to additional taxes, including retroactive tax claims or assessments of withholding on amounts payable to us or other taxes assessed at the source, in excess of the taxation we anticipate based on business contracts and practices and the current tax regimes. The extent to which certain taxing jurisdictions may require us to pay tax or to make payments in lieu of tax cannot be determined in advance. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we become subject to a significant amount of unanticipated tax liabilities. 8 Table of Contents We are subject to political, economic, regulatory and other risks due to the international nature of our operations. We provide communications services in approximately 200 countries and territories. Accordingly, we may be subject to greater risks than other companies as a result of the international nature of our business operations. We could be harmed financially and operationally by tariffs, taxes, government sanctions and regulatory actions, and other trade barriers that may be imposed on our services, or by political and economic instability in the countries in which we provide services, for instance in countries heavily reliant on revenues from natural resources. If we ever need to pursue legal remedies against our customers or our business partners located outside of Luxembourg, the United States or the United Kingdom, it may be difficult for us to enforce our rights against them depending on their location. Substantially all of our on-going technical operations are conducted and/or managed in the United States, Luxembourg and Germany. However, providers of satellite launch services, upon which we are reliant to place our satellites into orbit, locate their operations in other countries, including Kazakhstan. Political disruptions in this country could increase the risk of launching the satellites that provide capacity for our operations, which could result in financial harm to us. Our business is subject to foreign currency risk. Almost all of our customers pay for our services in U.S. dollars, although we are exposed to some risk related to customers who do not pay in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the value of non-U.S. currencies may make payment in U.S. dollars more expensive for our non-U.S. customers, and in certain circumstances, cause us to renegotiate prices or other terms in contracts in order to retain such customers. For instance, our Russian customers and others may face difficulties paying for our services because of recent deterioration in the Russian currency and the relative strength of the U.S. dollar compared to many other currencies. In addition, our non-U.S. customers may have difficulty obtaining U.S. currency and/or remitting payment due to currency exchange controls. Our Sponsors own a significant amount of our common shares and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. Our Sponsors (as defined below in Item 4A—History and Development of the Company—The Sponsors Acquisition Transactions) beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 71% of our common shares. By virtue of their share ownership, the Sponsors may be able to influence decisions to enter into any corporate transaction or other matter that requires the approval of shareholders. Additionally, the Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and, although they do not currently hold interests in any business that competes directly or indirectly with us, may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete with us. The Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. We have several large customers and the loss of, or default by, these customers could materially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our business. A limited number of customers provide a substantial portion of our revenue and contracted backlog. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our ten largest customers and their affiliates represented approximately 29% of our revenue. The loss of, or default by, our larger customers could adversely affect our current and future revenue and operating margins. Some customers have in the past defaulted and, although we monitor our larger customers’ financial performance and seek deposits, guarantees and other methods of protection against default where possible, our customers may in the future default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure, devaluation of local currency or other reasons. Defaults by any of our larger customers or by a group of smaller customers who, collectively, represent a significant portion of our revenue could adversely affect our revenue, operating margins and cash flows. If our contracted backlog is reduced due to the financial difficulties of our customers, our revenue, operating margins and cash flows would be further negatively impacted. 9 Table of Contents Reductions or changes in U.S. government spending, including the U.S. defense budget, could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our business. The U.S. government, through the Department of Defense and other agencies, is one of our largest customers. Spending authorizations for defense-related and other programs by the U.S. government have fluctuated in the past, and future levels of expenditures and authorizations for these programs may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where we do not currently provide services. We provide services to the U.S. government and its agencies through contracts that are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis, even though contract performance may extend over many years. In recent years, there has been a pattern of delays in the finalization and approval of the U.S. government budget, which can create uncertainty over the extent of future government demand for our services. Furthermore, in light of the current geopolitical situation, with reductions in US operational presence in Iraq, Afghanistan and potentially the Middle East more generally, there may be additional future declines in the U.S. government’s demand for and use of our services. To the extent the U.S. government and its agencies reduce spending on commercial satellite services, this could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our executive officers and other members of our senior management have been a critical element of our success. These individuals have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to its growth and success. We have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers, including David McGlade, our Executive Chairman, Stephen Spengler, our Chief Executive Officer, Jacques Kerrest, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Michelle Bryan, our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Administrative Officer, Thierry Guillemin, our Executive Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Kurt Riegelman, our Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing and Michael DeMarco, our Senior Vice President, Operations, and certain targeted retention mechanisms; however, these agreements and mechanisms do not guarantee that these executives will remain with us. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our executive officers or members of senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry We may experience in-orbit satellite failures or degradations in performance that could impair the commercial performance of our satellites, which could lead to lost revenue, an increase in our cash operating expenses, lower operating income or lost backlog. Satellites utilize highly complex technology and operate in the harsh environment of space and, accordingly, are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies that have occurred in our satellites and the satellites of other operators as a result of: • the satellite manufacturer’s error, whether due to the use of new and largely unproven technology or due to a design, manufacturing or assembly defect that was not discovered before launch; • problems with the power systems of the satellites, including: • circuit failures or other array degradation causing reductions in the power output of the solar arrays on the satellites, which could cause us to lose some of our capacity, require us to forego the use of some transponders initially and to turn off additional transponders in later years; and/or • failure of the cells within the batteries, whose sole purpose is to power the payload and spacecraft operations during the daily eclipse periods which occur for brief periods of time during two 40-day periods around March 21 and September 21 of each year; and/or • problems with the control systems of the satellites, including: • failure of the primary and/or backup satellite control processor (“SCP”); and • failure of the Xenon-Ion Propulsion System (“XIPS”) used on certain Boeing satellites, which is an electronic propulsion system that maintains the spacecraft’s proper in-orbit position; and/or • general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh space environment, such as premature component failure or wear out, including: • failure of one or more gyroscope and/or associated electronics that are used to provide satellite attitude information during maneuvers. We have experienced anomalies in each of the categories described above. Although we work closely with the satellite manufacturers to determine and eliminate the cause of these anomalies in new satellites and provide for on-satellite backups for certain critical components to minimize or eliminate service disruptions in the event of failure, we may experience anomalies in the future, whether of the types described above or arising from the failure of other systems or components. These anomalies can manifest themselves in scale from minor reductions of equipment redundancy to marginal reductions in capacity to complete satellite failure. Some of our satellites have experienced significant anomalies in the past and some have components that are now known to be susceptible to similar significant anomalies. Each of these is discussed in Item 4B—Business Overview—Satellite Health and Technology. An on-satellite backup for certain components may not be available upon the occurrence of such an anomaly. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies could materially and adversely affect our operations, our revenues, our relationships with our current customers and our ability to attract new customers for our satellite services. In particular, future anomalies may result in the loss of individual transponders on a satellite, a group of transponders on that satellite or the entire satellite, depending on the nature of the anomaly and the availability of on-satellite backups. Anomalies and our estimates of their future effects may also cause a reduction of the expected service life of a satellite and contracted backlog. Anomalies may also cause a reduction of the revenue generated by that satellite or the recognition of an impairment loss, and in some circumstances could lead to claims from third parties 10 Table of Contents for damages, if a satellite experiencing an anomaly were to cause physical damage to another satellite, create interference to the transmissions on another satellite, cause other satellite operators to incur expenses to avoid such physical damage or interference or lower operating income as a result of an impairment charge. Finally, the occurrence of anomalies may adversely affect our ability to insure our satellites at commercially reasonable premiums, if at all. While some anomalies are covered by insurance policies, others are not or may not be covered. See—Risk Factors Relating to Our Business—Our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we were to suffer a satellite loss that is not adequately covered by insurance. Many of the technical problems we have experienced with our current fleet have been component failures and anomalies. Our IS-804 satellite experienced a sudden and unexpected electrical power system anomaly that resulted in the total loss of the satellite in January 2005. The IS-804 satellite was an LM 7000 series satellite, and as of December 31, 2015, we operated one other satellite in the LM 7000 series, IS-805. We believe that the IS-804 satellite failure was most likely caused by a high current event in the battery circuitry triggered by an electrostatic discharge that propagated to cause the sudden failure of the high voltage power system. Our IS-802 satellite, which was also an LM 7000 series satellite, experienced a reduction of electrical power capability that resulted in a degraded capability of the satellite in September 2006. A significant subset of transponders on IS-802 was subsequently reactivated and operated normally until the end of its service life in September 2010, when it was decommissioned. We believe that the IS-802 anomaly was most likely caused by an electrical short internal to the solar array harness located on the south solar array boom. Our Galaxy 26 and Galaxy 27 satellites experienced sudden anomalies in their electrical distribution systems that resulted in the loss of control of the satellites and the interruption of customer services on the satellites in June 2008 and November 2004, respectively. We believe the likely root cause of the anomalies is a design flaw that is affected by a number of parameters and in some extreme cases can result in an electrical system anomaly. This design flaw exists on two of our satellites, Galaxy 27 and IS-8. Galaxy 26 was decommissioned in June 2014. Our Galaxy 15 satellite experienced an anomaly in April 2010 resulting in our inability to command the satellite. We transitioned all media traffic on this satellite to our Galaxy 12 satellite, which was our designated in-orbit spare satellite for the North America region. Galaxy 15 is a Star-2 satellite manufactured by Orbital Sciences Corporation. On December 23, 2010, we recovered command of the spacecraft and subsequently completed diagnostic testing and uploading of software updates that protect against future anomalies of this type. Galaxy 15 continues to provide normal service. We may also experience additional anomalies relating to the failure of the SCP in our BSS 601 satellite (IS-26), various anomalies associated with XIPS in our BSS 601 HP satellites or a progressive degradation of the solar arrays in certain of our BSS 702 satellites. Three of the BSS 601 satellites that we operated in the past, as well as BSS 601 satellites operated by others, have experienced a failure of the primary and backup SCPs. On February 1, 2010, our IS-4 satellite experienced an anomaly of its backup SCP and was taken out of service. This event did not have a material impact on our operations or financial results. As of December 31, 2015, we operate only one BSS 601 satellite, IS-26. Certain of the BSS 601 HP satellites have experienced various problems associated with their XIPS. We currently operate four satellites of this type, three of which have experienced failures of both XIPS. We may in the future experience similar problems associated with XIPS or other propulsion systems on our satellites. Two of the three BSS 702 satellites that we operate, as well as BSS 702 satellites of a similar design operated by others, have experienced a progressive degradation of their solar arrays causing a reduction in output power. Along with the manufacturer, we continually monitor the problem to determine its cause and its expected effect. The power reduction may require us to permanently turn off certain transponders on the affected satellites to allow for the continued operation of other transponders, which could result in a loss of revenues, or may result in a reduction of the satellite’s service life. In 2004, based on a review of available data, we reduced our estimate of the service lives of both satellites due to the continued degradation. On April 22, 2011, our IS-28 satellite, formerly known as the Intelsat New Dawn satellite, was launched into orbit. Subsequent to the launch, the satellite experienced an anomaly during the deployment of its west antenna reflector, which controls communications in the C-band frequency. The anomaly had not been experienced previously on other STAR satellites manufactured by Orbital Sciences Corporation, including those in our fleet. The New Dawn joint venture filed a partial loss claim with its insurers relating to the C-band antenna reflector anomaly and all of the insurance proceeds from the partial loss claim were received in 2011. The Ku-band antenna reflector deployed and that portion of the satellite is operating as planned, entering service in June 2011. A Failure Review Board established to determine the cause of the anomaly completed its investigation in July 2011 and concluded that the deployment anomaly of the C-band reflector was most likely due to a malfunction of the reflector sunshield. As a result, the 11 Table of Contents sunshield interfered with the ejection release mechanism, and prevented the deployment of the C-band antenna. The Failure Review Board also recommended corrective actions for Orbital Sciences Corporation satellites not yet launched to prevent reoccurrence of the anomaly. Appropriate corrective actions were implemented on IS-18, which was successfully launched on October 5, 2011, and on IS-23, which was launched in October 2012. During launch operations of IS-19 on June 1, 2012, the satellite experienced damage to its south solar array. Although both solar arrays are deployed, the power available to the satellite is less than is required to operate 100% of the payload capacity. The Independent Oversight Board (“IOB”) formed by Space Systems/Loral, LLC (“SSL”) and Sea Launch to investigate the solar array deployment anomaly. The IOB concluded that the anomaly occurred before the spacecraft separated from the launch vehicle, during the ascent phase of the launch, and originated in one of the satellite’s two solar array wings due to a rare combination of factors in the panel fabrication and unrelated to the launch vehicle. While the satellite is operational, the anomaly resulted in structural and electrical damage to one solar array wing, which reduced the amount of power available for payload operation. Additionally, we filed a partial loss claim with our insurers relating to the solar array anomaly. We received $84.8 million of insurance proceeds related to the claim in 2013. As planned, IS-19 followed IS-8 at 166°E, in August 2012. We may experience a launch failure or other satellite damage or destruction during launch, which could result in a total or partial satellite loss. A new satellite could also fail to achieve its designated orbital location after launch. Any such loss of a satellite could negatively impact our business plans and could reduce our revenue. Satellites are subject to certain risks related to failed launches. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take 24 months or longer, and to obtain other launch opportunities. Such significant delays could materially and adversely affect our operations and our revenue. In addition, significant delays could give customers who have purchased or reserved capacity on that satellite a right to terminate their service contracts relating to the satellite. We may not be able to accommodate affected customers on other satellites until a replacement satellite is available. A customer’s termination of its service contracts with us as a result of a launch failure would reduce our contracted backlog. Delay caused by launch failures may also preclude us from pursuing new business opportunities and undermine our ability to implement our business strategy. Launch vehicles may also under-perform, in which case the satellite may still be placed into service by using its onboard propulsion systems to reach the desired orbital location, resulting in a reduction in its service life. In addition, although we have had launch insurance on all of our launches to date, if we were not able to obtain launch insurance on reasonable terms and a launch failure were to occur, we would directly suffer the loss of the cost of the satellite and related costs, which could be more than $250 million. On February 1, 2013, the launch vehicle for our IS-27 satellite failed shortly after liftoff and the satellite was completely destroyed. A Failure Review Board was established and subsequently concluded that the launch failed due to the mechanical failure of one of the first stage engine’s thrust control components. The satellite and launch vehicle were fully insured, and all of the insurance proceeds from the loss claim were received in 2013. Since 1975, we and the entities we have acquired and launched 126 satellites. Including the IS-27 satellite, nine of these satellites were destroyed as a result of launch failures, six of which occurred prior to 1995. In addition, certain launch vehicles that we have used or are scheduled to use have experienced launch failures in the past. Launch failure rates vary according to the launch vehicle used. As of December 31, 2015, we had 10 satellites in development that are expected to be launched from 2016 to 2018. See Item 5B—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Expenditures. 12 Table of Contents New or proposed satellites are subject to construction and launch delays, the occurrence of which can materially and adversely affect our operations. The construction and launch of satellites are subject to certain delays. Such delays can result from delays in the construction of satellites and launch vehicles, the periodic unavailability of reliable launch opportunities, possible delays in obtaining regulatory approvals and launch failures. We have in the past experienced delays in satellite construction and launch which have adversely affected our operations. Future delays may have the same effect. A significant delay in the future delivery of any satellite may also adversely affect our marketing plan for the satellite. If satellite construction schedules are not met, a launch opportunity may not be available at the time a satellite is ready to be launched. Further, any significant delay in the commencement of service of any of our satellites could enable customers who pre-purchased or agreed to utilize transponder capacity on the satellite to terminate their contracts and could affect our plans to replace an in-orbit satellite prior to the end of its service life. The failure to implement our satellite deployment plan on schedule could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Delays in the launch of a satellite intended to replace an existing satellite that results in the existing satellite reaching its end of life before being replaced could result in loss of business to the extent an in-orbit backup is not available. As of December 31, 2015, we had 10 satellites in development that are expected to be launched from 2016 to 2018. See Item 5B—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Expenditures. Our dependence on outside contractors could result in increased costs and delays related to the launch of our new satellites, which would in turn adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. There is a limited number of companies that we are able to use to launch our satellites and a limited number of commercial satellite launch opportunities available in any given time period. Adverse events with respect to our launch service providers, such as satellite launch failures or financial difficulties (which some of these providers have previously experienced), could result in increased costs or delays in the launch of our satellites. General economic conditions may also affect the ability of launch providers to provide launch services on commercially reasonable terms or to fulfill their obligations in terms of launch dates, pricing, or both. In the event that our launch service providers are unable to fulfill their obligations, we may have difficulty procuring alternative services in a timely manner and may incur significant additional expenses as a result. Any such increased costs and delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. A natural disaster could diminish our ability to provide communications service. Natural disasters could damage or destroy our ground stations, resulting in a disruption of service to our customers. We currently have the technology to safeguard our antennas and protect our ground stations during natural disasters such as a hurricane, but the collateral effects of such disasters such as flooding may impair the functioning of our ground equipment. If a future natural disaster impairs or destroys any of our ground facilities, we may be unable to provide service to our customers in the affected area for a period of time and may incur an impairment charge lowering our operating income. Risk Factors Relating to Regulation We are subject to orbital slot/spectrum access requirements of the International Telecommunication Union (“ITU”) and regulatory and licensing requirements in each of the countries in which we provide services, and our business is sensitive to regulatory changes internationally and in those countries. The telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and we depend on access to orbital slots and spectrum resources to provide satellite services. The ITU and national regulators allocate spectrum for satellite services, and may change these allocations, which could change or limit how Intelsat’s current satellites are able to be used. In addition, in connection with providing satellite capacity, ground network uplinks, downlinks and other value-added services to our customers, we need to maintain regulatory approvals, and from time to time obtain new regulatory approvals, from various countries. Obtaining and maintaining these approvals can involve significant time and expense. If we cannot obtain or are delayed in obtaining the required regulatory approvals, we may not be able to provide these services to our customers or expand into new services. In addition, the laws and regulations to which we are subject could change at any time, thus making it more difficult for us to obtain new regulatory approvals or causing our existing approvals to be revoked or adversely modified. Because the regulatory schemes vary by country, we may also be subject to regulations of which we are not presently aware and could be subject to sanctions by a foreign government that could materially and adversely affect our operations in that country. If we cannot comply with the laws and regulations that apply to us, we could lose our revenue from services provided to the countries and territories covered by these laws and regulations and be subject to criminal or civil sanctions. 13 Table of Contents If we do not maintain regulatory authorizations for our existing satellites and associated ground facilities or obtain authorizations for our future satellites and associated ground facilities, we may not be able to operate our existing satellites or expand our operations. The operation of our existing satellites is authorized and regulated by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”), the U.K. Office of Communications (“Ofcom”) and the U.K. Space Agency (“UKSA”), the National Information & Communications Technology Authority of Papua New Guinea (“NICTA”), the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications of Japan, and the Bundesnetzagentur (“BNetzA”) in Germany. We believe our current operations are in compliance with FCC and non-U.S. licensing jurisdiction requirements. However, if we do not maintain the authorizations necessary to operate our existing satellites, we will not be able to operate the satellites covered by those authorizations, unless we obtain authorization from another licensing jurisdiction. Some of our authorizations provide waivers of technical regulations. If we do not maintain these waivers, we will be subject to operational restrictions or interference that will affect our use of existing satellites. Loss of a satellite authorization could cause us to lose the revenue from services provided by that satellite at a particular orbital location to the extent these services cannot be provided by satellites at other orbital locations. Our launch and operation of planned satellites requires additional regulatory authorizations from the FCC or a non-U.S. licensing jurisdiction. Likewise, if any of our current operations are deemed not in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to various sanctions, including fines, loss of authorizations, or denial of applications for new authorizations or renewal of existing authorizations. It is not uncommon for licenses for new satellites to be granted just prior to launch, and we expect to receive such licenses for all planned satellites. If we do not obtain required authorizations in the future, we will not be able to operate our planned satellites. If we obtain a required authorization but we do not meet milestones regarding the construction, launch and operation of a satellite by deadlines that may be established in the authorization, we may lose our authorization to operate a satellite using certain frequencies in an orbital location. Any authorizations we obtain may also impose operational restrictions or permit interference that could affect our use of planned satellites. If we do not occupy unused orbital locations by specified deadlines, or do not maintain satellites in orbital locations we currently use, those orbital locations may become available for other satellite operators to use. If we are unable to place satellites into currently unused orbital locations by specified deadlines and in a manner that satisfies the ITU, or national regulatory requirements, or if we are unable to maintain satellites at the orbital locations that we currently use, we may lose our rights and/or priority to use these orbital locations, and the locations with ITU priority could become available for other satellite operators to use. The loss of one or more of our orbital locations could negatively affect our plans and our ability to implement our business strategy. Coordination results may adversely affect our ability to use a satellite at a given orbital location for our proposed service or coverage area. We are required to record frequencies and orbital locations used by our satellites with the ITU and to coordinate with other satellite operators and national administrations the use of these frequencies and orbital locations in order to avoid interference to or from other satellites. The results of coordination may adversely affect our use of satellites at particular orbital locations, as well as the type of applications or services that we can accommodate. If we are unable to coordinate our satellites by specified deadlines, we may not be able to use a satellite at a given orbital location for our proposed service or coverage area. The use of our satellites may also be temporarily or permanently adversely affected if the operation of adjacent satellite networks does not conform to coordination agreements resulting in the acceptable interference levels being exceeded (e.g., due to operational errors associated with the transmissions to adjacent satellite networks). Our failure to maintain or obtain authorizations under the U.S. export control and trade sanctions laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The export of satellites and technical data related to satellites, earth station equipment and provision of services are subject to U.S. State Department, U.S. Commerce Department and U.S. Treasury Department regulations. If we do not maintain our existing authorizations or obtain necessary future authorizations under the export control laws and regulations of the United States, we may be unable to export technical data or equipment to non-U.S. persons and companies, including to our own non-U.S. employees, as required to fulfill existing contracts. If we do not maintain our existing authorizations or obtain necessary future authorizations under the trade sanctions laws and regulations of the United States, we may not be able to provide satellite capacity and related administrative services to certain countries subject to U.S. sanctions. Our ability to acquire new satellites, launch new satellites or operate our satellites could also be negatively affected if our suppliers do not obtain required U.S. export authorizations. 14 Table of Contents If we do not maintain required security clearances from, and comply with our agreements with, the U.S. Department of Defense, or if we do not comply with U.S. law, we may not be able to continue to perform our obligations under U.S. government contracts. To participate in classified U.S. government programs, we sought and obtained security clearances for one of our subsidiaries from the U.S. Department of Defense. Given our foreign ownership, we entered into a proxy agreement with the U.S. government that limits our ability to control the operations of this subsidiary, as required under the national security laws and regulations of the United States. If we do not maintain these security clearances, we will not be able to perform our obligations under any classified U.S. government contracts to which our subsidiary is a party, the U.S. government would have the right to terminate our contracts requiring access to classified information and we will not be able to enter into new classified contracts. As a result, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Further, if we materially violate the terms of the proxy agreement or if we are found to have materially violated U.S. law, we or the subsidiary holding the security clearances may be suspended or barred from performing any government contracts, whether classified or unclassified, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. 