Item 1A. Risk Factors Common units are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient distributable cash flow following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders. In order to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.4125 per unit per quarter, or $1.65 per unit on an annualized basis, we will require distributable cash flow of approximately $8.3 million per quarter, or approximately $33.2 million per year, based on the number of common and subordinated units currently outstanding. We may not have sufficient distributable cash flow each quarter to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • Competition from other companies that sell refined products, natural gas and/or renewable fuels in the Northeast; • Competition from other companies in the materials handling business; • Demand for refined products, natural gas and our materials handling services in the markets we serve; • Absolute price levels, as well as the volatility of prices, of refined products and natural gas in both the spot and futures markets; • Seasonal variation in temperatures, which affects demand for natural gas and refined products such as home heating oil and residual fuel oil to the extent that it is used for space heating; and • Prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of distributable cash flow that we distribute will depend on other factors such as: • The level of maintenance capital expenditures we make; • The level of our operating and general and administrative expenses, including reimbursements to our general partner and certain of its affiliates for services provided to us; • The restrictions contained in our credit agreement, including borrowing base limitations and limitations on distributions; • Our debt service requirements; • The cost of acquisitions we make, if any; • Fluctuations in our working capital needs; • Our ability to access capital markets and to borrow under our credit agreement to make distributions to our unitholders; and • The amount of cash reserves established by our general partner, if any. 10 Table of Contents Our distributable cash flow depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which may prevent us from making cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Our distributable cash flow depends primarily on our cash flow, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Our business is seasonal and generally our financial results are lower in the second and third quarters of the calendar year, which may result in our need to borrow money in order to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders during these quarters. Demand for natural gas and some refined products, specifically home heating oil and residual fuel oil for space heating purposes, is generally higher during the period of November through March than during the period of April through October. Therefore, our results of operations for the first and fourth calendar quarters are generally better than for the second and third calendar quarters. For example, over the 36-month period ended December 31, 2013, we generated an average of approximately 69% of our total home heating oil and residual fuel oil net sales during the months of November through March. With reduced cash flow during the second and third calendar quarters, we may be required to borrow money in order to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders. Any restrictions on our ability to borrow money could restrict our ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. A significant decrease in demand for refined products, natural gas or our materials handling services in the areas we serve would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. A significant decrease in demand for refined products, natural gas or our materials handling services in the areas that we serve would significantly reduce our net sales and, therefore, adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand for refined products or natural gas include: • Recession or other adverse economic conditions; • High prices caused by an increase in the market price of refined products, higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase, directly or indirectly, the cost of gasoline or other refined products or natural gas; • Increased conservation, technological advances and the availability of alternative energy, whether as a result of industry changes, governmental or regulatory actions or otherwise; and • Conversion from consumption of home heating oil or residual fuel oil to natural gas. Factors that could lead to a decrease in demand for our materials handling services include weakness in the housing and construction industries and the economy generally. Certain of our operating costs and expenses are fixed and do not vary with the volumes we store, distribute and sell. These costs and expenses may not decrease ratably, or at all, should we experience a reduction in our volumes stored, distributed and sold. As a result, we may experience declines in our operating margin if our volumes decrease. 11 Table of Contents Our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders are influenced by changes in demand for, and therefore indirectly by changes in the prices of, refined products and natural gas, which could adversely affect our profit margins, our customers’ and suppliers’ financial condition, contract performance, trade credit and the amount and cost of our borrowing under our credit agreement. Financial and operating results from our purchasing, storing, terminalling and selling operations are influenced by price volatility in the markets for refined products and natural gas. When prices for refined products and natural gas rise, some of our customers may have insufficient credit to purchase supply from us at their historical purchase volumes, and their customers, in turn, may adopt conservation measures which reduce consumption, thereby reducing demand for product. Furthermore, when prices increase rapidly and dramatically, we may be unable to promptly pass our additional costs to our customers, resulting in lower margins for a period of time before margins expand to cover the incremental costs. Significant increases in the costs of refined products can materially increase our costs to carry inventory. We use the working capital facility in our credit agreement, which limits the amounts that we can borrow, as our primary source of financing our working capital requirements. Lastly, higher prices for refined products or natural gas may (1) diminish our access to trade credit support or cause it to become more expensive and (2) decrease the amount of borrowings available for working capital as a result of total available commitments, borrowing base limitations and advance rates thereunder. In addition, when prices for refined products or natural gas decline, the likelihood of nonperformance by our customers on forward contracts may be increased as they and/or their customers may choose not to honor their contracts and instead purchase refined products or natural gas at the then lower spot or retail market price. Restrictions in our credit agreement could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders as well as the value of our common units. We will be dependent upon the earnings and cash flow generated by our operations in order to meet our debt service obligations and to allow us to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit agreement and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business, which may, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. For example, our credit agreement restricts our ability to, among other things: • Make cash distributions; • Incur indebtedness; • Create liens; • Make investments; • Engage in transactions with affiliates; • Make any material change to the nature of our business; • Dispose of assets; and • Merge with another company or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Furthermore, our credit agreement contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. The provisions of our credit agreement may affect our ability to obtain future financing for and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our credit agreement could result in an event of default which could enable our lenders, subject to the terms and conditions of our credit agreement, to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were 12 Table of Contents unable to repay the accelerated amounts, our lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such debt. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, defaults under our other debt instruments, if any, may be triggered and our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. Our future level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: • Our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes may be impaired, or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • Our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt; • We may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • Our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to maintain our indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or issuing equity. We may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. Warmer weather conditions during winter could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Weather conditions during winter have an impact on the demand for both home heating oil and residual fuel oil. Because we supply distributors whose customers depend on home heating oil and residual fuel oil during the winter, warmer-than-normal temperatures during the first and fourth calendar quarters in one or more regions in which we operate can decrease the total volume we sell and the gross margin realized on those sales and, consequently, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Derivatives legislation could have an adverse impact on our ability to use derivatives to reduce the effect of commodity price risk, interest rate risk, and other risks associated with our business and could have an adverse impact on the cost of our hedging activities. We use over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives products to hedge commodity risks and interest rate risks. On July 21, 2010 comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), was enacted that changes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, including us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act the CFTC has issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions would be exempt from these position limits. The position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Colombia in September of 2012 although the CFTC appealed the District Court’s decision. 13 Table of Contents The CFTC also has finalized other regulations, including critical rulemakings on the definition of “swap”, “security-based swap”, “swap dealer” and “major swap participant”. The Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules also may require us in connection with certain derivatives activities to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). In addition new regulations may require us to comply with margin requirements although these regulations are not finalized and their application to us is uncertain at this time. Other regulations also remain to be finalized, and the CFTC has delayed the compliance dates for various regulations already finalized. As a result it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules on us and the timing of such effects. The Dodd-Frank Act also may require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including from swap recordkeeping and reporting requirements and through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable. Our risk management policies, processes and procedures cannot eliminate all commodity price risk or basis risk, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. In addition, any noncompliance with our risk management policies, processes and procedures could result in significant financial losses. While our risk management policies, processes and procedures are designed to limit commodity price risk, some degree of exposure to unforeseen fluctuations in market conditions remains. For example, we change our hedged position daily in response to movements in our inventory. If we overestimate or underestimate our sales from inventory, we may be unhedged for the amount of the overestimate or underestimate. In general, basis risk describes the inherent market price risk created when a commodity of certain grade or location is purchased, sold or exchanged as compared to a purchase, sale or exchange of a like commodity at a different time or place. Basis may reflect price differentiation associated with different time periods, qualities or grades, or locations and is typically calculated based on the price difference between the cash or spot price of a commodity and the prompt month futures or swaps contract price of the most comparable commodity. For example, if NYMEX heating oil, which is based on New York Harbor delivery, was used to hedge our commodity risk for heating oil purchases, we could have location basis risk if the deliveries were made in a different location such as in Boston. An example of quality or grade basis risk would be the use of heating oil contracts to hedge diesel fuel. The potential exposure from basis risk is in addition to any impact that market pricing structure may have on our results. Basis risk cannot be entirely eliminated and basis exposure can adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. We monitor policies, processes and procedures designed to prevent unauthorized trading and to maintain substantial balance between purchases and sales or future delivery obligations. We can provide no assurance, however, that these steps will detect and/or prevent all violations of such risk management policies, processes and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. We are exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by our customers, suppliers and counterparties. Some of our customers, suppliers and counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. A tightening of credit in the financial markets or an increase in interest rates may 14 Table of Contents make it more difficult for our customers, suppliers and counterparties to obtain financing and, depending on the degree to which it occurs, there may be a material increase in the nonpayment or other nonperformance by our customers, suppliers and counterparties. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with these third parties. A material increase in the nonpayment or other nonperformance by our customers, suppliers and/or counterparties could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Additionally, our access to trade credit support could diminish or become more expensive. Our ability to continue to receive sufficient trade credit on commercially acceptable terms could be adversely affected by, among other things, fluctuations in refined product, natural gas and renewable fuel prices or disruptions in the credit markets. We are exposed to performance risk in our supply chain. We rely upon our suppliers to timely produce the volumes and types of refined products for which they contract with us. In the event one or more of our suppliers does not perform in accordance with its contractual obligations, we may be required to purchase product on the open market to satisfy forward contracts we have entered into with our customers in reliance upon such supply arrangements. We purchase refined products from a variety of suppliers under term contracts and on the spot market. In times of extreme market demand, we may be unable to satisfy our supply requirements. Furthermore, a portion of our supply comes from other countries, which could be disrupted by political events. In the event such supply becomes scarce, whether as a result of political events, natural disaster, logistical issues associated with delivery schedules or otherwise, we may not be able to satisfy our supply requirements. If any of these events were to occur, we may be required to pay more for product that we purchase on the open market, which could result in financial losses and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Some of our competitors have capital resources many times greater than ours and control greater supplies of refined products and natural gas. Competitors able to supply our customers with those products and services at a lower price could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Our competitors include terminal companies, major integrated oil companies and their marketing affiliates and independent marketers of varying size, financial resources and experience. Some of our competitors are substantially larger than us, have capital resources many times greater than ours, control greater supplies of refined products and natural gas than us and/or control substantially greater storage capacity than us. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose existing customers or fail to acquire new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and distributable cash flow. For example, if a competitor attempts to increase market share by reducing prices or offering alternative energy sources, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. We may not be able to compete successfully with these companies. Some of our home heating oil and residual fuel oil volumes are subject to customers switching or converting to natural gas, which could result in loss of customers and, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Our home heating oil and residual fuel oil businesses compete for customers with suppliers of natural gas. During a period of increasing home heating oil prices relative to natural gas prices, home heating oil users may convert to natural gas. Similarly, during a period of increasing residual fuel oil prices relative to natural gas prices, customers who have the ability to switch from residual fuel oil to natural gas (dual-fuel using customers), may switch and other end users may convert to natural gas. 15 Table of Contents Such switching and conversions could reduce our sales of home heating oil and residual fuel oil and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Energy efficiency, new technology and alternative energy sources could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Increased conservation, technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, and the availability of alternative energy sources have adversely affected the demand for some of our products, particularly home heating oil and residual fuel oil. Future conservation measures, technological advances in heating, conservation, energy generation or other devices, and increased availability and use of alternative energy sources, including as a result of government regulation, might reduce demand and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. A principal focus of our business strategy is to grow and expand our business through acquisitions. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth may be limited and any acquisitions we make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. A principal focus of our business strategy is to grow and expand our business through acquisitions. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in the cash generated per unit from operations. If we are unable to make accretive acquisitions, either because we are (1) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (2) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or (3) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, such acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • Mistaken assumptions about volumes, cash flows, net sales and costs, including synergies; • An inability to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire; • An inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our newly acquired assets; • The assumption of unknown liabilities; • Limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • Mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt used to finance an acquisition; • The diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns; • Unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and • Customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. A portion of our net sales is generated under contracts that must be renegotiated or replaced periodically. If we are unable to successfully renegotiate or replace these contracts, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Most of our contracts with our refined products customers are for a single season or on a spot basis, while most of our contracts with our natural gas customers are for a term of one year or less. As these contracts and our 16 Table of Contents materials handling contracts expire from time to time, they must be renegotiated or replaced. We may be unable to renegotiate or replace these contracts when they expire, and the terms of any renegotiated contracts may not be as favorable as the contracts they replace. Whether these contracts are successfully renegotiated or replaced is often subject to factors beyond our control. Such factors include fluctuations in refined product and natural gas prices, counterparty ability to pay for or accept the contracted volumes and a competitive marketplace for the services we offer. While our materials handling contracts are generally long-term, they are also subject to periodic renegotiation or replacement. If we cannot successfully renegotiate or replace any of our contracts, or if we renegotiate or replace them on less favorable terms, net sales and margins from these contracts could decline and our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Due to our lack of geographic diversification, adverse developments in the terminals we use or in our operating areas would adversely affect our results of operations and distributable cash flow. We rely primarily on sales generated from products distributed from the terminals we own or control or to which we have access. Furthermore, substantially all of our operations are located in the Northeast. Due to our lack of geographic diversification, an adverse development in the businesses or areas in which we operate, including adverse developments due to catastrophic events or weather and decreases in demand for refined products, could have a significantly greater impact on our results of operations and distributable cash flow than if we operated in more diverse locations. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. Our operations are subject to many operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions inherent in our business, including: • Damage to storage facilities and other assets caused by tornadoes, hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, fires, explosions, extreme weather conditions and other natural disasters; • Acts or threats of terrorism; • Unanticipated equipment and mechanical failures at our facilities; • Disruptions in supply infrastructure or logistics and other events beyond our control; • Operator error; and • Environmental pollution or other environmental issues. If any of these events were to occur, we could incur substantial losses because of personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage resulting in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. We may be unable to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we believe to be appropriate for our business at reasonable rates or at all. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased over the past four years and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Certain types of risks, such as fines and penalties, or remediation or damages claims from environmental pollution, are either not covered by insurance or applicable insurance may be unavailable for particular claims based on exclusions or limitations in the policies. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. 17 Table of Contents Our terminalling and materials handling operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and operational safety that require us to incur substantial costs and that may become more stringent over time. The risk of substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in terminalling and materials handling operations, and we may incur substantial environmental costs and liabilities. In particular, our terminalling operations involve the receipt, storage and redelivery of refined products and are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations regulating product quality specifications and other environmental matters including the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, operational safety and related matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations increases our overall cost of business, including our capital costs to maintain and upgrade equipment and facilities. Further, we may incur increased costs because of stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from noncompliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. We utilize a number of terminals that are owned and operated by third parties who are also subject to these stringent federal, state and local environmental laws in their operations. Compliance with these requirements could increase the cost of doing business with these facilities and there can be no assurances as to the timing and type of such changes or what the ultimate costs might be. Moreover, the failure to comply with these requirements can expose our operations to fines, penalties and injunctive relief. The risks of spills and releases and the associated liabilities for investigation, remediation and third-party claims, if any, are inherent in terminalling operations, and the liabilities that we incur may be substantial. Our operation of refined products terminals and storage facilities is inherently subject to the risks of spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or other hazardous substances. If any of these events have previously occurred or occur in the future, whether in connection with any of our storage facilities or terminals, any other facility to which we send or have sent wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal or on any property which we own or have owned, we could be liable for all costs, jointly and severally, and administrative, civil and criminal penalties associated with the investigation and remediation of such facilities under federal, state and local environmental laws or the common law. We may also be held liable for damages to natural resources, personal injury or property damage claims from third parties, including the owners of properties located near our terminals and those with whom we do business, alleging contamination from spills or releases from our facilities or operations. Even if we are insured against certain or all of such risks, we may be responsible for all such costs to the extent our insurers or indemnitors do not fulfill their obligations to us. The payment of such costs or penalties could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for refined products as a fuel source, which could in turn reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Combustion of fossil fuels, such as the refined products we sell, results in the emission of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. On December 15, 2009, the Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes, and the EPA has begun to regulate greenhouse gases, or GHG, emissions pursuant to the Clean Air Act. Many states and regions have adopted GHG initiatives and it is possible that federal legislation could be adopted in the future to restrict GHG emissions. There are many regulatory approaches currently in effect or being considered to address greenhouse gases, including possible future U.S. treaty commitments, new federal or state legislation that may impose a carbon emissions tax or establish a cap-and-trade program and regulation by the EPA. Future international, federal and state initiatives to control carbon dioxide emissions could result in increased costs associated with refined 18 Table of Contents products consumption, such as costs to install additional controls to reduce carbon dioxide emissions or costs to purchase emissions reduction credits to comply with future emissions trading programs. Such increased costs could result in reduced demand for refined products and some customers switching to alternative sources of fuel which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the product quality specifications of the refined products we purchase, store, transport and sell. Various federal, state and local government agencies have the authority to prescribe specific product quality specifications to the sale of commodities. Changes in product quality specifications, such as reduced sulfur content in refined products, or other more stringent requirements for fuels, could reduce our ability to procure product and require us to incur additional handling costs and capital expenditures. If we are unable to procure product or recover these costs through increased sales, we may not be able to meet our financial obligations. We depend on unionized labor for our operations in Lawrence, Mt. Vernon and Albany, New York and in Providence, Rhode Island. Work stoppages or labor disturbances at these facilities could disrupt our business. Work stoppages or labor disturbances by our unionized labor force could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and distributable cash flow. In addition, employees who are not currently represented by labor unions may seek representation in the future, and renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements may result in agreements with terms that are less favorable to us than our current agreements. We rely on our information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of our business, and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. We depend on our information technology, or IT, systems to manage numerous aspects of our business and to provide analytical information to management. Our IT systems are an essential component of our business and growth strategies, and a serious disruption to our IT systems could limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently. These systems are vulnerable to, among other things, damage and interruption from power loss or natural disasters, computer system and network failures, loss of telecommunication services, physical and electronic loss of data, security breaches and computer viruses. We employ back-up IT facilities and have disaster recovery plans; however, these safeguards may not entirely prevent delays or other complications that could arise from an IT systems failure, a natural disaster or a security breach. Significant failure or interruption in our IT systems could cause our business and competitive position to suffer and damage our reputation, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Prior to our IPO, we had not been required to file reports with the SEC. In connection with the completion of our IPO, we became subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, but our internal accounting controls may not currently meet all standards applicable to companies with publicly traded securities. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial 19 Table of Contents processes and reporting in the future or comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as Section 404. For example, Section 404 will require us, among other things, to annually review and report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We must comply with Section 404 for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2014. Any failure to develop, implement or maintain effective internal controls, or to improve our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm’s conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal controls, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Ineffective internal controls will subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us It is our business strategy to distribute most of our distributable cash flow, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We expect that we will distribute most of our distributable cash flow to our unitholders and will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we distribute most of our distributable cash flow, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our credit agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the cash that we have available to distribute to our unitholders. Axel Johnson indirectly controls, our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner and its affiliates, including Axel Johnson, may have conflicts of interest with us and have limited duties to us and our common unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our common unitholders. Axel Johnson, through its ownership of Sprague Holdings, indirectly owns a 57.8% limited partner interest in us and indirectly owns and controls our general partner. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in good faith, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is beneficial to its owner, Sprague Holdings, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Axel Johnson. Furthermore, certain directors and officers of our general partner are directors and/or officers of affiliates of our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise between our general partner and its affiliates, including Axel Johnson, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including Axel Johnson, over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as its affiliates, including Axel Johnson, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its duty to our unitholders. • Affiliates of our general partner, including Axel Johnson and Sprague Holdings, may engage in competition with us. 20 Table of Contents • Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Axel Johnson or Sprague Holdings to pursue a business strategy that favors us, and Axel Johnson’s directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of Axel Johnson. • Some officers of our general partner who provide services to us devote time to affiliates of our general partner. • Our partnership agreement limits the liability of and reduces the duties owed by our general partner to us and our common unitholders, and also restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. • Except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and the creation, reductions or increases of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders, including distributions on our subordinated units, and to the holders of the incentive distribution rights, as well as the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces distributable cash flow. Such determination can affect the amount of distributable cash flow, including distributions on our subordinated units, and to the holders of the incentive distribution rights, as well as the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units. Our partnership agreement does not limit the amount of maintenance capital expenditures that our general partner can cause us to make. • Our partnership agreement and the services agreement allow our general partner to determine, in good faith, the expenses that are allocable to us. Our partnership agreement and the services agreement do not limit the amount of expenses for which our general partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. These expenses include salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to persons, including affiliates of our general partner, who perform services for us or on our behalf. • Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period. • Our partnership agreement permits us to distribute up to $25.0 million as distributable cash flow, even if it is generated from sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus, and this cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or the incentive distribution rights. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of its affiliates on our behalf. • Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations. • Our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of all outstanding common units. • Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates. • Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. • Sprague Holdings, or any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. 21 Table of Contents Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including their executive officers, directors and owners. Other than as provided in our omnibus agreement, any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. Other than under our credit agreement, our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner’s duty to act in good faith, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of distributable cash flow otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s duties to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that modify and reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, or otherwise free of fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include: • How to allocate business opportunities among us and its other affiliates; • Whether to exercise its limited call right; • How to exercise its voting rights with respect to any units it owns; • Whether to exercise its registration rights with respect to any units it owns; and • Whether to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: • Provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such 22 Table of Contents determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity; • Provides that a determination, other action or failure to act by our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) will be deemed to be in good faith unless our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof believed such determination, other action or failure to act was adverse to the interests of the partnership; • Provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith; • Provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • Provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is: (1) Approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; or (2) Approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, taking any action or failing to act, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Cost reimbursements and fees due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf, which may be determined in our general partner’s sole discretion, may be substantial and will reduce our distributable cash flow. Under our partnership agreement, prior to making any distribution on the common units, our general partner and its affiliates shall be reimbursed for all costs and expenses that they incur on our behalf for managing and controlling our business and operations. Pursuant to the terms of the services agreement, our general partner will agree to provide certain general and administrative services and operational services to us, and we will agree to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all costs and expenses incurred in connection with providing such services to us, including salary, bonus, incentive compensation, insurance premiums and other amounts allocable to the employees and directors of our general partner or its affiliates that perform services on our behalf. Our general partner and its affiliates also may provide us other services for which we may be charged fees as determined by our general partner. Our partnership agreement and the services agreement do not limit the amount of expenses for which our general partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. Payments to our general partner and its affiliates may be substantial and will reduce the amount of distributable cash flow. Unitholders have limited voting rights and, even if they are dissatisfied, cannot remove our general partner without its consent. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. 23 Table of Contents Unitholders did not elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner and will have no right to elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by Sprague Holdings, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Axel Johnson and the sole member of our general partner. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. The unitholders will be unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding common units and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. Sprague Holdings owns 57.8% of the common units and subordinated units. If our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and no units held by the holders of our subordinated units or their affiliates are voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests, and by eliminating existing arrangements, if any. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud or willful misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of our business. Furthermore, unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units resulting in ownership of at or in excess of such levels with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in the partnership agreement on the ability of Sprague Holdings to transfer its membership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new members of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with their own choices and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. The incentive distribution rights held by Sprague Holdings may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Sprague Holdings may transfer the incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If Sprague Holdings transfers the incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its ownership interest in our general partner, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if Sprague Holdings had retained ownership of the incentive distribution rights. For example, a transfer of incentive distribution rights by 24 Table of Contents Sprague Holdings could reduce the likelihood of Axel Johnson accepting offers made by us relating to assets owned by it, as Axel Johnson would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn may impact our ability to grow our asset base. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders. Further, neither our partnership agreement nor our credit agreement prohibits the issuance of equity securities that may effectively rank senior to our common units. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • Our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • The amount of distributable cash flow on each unit may decrease; • Because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution borne by our common unitholders will increase; • The ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • The relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • The market price of our common units may decline. Sprague Holdings may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. As of March 20, 2014, Sprague Holdings holds 1,571,970 common units and 10,071,970 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period (which could occur as early as December 31, 2016) and may convert earlier under certain circumstances. Additionally, we have agreed to provide Sprague Holdings with certain registration rights (which may facilitate the sale by Sprague Holdings of its common and subordinated units into the public markets). The sale of these units in the public or private markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in our common units is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly traded limited partnership interests. Reduced demand for our common units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. Our general partner’s discretion in establishing cash reserves may reduce the amount of distributable cash flow that we distribute. The partnership agreement permits the general partner to reduce the amount of distributable cash flow distributed to our unitholders by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to make cash distributions, even where the purpose or effect of the borrowing benefits the general partner or its affiliates. In some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds from its affiliates, including Axel Johnson, or from third parties in order to permit the payment of cash distributions. These borrowings are 25 Table of Contents permitted even if the purpose and effect of the borrowing is to enable us to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to hasten the expiration of the subordination period. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of our common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price, including at a price below the then-current market price, and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. As of March 20, 2014, our general partner and its affiliates owned approximately 15.6% of our common units. At the end of the subordination period (which could occur as early as December 31, 2016), assuming no additional issuances of common units (other than upon the conversion of the subordinated units), our general partner and its affiliates will own approximately 57.8% of our common units. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some jurisdictions. You could be liable for our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that: • We were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • Your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitutes “control” of our business. A restatement of net income or a reversal or change of estimates affecting net income made after the end of the subordination period but affecting net income during the subordination period will not retroactively affect the conversion of the subordinated units even if we would not have had sufficient distributable cash flow based on such restated or adjusted net income to permit conversion. Our subordinated units will convert into common units upon the satisfaction of certain tests involving the calculation of distributable cash flow on a historical basis. Distributable cash flow is calculated based on net income, which is a GAAP measure. If net income for a period during the subordination period is restated after the end of the subordination period or if estimates affecting net income made during the subordination period are reversed or changed after the end of the subordination period, it will not retroactively affect the conversion of subordinated units even if we would not have had sufficient distributable cash flow during the subordination period based on such restated or adjusted net income to permit conversion. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, or the Delaware Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the transferee at the time of the transfer and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the 26 Table of Contents partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Sprague Holdings, or any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to our unitholders. The holder or holders of a majority of the incentive distribution rights (currently Sprague Holdings) have the right, in their discretion and without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or the holders of our common units, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and the holders received distributions on their incentive distribution rights at the highest level to which they are entitled (50.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. Sprague Holdings has the right to transfer the incentive distribution rights at any time, in whole or in part, and any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights shall have the same rights as Sprague Holdings relative to resetting target distributions. In the event of a reset of target distribution levels, the holders of the incentive distribution rights will be entitled to receive a number of common units equal to the number of common units that would have entitled the holders to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that Sprague Holdings would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that Sprague Holdings or a transferee could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. As a limited partnership, we are not required to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner’s board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee, as is required for other NYSE-listed entities. Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to certain entities, including most corporations, that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or if we become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A publicly traded partnership such as us may 27 Table of Contents be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless it satisfies a “qualifying income” requirement. Based on our current operations we believe that we satisfy the qualifying income requirement and will be treated as a partnership. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay additional state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to the limited partners. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distributions would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our distributable cash flow. We are currently subject to entity level taxes and fees in a number of states, and such taxes and fees will reduce the distributable cash flow. Changes in current state laws may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of such additional taxes on us by other states in which we do business will further reduce the distributable cash flow available for distribution to unitholders. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. One such legislative proposal would eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Our unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. 28 Table of Contents Sprague Holdings currently directly and indirectly owns more than 50% of the total interests in our capital and profits interests. Therefore, a transfer by Sprague Holdings of all or a portion of its interests in us, along with transfers by other unitholders, could result in a termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and our unitholders’ tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units our unitholders sell will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if our unitholders sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts, or IRAs, and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be subject to withholding taxes imposed at the highest tax rate applicable to such non-U.S. persons, and each non-U.S. person will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on its share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely affected and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our distributable cash flow. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely affect the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. Our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our distributable cash flow. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units actually purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Due to a number of factors including our inability to match transferors and transferees of common units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury 29 Table of Contents Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. Nonetheless, we allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions based upon the date the underlying property is placed in service. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and, although the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention, such regulations are not final and do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g. a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered to have disposed of those common units. If so, such unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and could be required to recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered to have disposed of the loaned units. In that case, such unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may be required to recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan should modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units. Unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local and non-U.S. taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We conduct business and own property in numerous states, most of which impose a personal income tax as well as an income tax on corporations and other entities. We may own property or conduct business in other states or non-U.S. countries in the future. In some jurisdictions, tax losses may not produce a tax benefit in the year incurred and may not be available to offset income in subsequent taxable years. It is the unitholder’s responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 30 Table of Contents 