Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. You should read these Risk Factors in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Item 8. Risks Related to Our Business You should not rely on historical results in our comparable restaurant sales or our average unit volumes as an indication of our future results of operations because they may fluctuate significantly. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable restaurant sales and average unit volumes, including, among other factors: •our ability to execute our business strategy effectively; •unusually strong initial sales performance by new restaurants; •competition; •consumer trends and confidence; •introduction of new menu items; and •regional and national macroeconomic conditions. Our comparable restaurant sales and average unit volumes may not increase at rates achieved over the past several fiscal years or may decrease below levels achieved in recent years. In addition, our comparable restaurant sales and average unit volumes will likely continue to be negatively impacted by the addition of Macaroni Grill restaurants, and we may not be able to successfully transform and integrate the new brand. Changes in our comparable restaurant sales and average unit volumes could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect our ability to increase the sales and profits of existing restaurants or to open new restaurants. Although the global economy has shown signs of recovery over the last three years, the United States may continue to suffer from depressed economic activity. Recessionary economic cycles, higher fuel and other energy costs, lower housing values, low consumer confidence, inflation, increases in commodity prices, higher interest rates, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws or other economic factors that may affect discretionary consumer spending could adversely affect our revenues and profit margins and make opening new restaurants more difficult. Our guests may have lower disposable income and reduce the frequency with which they dine out. This could result in reduced guest traffic, reduced average checks or limitations on the prices we can charge for our menu items, any of which could reduce our sales and profit margins. In addition, many of our Joe's Crab Shack restaurants are located in areas that we consider tourist or vacation destinations. Therefore, in those locations, we depend in large part on vacation travelers to frequent our Joe's Crab Shack restaurants, and such destinations typically experience a reduction in visitors during economic downturns, thereby reducing the potential guests that could visit our restaurants. Also, businesses in the shopping vicinity in which some of our restaurants are located may experience difficulty as a result of macroeconomic trends or cease to operate, which could, in turn, further negatively affect guest traffic at our restaurants. All of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and growth strategy. 19 Table of Contents Macaroni Grill has experienced significant declines in total revenues in the last several years, and we may not be able to reverse these trends or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition for the Company. On April 9, 2013, we completed the acquisition of Macaroni Grill. Macaroni Grill's revenues have steadily declined in the last several years, including a decline of approximately 25% over its last three fiscal years, from $524.4 million in fiscal year 2010, to $437.7 million in fiscal year 2011 and to $395.4 million in fiscal year 2012. Since our acquisition, the comparable restaurant sales of Macaroni Grill have continued to decline, with a 6.5% decrease in comparable restaurant sales when comparing post-acquisition period ended December 30, 2013 to the comparable period in 2012. While we have implemented and may continue to implement a number of measures to transform the Macaroni Grill brand, there can be no assurance that these measures will be successful. One of these measures, for example, was the introduction of a revamped menu in our Macaroni Grill restaurants in August 2013, as well as many of its original brand elements. These measures or any other changes we implement may not increase guest traffic at or improve the performance of our Macaroni Grill restaurants. Accordingly, it is possible that the trend of declining revenues experienced in prior years will continue. In addition, this attempted transformation has resulted in and may continue to result in expenses and losses and may continue to divert significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of existing brands. Furthermore, at the time of the acquisition, we made certain assumptions as to how we would increase the revenues generated by Macaroni Grill restaurants and as a result, the cash flows of the Company. Our actual results could differ materially from those derived from such assumptions. If we are unable to improve the performance of our Macaroni Grill restaurants, the financial position and operating results of the Company may be adversely impacted and we will not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Even if our transformation efforts are successful, it may take a significant period of time for these efforts to result in increased revenues or comparable store sales growth for Macaroni Grill or for us to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. If we fail to execute our growth strategy, which partially depends on our ability to open new restaurants that are profitable, our business could suffer. Historically, one of the key means of achieving our growth strategies has been through opening new restaurants and operating those restaurants on a profitable basis. We expect this to continue to be an important element of our growth for the foreseeable future. For fiscal year 2014, we target opening as many as eight new Joe's and/or Brick House restaurants. Because of the continuing economic downturn, there are fewer new developments, such as shopping centers, being constructed, which reduce the supply of new restaurant locations. As a result, competition for prime locations is intense and the prices commanded for such locations have remained high. There is no guarantee that a sufficient number of locations will be available in desirable areas or on terms that are acceptable to us in order to achieve our growth plan. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants, or achieving lower than expected sales in new restaurants, could materially adversely affect our growth strategy. Once we have identified suitable restaurant sites, our ability to open new restaurants successfully and on the development schedule we anticipate will also depend on numerous other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among other items, the following: •our ability to secure suitable new restaurant sites; •our ability to control the timing and costs of construction and development of new restaurants; •our ability to negotiate suitable lease terms; •our ability to secure required governmental approvals and permits in a timely manner and any changes in local, state or federal laws and regulations that adversely affect our costs or ability to open new restaurants; 20 Table of Contents •the cost and availability of capital to fund construction costs and pre-opening expenses; •consumer acceptance of our new restaurants; and •limitations under our current and future credit facilities. Although we target specified new restaurant average unit volumes, cash on cash returns and capital investment for our brands, new restaurants may not meet these targets. Any restaurant we open may not be profitable or achieve operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. We may not be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that our planned expansion will impose on management and on our existing infrastructure, or be able to hire or retain the necessary management and operating personnel. Our existing restaurant management systems, financial and management controls and information systems may not be adequate to support our planned expansion. Our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us to continue to enhance these systems, procedures and controls and to locate, hire, train and retain management and operating personnel. There is also the potential that some of our new restaurants will be located near areas where we have existing restaurants, thereby reducing the revenues of such existing restaurants. Our success depends on our ability to compete with many other restaurants. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with many well-established restaurant companies on the basis of food taste, price of products offered, guest service, atmosphere, location and overall guest experience. Our competitors include restaurant chains and individual restaurants that range from independent local operators to well-capitalized national and regional restaurant companies. Our Joe's Crab Shack restaurants compete against other casual seafood restaurants, including national and regional chains and local seafood restaurants, as well as against casual dining restaurants that provide a different type of food. Our Brick House Tavern + Tap restaurants compete against casual restaurants in the bar and grill segment and restaurants in the casual dining segment. Our Macaroni Grill restaurants compete against local, regional and national Italian restaurants, as well as restaurants in the casual dining segment that serve food other than Italian. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, which may allow them to react to changes in the restaurant industry better than we can. Other competitors are local restaurants that in some cases have a loyal guest base and strong brand recognition within a particular market. As our competitors expand their operations or as new competitors enter the industry, we expect competition to intensify. Should our competitors increase their spending on advertising and promotions, we could experience a loss of guest traffic to our competitors. Also, if our advertising and promotions become less effective than those of our competitors, we could experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We also compete with other restaurant chains and other retail businesses for quality site locations, management and hourly employees. Our failure to establish and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting contributed to the restatement of our previously issued financial statements. If we fail to remediate material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting or otherwise establish and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may have additional material misstatements in our financial statements and we may not be able to report our financial results in a timely manner. In 2012, management concluded that there was a material misstatement that occurred and determined it appropriate to restate its previously issued financial statements as of January 3, 2011 and January 2, 2012 and for the years ended December 28, 2009, January 3, 2011 and January 2, 2012 and as of March 26, 2012 and for the twelve week periods ended March 28, 2011 and March 26, 2012. In connection with the restatement of our previously issued financial statements, our CEO and CFO 21 Table of Contents performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures and concluded that they were not effective as a result of certain material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. A "material weakness" is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal controls such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected in a timely basis. These material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting contributed to the restatement of our previously issued financial statements. We took steps to remediate the identified material weaknesses and as of December 30, 2013, such material weaknesses had been remediated. We will continue to review our internal controls over financial reporting in the areas identified and other areas and update our accounting policies and procedures accordingly. However, there is no guarantee that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future or that any of these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any future failure in our controls could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in a misstatement of our accounts and disclosures that could result in a material misstatement to our annual or interim consolidated financial statements in future periods that would not be prevented or detected. If our financial statements are not timely or accurate, then, in addition to the risks described above, investors may lose confidence in our reported information and our ability to prevent fraud, we could be delisted from NASDAQ and we could lose our ability to access capital markets. Our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the date we are no longer an "emerging growth company" as defined in the JOBS Act, if we continue to take advantage of the exemptions contained in the JOBS Act. We expect that we will remain an "emerging growth company" until the earliest of (i) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our IPO; (ii) the last day of our fiscal year in which we have annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more; (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt; and (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a "large accelerated filer," which will occur at such time as we have (1) an aggregate worldwide market value of common equity securities held by non-affiliates of $700 million or more as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, (2) been required to file annual, quarterly and current reports under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, for a period of at least 12 calendar months, and (3) filed at least one annual report pursuant to the Exchange Act. As a result, we may qualify as an "emerging growth company" until as late as May 10, 2017. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. Legal proceedings or regulatory actions commenced in connection with the restatement could require us to incur significant costs and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On July 18, 2012, we announced our intention to restate our financial statements for the years ended December 28, 2009, January 3, 2011 and January 2, 2012 and the related interim periods. As a result of the restatement, on July 20, 2012, a putative class action complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas against us, certain of our current directors and officers and the underwriters in the IPO. The plaintiffs allege that all the defendants violated Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"), and certain of our directors and officers have control person liability under Section 15 of the Securities Act, based on allegations that in light of the July 18, 2012 restatement announcement, our IPO registration statement and prospectus contained untrue statements of material facts, omitted to state other facts necessary to make the statements made not misleading, and omitted to state material facts required to be stated therein. The plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory damages and attorneys' fees and costs. The discovery process has begun and 22 Table of Contents we are vigorously defending the matter on the merits. However, we are unable to predict the outcome of this case and any future related cases. Changes in food and supply costs, including the cost of crab, could adversely affect our results of operations. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs. Operating margins for our restaurants are subject to changes in the price and availability of food commodities, including crab, shrimp, lobster and other seafood. In fiscal year 2013, Queen Crab, Snow Crab, Dungeness Crab, King Crab, lobster and shrimp accounted for approximately 26% of our total food purchases. Any increase in food prices, particularly for these food items, could adversely affect our operating results. In light of our acquisition of Macaroni Grill, our total food purchases became more heavily weighted towards items such as beef, chicken, flour and other items that have historically comprised a smaller portion of our food costs, and such items subject us to additional volatility in price and availability. In addition, we are susceptible to increases in food costs as a result of factors beyond our control, such as weather conditions (including hurricanes), oil spills, fisherman strikes, food safety concerns, costs of distribution, product recalls and government regulations. Furthermore, the introduction of or changes to tariffs on seafood, such as imported crab and shrimp or other food products, could increase our costs and possibly impact the supply of those products. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu items and prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, because our menu items are moderately priced, we may not seek to or be able to pass along price increases to our guests. If we adjust pricing there is no assurance that we will realize the full benefit of any adjustment due to changes in our guests' menu item selections and guest traffic. Brick House is a newer and still evolving brand and our plans to expand Brick House may not be successful. While Joe's, Brick House and Macaroni Grill are subject to the risks and uncertainties described herein, there is an enhanced level of risk and uncertainty related to the expansion of Brick House, our most recently developed brand. While Brick House has grown to 20 locations since its founding in 2008, it is still evolving and has not yet proven its long-term growth potential. Initially, we opened Brick House restaurants across a broad range of geographies with the intent of optimizing the brand prior to a continued build out. While we continue to incorporate key insights into our new restaurant rollout plans, we believe the brand is now positioned for expansion. However, there can be no assurance that the enhancements we intend to implement as part of the brand optimization process will be successful or that additional new restaurant growth will occur. Brick House will be subject to the risks and uncertainties that accompany any emerging restaurant brand. If Brick House fails to expand and/or continue generating profits, our operating results could suffer. We may incur costs resulting from breaches of security of confidential guest information related to our electronic processing of credit and debit card transactions. The majority of our restaurant sales are by credit or debit cards. Recently, a number of other retailers have experienced security breaches in which credit and debit card information has been stolen. Although we use secure private networks to transmit confidential information, third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of the guest information transmitted in connection with credit and debit card sales, and our security measures and those of technology vendors may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. If a person is able to circumvent these security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. We may in the future become subject to claims for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of credit or debit card information, and we may also be subject to lawsuits or other proceedings relating to these types of incidents. Any such claim or proceeding 23 Table of Contents could cause us to incur significant unplanned expenses, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, adverse publicity resulting from these allegations could significantly harm our reputation and may have a material adverse effect on us and our restaurants. Food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. Food safety is a top priority, and we dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our guests enjoy safe, quality food products. However, food-borne illnesses, such as salmonella, E. coli, hepatitis A, trichinosis or "mad cow disease," and food safety issues have occurred in the food industry in the past, and could occur in the future. In addition, publicity regarding certain illnesses and contaminations related to seafood, including high levels of mercury or other carcinogens, oil contaminations, vibrio vulnificus and the Norwalk virus could affect consumer preferences and the consumption of seafood. Any report or publicity linking us to instances of food-borne illness or other food safety issues, including food tampering or contamination, could adversely affect our brands and reputation as well as our revenues and profits. Even instances of food-borne illness, food tampering or food contamination occurring solely at restaurants of our competitors could result in negative publicity about the food service industry or seafood restaurants generally and adversely impact our sales. In addition, our reliance on third-party food suppliers and distributors increases the risk that food-borne illness incidents could be caused by factors outside of our control and that multiple locations would be affected rather than a single restaurant. Although we inspect food products when they are delivered to us, we cannot assure that all food items are properly maintained during transport throughout the supply chain and that our employees will identify all products that may be spoiled and should not be used in our restaurants. New illnesses resistant to any precautions may develop in the future, or diseases with long incubation periods could arise, such as "mad cow disease," which could give rise to claims or allegations on a retroactive basis. In addition, our industry has long been subject to the threat of food tampering by suppliers, employees or guests, such as the addition of foreign objects in the food that we sell. Reports, whether or not true, of injuries caused by food tampering have in the past severely injured the reputations and brands of restaurant chains in the quick service restaurant segment and could affect us in the future as well. If our guests become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could also be forced to temporarily close some restaurants. Furthermore, any instances of food contamination, whether or not at our restaurants, could subject us or our suppliers to a food recall pursuant to the Food and Drug Administration Food Safety Modernization Act. Changes in consumer preferences could harm our performance. Consumer preferences often change rapidly and without warning, moving from one trend to another among many product or retail concepts. We also depend on trends regarding away-from-home dining. Consumer preferences towards away-from-home dining or certain food products might shift as a result of, among other things, health concerns or dietary trends related to cholesterol, carbohydrate, fat and salt content of certain food items, including crab or other seafood items, in favor of foods that are perceived as more healthy. Our menu is currently comprised of crab and other menu items and a change in consumer preferences away from these offerings would have a material adverse effect on our business. Negative publicity over the health aspects of such food items may adversely affect demand for our menu items and could result in lower guest traffic, sales and results of operations. If we fail to continue to develop and maintain our restaurant brands, our business could suffer. We believe that maintaining and developing our restaurant brands are critical to our success and our growth strategy, and that the importance of brand recognition is significant as a result of competitors offering products similar to our products. We have made significant marketing expenditures to create and maintain brand loyalty as well as to increase awareness of our brands. If our brand- 24 Table of Contents building strategy is unsuccessful, these expenses may never be recovered, and we may be unable to increase our future sales or implement our business strategy. Any incident that erodes consumer affinity for our brands could significantly reduce their respective values and damage our business. If guests perceive or experience a reduction in food quality, service or ambiance, or in any way believe we failed to deliver a consistently positive experience, our brand value could suffer and our business may be adversely affected. The impact of new restaurant openings could result in fluctuations in our financial performance. As discussed above, for fiscal year 2014, we target opening as many as eight new restaurants, including as many as five conversions of existing restaurants. New restaurants typically experience an adjustment period before sales levels and operating margins normalize. When our new restaurants open, they typically encounter startup costs, but also significant guest traffic and, therefore, high sales in their initial months. However, over time, these new restaurants may experience a decrease in guest traffic and sales compared to their opening months. Accordingly, sales achieved by new or converted restaurants may not be indicative of future operating results. Also, due to the foregoing factors, results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other fiscal quarter or for a full fiscal year. We rely heavily on certain vendors, suppliers and distributors, which could adversely affect our business. Our ability to maintain consistent price and quality throughout our restaurants depends in part upon our ability to acquire specified food products and supplies in sufficient quantities, especially with respect to shellfish such as crab. While our seafood offerings are generally caught from government regulated fisheries, crab and other fish are caught in the wild, which could cause volatility in supply. In some cases, we may have only one supplier or a limited number of suppliers for a particular food product. We cannot make assurances regarding the continued supply of our food items since we do not have control over the businesses of our suppliers. Furthermore, such food items are perishable, and we cannot assure that such items will be delivered by such third parties in appropriate condition for sale in our restaurants. In addition, we rely on one primary distributor to deliver products to our restaurants. If any of these vendors, our other suppliers or our distributor is unable to fulfill their obligations, or if we are unable to find replacement providers in the event of a supply or service disruption, we could encounter supply shortages and incur higher costs to secure adequate supplies, which would materially harm our business. In addition, we use various third-party vendors to provide, support and maintain most of our management information systems. We also outsource certain accounting, payroll and human resources functions to business process service providers. Such third-party vendors may not be able to handle the volume of activity or perform the quality of service necessary for our operations. The failure of such vendors to fulfill their support and maintenance obligations or service obligations could disrupt our operations. Furthermore, the outsourcing of certain of our business processes could negatively impact our internal control processes. Information technology system failures or breaches of our network security could interrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. We rely on our computer systems and network infrastructure across our operations, including point-of-sale processing at our restaurants. Our operations depend upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and systems against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems. Any damage or failure of our computer systems or network infrastructure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and subject us to litigation or actions by regulatory authorities. While we 25 Table of Contents utilize our personnel, as well as a variety of hardware and software, to monitor our systems, controls, firewalls and encryption and intend to maintain and upgrade our security technology and operational procedures to prevent damage, breaches or other disruptive problems, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. Approximately 41% of our restaurants are located in Texas, California and Florida and, as a result, we are sensitive to economic and other trends and developments in those states. As of December 30, 2013, 137 of our 335 restaurants were spread across Texas (56), California (42) and Florida (39). As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in those states, including their labor markets. In addition, given our geographic concentration in these states, negative publicity regarding any of our restaurants in such states could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations, as could other occurrences in these regions such as local competitive changes, changes in consumer preferences, local strikes, new or revised laws or regulations, energy shortages or increases in energy prices, droughts, hurricanes, fires, floods or other natural disasters. In addition, many of our restaurants in California and Florida are located in areas that we consider tourist or vacation destinations. Therefore, we depend in large part on vacation travelers to frequent our restaurants in these locations. Any change in consumer preferences away from California and Florida as their choice of destination could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation. Allergy concerns relating to crab and other shellfish items could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. Many of our food items contain crab or other shellfish items. In recent years, there has been negative publicity concerning shellfish and other food allergies. This negative publicity, as well as any other negative publicity concerning food products we serve, may adversely impact demand for our food and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants. Owing to the severe nature of certain shellfish allergies, shellfish have recently been identified by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as a significant allergen. The introduction of seafood and shellfish labeling regulations to the restaurant industry could cause us to modify the operations or atmosphere of our restaurants, which could adversely affect our business and brand differentiation. Health concerns arising from outbreaks of viruses may have a material adverse effect on our business. The United States and other countries have experienced, and may experience in the future, outbreaks of viruses, such as H1N1, avian influenza, SARS and various other forms of influenza. To the extent that a virus is transmitted by human-to-human contact, our employees or guests could become infected, or could choose to, or be advised to avoid gathering in public places and avoid eating in restaurant establishments, which could adversely affect our business. We depend upon our executive officers and may not be able to retain or replace these individuals or recruit additional personnel, which could harm our business. We believe that we have benefited substantially from the leadership and experience of our executive officers, including our Chief Executive Officer, Raymond A. Blanchette, III, and our President and Chief Financial Officer, Michael J. Dixon. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, as we may not be able to find suitable individuals to replace such personnel on a timely basis. In addition, any such departure could be viewed in a negative light by investors and analysts, which could cause our common stock price to decline. As our business expands, our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified executive-level personnel. Our inability to attract and retain qualified executive officers in the future could impair our growth and harm our business. 26 Table of Contents We are dependent on attracting and retaining qualified employees while also controlling labor costs. We are dependent upon the availability of qualified restaurant personnel. Our future performance will depend on our ability to attract, motivate and retain our brand presidents, regional vice presidents, directors of operations and restaurant-level managers. Competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of members of our restaurant management team or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could materially harm our business. In addition, availability of staff varies widely from restaurant to restaurant. In fiscal year 2013, our restaurant manager turnover rate was 34% and our hourly restaurant employee turnover at our comparable restaurants was 100% for Joe's and Brick House. If restaurant management and staff turnover trends increase, we could suffer higher direct costs associated with recruiting, training and retaining replacement personnel. Moreover, we could suffer from significant indirect costs, including restaurant disruptions due to management changeover and potential delays in new restaurant openings or adverse guest reactions to inadequate guest service levels due to staff shortages. Competition for qualified employees may exert upward pressure on wages paid to attract such personnel, resulting in higher labor costs, together with greater recruitment and training expense. We must comply with the Fair Labor Standards Act and various federal and state laws governing employment matters, such as minimum wage, tip credit allowance, overtime pay practices, child labor laws and other working conditions and citizenship requirements. Federal, state and municipal laws may also require us to provide new or increased levels of employee benefits to our employees, many of whom are not currently eligible for such benefits. Many of our employees are hourly workers whose wages are likely to be affected by an increase in the federal or state minimum wage or changes to the tip credit allowance. Proposals have been made, and continue to be made, at federal and state levels to increase minimum wage levels, including changes to the tip credit allowance. An increase in the minimum wage or a change in the tip credit allowance may require an increase or create pressure to increase the pay scale for our employees. In addition, while we take certain measures to operate our restaurants in strict compliance with federal immigration regulations and the requirements of certain states, some of our employees, especially given the location of many of our restaurants, may fail to meet federal work authorization or residency requirements, which could result in disruptions in our work force, sanctions against us and adverse publicity. A shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes could also increase our labor costs. A shortage in the labor pool could also cause our restaurants to be required to operate with reduced staff, which could negatively impact our ability to provide adequate service levels to our guests. Among the federal laws with which we must comply is the National Labor Relations Act that applies to the election by employees to be represented by a labor organization for purposes of collective bargaining over wages, hours, working conditions and terms and conditions of employment. Currently, none of our employees are represented by labor organizations for these purposes. However, potential union representation and collective bargaining agreements may result in increased labor costs that can have an impact on competitiveness. Labor disputes, as well, may precipitate strikes and picketing that may have an impact on business, including guest patronage and supplier deliveries. Our existing senior secured credit facility contains financial covenants, negative covenants and other restrictions and failure to comply with these requirements could cause the related indebtedness to become due and payable and limit our ability to incur additional debt. The lenders' obligation to extend credit under our existing senior secured credit facility depends upon our maintaining certain financial covenants. In particular, our senior secured credit facility requires us to maintain a leverage ratio of rent adjusted debt to EBITDAR (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense and rent expense, plus certain additional addbacks more particularly specified in the credit agreement), and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. These ratios 27 Table of Contents are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period. The facility, as amended on October 25, 2013, allows for (a) a maximum leverage ratio of (i) (6.25x through June 29, 2014, (ii) 6.00x on June 30, 2014 through March 29, 2015, (iii) 5.75x on March 30, 2015 through September 27, 2015, (iv) 5.50x on September 28, 2015 through March 27, 2016, (v) 5.25x on March 28, 2016 through June 26, 2016, (vi) 5.00x on June 27, 2016 through September 25, 2016, and (vii) 4.75x on September 26, 2016 and thereafter, and (b) a minimum fixed charge ratio of (i) 1.25x through September 28, 2014, (ii) 1.30x on September 29, 2014 through March 29, 2015, (iii) 1.35x on March 30, 2015 through September 27, 2015, (iv) 1.40x on September 28, 2015 through March 27, 2016, (v) 1.45x on March 28, 2016 through September 25, 2016, and (vi) 1.50x on September 26, 2016 and thereafter. Failure to maintain these ratios could result in an acceleration of outstanding amounts under the credit facility and restrict us from borrowing amounts under the facility to fund our future liquidity requirements. In addition, our credit facility contains certain negative covenants, which, among other things, limit our ability to: •incur additional indebtedness; •create or permit liens; •make certain investments, guarantees or loans; •make acquisitions; •pay dividends or make other restricted payments; •enter into sale-leaseback transactions; •engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and •merge, consolidate or otherwise dispose of assets other than in the ordinary course of business. Our ability to make scheduled payments and comply with financial covenants will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to other financial, business and other factors beyond our control described herein. Our obligations and the guarantees under the senior secured credit facility are secured by substantially all of our and such subsidiaries' present and future assets and a perfected first priority lien on the capital stock or other equity interests of our direct and indirect subsidiaries. We may need additional capital in the future, and it may not be available on acceptable terms. The development of our business may require significant additional capital in the future to fund our operations and growth, among other activities. We have historically relied upon cash generated by our operations and our senior secured credit facility to fund our expansion. In the future, we intend to rely on funds from operations and, if necessary, our senior secured credit facility. We may also need to access the debt and equity capital markets. There can be no assurance, however, that these sources of financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our ability to obtain additional financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance, investor sentiment and our ability to incur additional debt in compliance with agreements governing our then-outstanding debt. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms or conditions of additional financings unattractive to us. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations or raise additional capital, our growth could be impeded. As of December 30, 2013, we had approximately $132.0 million of total indebtedness outstanding and available borrowing capacity of $9.8 million under our credit agreement. We may not be able to refinance our indebtedness prior to or at its maturity on acceptable terms or at all. 28 Table of Contents Legal complaints or litigation may hurt us. Occasionally, restaurant guests and/or employees file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we are responsible for some illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our restaurants, or that we have problems with food quality or operations. We are also subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims and claims alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. We could also become subject to class action lawsuits related to these matters in the future. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace conditions, employment and similar matters. A number of these industry lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by defendants. The restaurant industry has also been subject to a growing number of claims that the menus and actions of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of certain of their guests. Regardless, however, of whether any claim brought against us in the future is valid or whether we are liable, such a claim would be expensive to defend and may divert time, money and other valuable resources away from our operations and, thereby, hurt our business. We are subject to state and local "dram shop" statutes, which may subject us to uninsured liabilities. These statutes generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. In the past, after allegedly consuming alcoholic beverages at our restaurants, there have been isolated instances where certain individuals have been killed or injured or have killed or injured third parties. Because a plaintiff may seek punitive damages, which may not be fully covered by insurance, this type of action could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. A judgment in such an action significantly in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, adverse publicity resulting from any such allegations may adversely affect us and our restaurants taken as a whole. Failure to obtain and maintain required licenses and permits or to comply with alcoholic beverage or food control regulations could lead to the loss of our liquor and food service licenses and, thereby, harm our business. The restaurant industry is subject to various federal, state and local government regulations, including those relating to the sale of food and alcoholic beverages. Such regulations are subject to change from time to time. The failure to obtain and maintain these licenses, permits and approvals could adversely affect our operating results. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked, suspended or denied renewal for cause at any time if governmental authorities determine that our conduct violates applicable regulations. Difficulties or failure to maintain or obtain the required licenses and approvals could adversely affect our existing restaurants and delay or result in our decision to cancel the opening of new restaurants, which would adversely affect our business. In fiscal year 2013, approximately 13% of Joe's gross revenues, 43% of Brick House gross revenues and 15% of Macaroni Grill gross revenues were attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. Our alcoholic beverage sales may increase in the future. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require each of our restaurants to apply to a state authority and, in certain locations, county or municipal authorities for a license or permit to sell alcoholic beverages on-premises and to provide service for extended hours and on Sundays. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of daily operations of our restaurants, including minimum age of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, trade practices, wholesale purchasing, other relationships with alcohol manufacturers, wholesalers and distributors, inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. In the past, we have been subject to fines for violations of alcoholic beverage control 29 Table of Contents regulations. Any future failure to comply with these regulations and obtain or retain liquor licenses could adversely affect our results of operations and overall financial condition. We are subject to many federal, state and local laws with which compliance is both costly and complex. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the recently enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation and those relating to building and zoning requirements and the preparation and sale of food. The development and operation of restaurants depend to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic and other regulations and requirements. We are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local authorities relating to health, sanitation, safety and fire standards and liquor licenses, federal and state laws governing our relationships with employees (including the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 and applicable requirements concerning the minimum wage, overtime, family leave, tip credits, working conditions, safety standards, immigration status, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates and state and local payroll taxes), federal and state laws which prohibit discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA. In March 2010, the United States federal government enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. The legislation imposes implementation effective dates that extend through 2020, and many of the changes require additional guidance from government agencies or federal regulations. Due to the breadth and complexity of federal health care legislation and the staggered implementation of its provisions and corresponding regulations, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the health care legislation on our business over the coming years. To date, we have not experienced material costs related to such legislation. However, due to the phased-in nature of the implementation and the lack of interpretive guidance, it is difficult to determine at this time what impact the health care reform legislation will have on our financial results. Possible adverse effects could include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise the ways in which we provide healthcare and other benefits to our employees. Providing more extensive health insurance benefits to employees than the health insurance benefits we currently provide and to a potentially larger proportion of our employees, or the payment of penalties if the specified level of coverage is not provided at an affordable cost to employees, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, these laws require employers to comply with a significant number of new reporting and notice requirements from the Departments of Treasury, Labor and Health and Human Services, and we will have to develop systems and processes to track the requisite information and to comply with the reporting and notice requirements. Our suppliers also may be affected by higher minimum wage and benefit standards, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations, or our inability to respond effectively to significant regulatory or public policy issues, could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business and therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. In addition, certain laws, including the ADA, could require us to expend significant funds to make modifications to our restaurants if we failed to comply with applicable standards. Compliance with all of these laws and 30 Table of Contents regulations can be costly and can increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. New information or attitudes regarding diet and health could result in additional menu labeling laws and changes in regulations and consumer eating habits that could adversely affect our results of operations. Regulations and consumer eating habits may continue to change as a result of new information and attitudes regarding diet and health. These changes may include regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our menu items. The federal government as well as a number of states (including California), counties and cities have enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to make certain nutritional information available to guests (including caloric, sugar, sodium and fat content) or have enacted legislation prohibiting the sales of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. The success of our restaurant operations depends, in part, upon our ability to effectively respond to changes in consumer health and disclosure regulations and to adapt our menu offerings to fit the dietary needs and eating habits of our guests without sacrificing flavor. If consumer health regulations or consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue certain menu items. To the extent we are unable to respond with appropriate changes to our menu offerings, it could materially affect guest traffic and our results of operations. Furthermore, a change in our menu could result in a decrease in guest traffic. We may be subject to increased scrutiny as the result of growing public concern over seafood mislabeling. Although we source our seafood from third-party food suppliers and distributors that we believe accurately identify and label the seafood items that they sell and inspect food products when they are delivered to us, we do not conduct DNA sampling on the products we purchase. Therefore, we cannot assure that the seafood items we purchase from third-parties have been accurately labeled, which could cause us to inadvertently mislabel such items in our restaurants. Recent studies have shown a number of instances of fish products being inaccurately labeled as other species in retail outlets, including grocery stores and restaurants. Although none of our restaurant brands was included in these studies, negative publicity regarding seafood mislabeling, even when not related to our restaurants, could affect consumer preferences and the consumption of seafood and consequently impact our sales. In addition, if any incident of seafood mislabeling were to occur at one of our restaurants, it could erode consumer affinity for our brands and significantly reduce their respective values and damage our business. Furthermore, public concern over seafood mislabeling could result in new regulations relating to the sourcing and labeling of seafood products. For instance, a bill was introduced to the U.S. Congress in July 2012 that was intended to address seafood fraud by requiring fish suppliers and restaurants to provide more information to their customers about the seafood they sell. Although such bill was not enacted, future bills may be proposed and enacted and compliance with any such regulations could cause us to incur additional costs. We occupy most of our restaurants under long-term non-cancelable leases which may obligate us to perform even after a restaurant closes, and we may be unable to renew leases at the end of their terms. All of our restaurant locations are leased under individual lease agreements. Leases are noncancelable and in general, have 10 to 15 year terms, with three to five-year extensions. If we were to close or fail to open a restaurant at a location we lease, we would generally remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, which could include, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Our obligation to continue making rental payments and fulfilling other lease obligations in respect of leases for closed or unopened restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Alternatively, at the end of the lease term and any renewal period for a restaurant, we may be unable to renew the lease without substantial additional cost, if at all. If we cannot renew such a lease we may be forced to close or 31 Table of Contents relocate a restaurant, which could subject us to construction and other costs and risks. If we are required to make payments in respect of leases for closed or unopened restaurants or if we are unable to renew our restaurant leases, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The impact of negative economic factors, including the availability of credit, on our landlords, developers and surrounding tenants could negatively affect our financial results. Negative effects on our existing and potential landlords due to the inaccessibility of credit and other unfavorable economic factors may, in turn, adversely affect our business and results of operations. If our landlords are unable to obtain financing or remain in good standing under their existing financing arrangements, they may be unable to provide construction contributions or satisfy other lease obligations owed to us. In addition, if our landlords are unable to obtain sufficient credit to continue to properly manage their retail sites, we may experience a drop in the level of quality of such retail centers. Our development of new restaurants may also be adversely affected by the negative economic factors affecting developers and potential landlords. Developers and/or landlords may try to delay or cancel recent development projects (as well as renovations of existing projects) due to the instability in the credit markets and recent declines in consumer spending, which could reduce the number of appropriate locations available that we would consider for our new restaurants. If any of the foregoing affect any of our landlords, developers and/or surrounding tenants, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. To the extent our restaurants are part of a larger retail project or tourist destination, our guest traffic could be negatively impacted by economic factors affecting our surrounding tenants. We have recorded impairment charges in past periods and may record additional impairment charges in future periods. We periodically evaluate possible impairment of goodwill and our other intangible assets, as well as other fixed assets at the individual restaurant-level, and record an impairment loss whenever we determine that the fair value of these assets is less than their carrying value. We also periodically evaluate the criteria we use as an indication of asset impairment. We recorded impairment charges of $0.7 million in fiscal year 2013 related to Macaroni Grill's trademarks. If we are unable to improve the performance of our Macaroni Grill restaurants or if we experience deteriorating results at other restaurants, we could recognize additional impairment charges. Our current insurance may not provide adequate levels of coverage against claims. We currently maintain insurance customary for businesses of our size and type. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers' compensation, general liability and property insurance programs. Unanticipated changes in the actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our reserves for these losses could result in materially different amounts of expense under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our failure or inability to enforce our trademarks or other proprietary rights could adversely affect our competitive position or the value of our brand. Our registered trademarks and service marks include Joe's Crab Shack and the design, our stylized logos, Brick House Tavern + Tap and the design, and Romano's Macaroni Grill and the design, which are protected under applicable intellectual property laws. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position, and, therefore, we devote resources to the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights. The protective actions that we 32 Table of Contents take, however, may not be enough to prevent unauthorized use or imitation by others, which could harm our image, brand or competitive position. If we commence litigation to enforce our rights, we will incur significant legal fees. We cannot assure you that third parties will not claim infringement by us of their proprietary rights in the future. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming and distracting for executive management, result in costly litigation, cause changes to existing menu items or delays in introducing new menu items, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to seasonality and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including: •the timing of new restaurant openings and related expense; •restaurant operating costs and expenses for our newly-opened restaurants, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation than thereafter; •labor availability and costs for hourly and management personnel; •profitability of our restaurants, especially in new markets; •changes in interest rates; •increases and decreases in average unit volumes and comparable restaurant sales; •impairment of long-lived assets and any loss on restaurant closures; •macroeconomic conditions, both nationally and locally; •negative publicity relating to the consumption of seafood or other products we serve; •changes in consumer preferences and competitive conditions; •expansion to new markets; •increases in infrastructure costs; and •fluctuations in commodity prices. Our business is also subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our revenues are typically highest in the summer months (June, July and August) and lowest in the winter months (November, December and January) with respect to Joe's restaurants and highest in the winter months with respect to Macaroni Grill restaurants. As a result, our quarterly and annual operating results and comparable restaurant sales may fluctuate significantly as a result of seasonality and the factors discussed above. Accordingly, results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other fiscal quarter or for any fiscal year and comparable restaurant sales for any particular future period may decrease. In the future, operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock would likely decrease. Significant adverse weather conditions and other disasters could negatively impact our results of operations. Adverse weather conditions and acts of god, such as regional winter storms, fires, floods, hurricanes, tropical storms and earthquakes, and other disasters, such as oil spills and nuclear meltdowns, could negatively impact our results of operations. In particular, a number of our restaurants 33 Table of Contents are located in states which are particularly susceptible to hurricanes, tropical storms, flooding and earthquakes. Any strategic transactions or initiatives that we consider in the future may have unanticipated consequences that could harm our business and our financial condition. From time to time, we evaluate potential mergers, acquisitions of restaurants joint ventures or other strategic initiatives to acquire or develop additional restaurant brands. To successfully execute any acquisition or development strategy, we will need to identify suitable acquisition or development candidates, negotiate acceptable acquisition or development terms and obtain appropriate financing. Any acquisition or future development that we pursue, whether or not successfully completed, may involve risks, including: •material adverse effects on our operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the acquisition or development as the restaurants are integrated into our operations; •risks associated with entering into new domestic markets or conducting operations where we have no or limited prior experience, including international markets; •risks inherent in accurately assessing the value, future growth potential, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates and newly developed restaurant brands, and our ability to achieve projected economic and operating synergies; •negative impacts on the reputation of our current brands; and •the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. We are a party to franchise relationships and are pursuing additional franchise relationships, and any current or future franchisees could take actions that could be harmful to our business. With the acquisition of Macaroni Grill, we acquired the payment of royalties by franchisees. In addition, during 2013, we launched efforts to begin to franchise our Brick House brand. Our ability to pursue future franchise relationships depends in part upon our ability to find and attract quality franchisees. Any franchisees will be contractually obligated to operate their restaurants in accordance with our standards and all applicable laws. However, although we will attempt to properly train and support any franchisees, franchisees are independent third parties that we will not control, and the franchisees own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their restaurants. As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any franchised restaurant rests with the franchisee. Adverse events beyond our control, such as quality issues related to a food product or a failure to maintain quality standards at a franchised restaurant, could negatively impact our brand, business and results of operations. In addition, the failure of any future franchisees or any of their restaurants to remain financially viable could result in their failure to pay royalties owed to us. Furthermore, the Macaroni Grill acquisition added an international component to our business through franchising, and we intend to pursue additional international franchise relationships for all of our brands. The addition of operations in foreign jurisdictions through franchising involves additional risks to us, including complying with foreign regulatory requirements and general economic and political conditions in such foreign markets, and we may be unsuccessful in complying with such requirements. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company. Prior to our IPO, we had not been subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act or the other rules and regulations of the Securities Exchange Commission, or the SEC, or any securities exchange relating to public companies. Ongoing compliance with the various reporting and other 34 Table of Contents requirements applicable to public companies require considerable time and attention of management, particularly if we are no longer an "emerging growth company." Congress enacted the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the "JOBS Act," on April 5, 2012. Pursuant to the provisions of the JOBS Act, we qualify as an "emerging growth company." Section 102 of the JOBS Act provides that an "emerging growth company" can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. However, we chose to "opt out" of such extended transition period, and as a result, we comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Our decision to opt out of the extended transition period was irrevocable. For as long as we remain an "emerging growth company" as defined in the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not "emerging growth companies" including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an "emerging growth company." Some investors may find our common stock less attractive if we continue to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We anticipate that we will remain an "emerging growth company" until the earlier of the end of the fiscal year during which we have total annual gross revenues of $1.0 billion or more and May 10, 2017. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Concentration of ownership by J.H. Whitney VI may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. J.H. Whitney VI owns, in the aggregate, approximately 68% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, J.H. Whitney VI is able to exercise control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions and will continue to have significant control over our management and policies. In addition, two of the six members of our board of directors are principals of J.H. Whitney. J.H. Whitney VI can take actions that have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. These actions may be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. The concentration of voting power with J.H. Whitney VI may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. The interests of J.H. Whitney VI may not be consistent with your interests as a stockholder. J.H. Whitney VI is also able to transfer control of us to a third-party by transferring their common stock, which would not require the approval of our board of directors or our other stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the doctrine of corporate opportunity does not apply against J.H. Whitney, or any of our directors who are employees of or affiliated with J.H. Whitney, in a manner that would prohibit them from investing or participating in competing businesses. To the extent J.H. Whitney affiliated funds invest in such other businesses, they may have differing interests than our other stockholders. For example, J.H. Whitney affiliated funds may choose to own other restaurant brands through other investments, which may compete with our brands. 35 Table of Contents We are a "controlled company" within the meaning of The NASDAQ Stock Market rules, and, as a result, we rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of other companies. J.H. Whitney VI owns more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock and therefore, we qualify as a "controlled company" under The NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance listing standards. As a controlled company, we are exempt under The NASDAQ Stock Market listing standards from the obligation to comply with certain of The NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance requirements, including the requirements: •that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors, as defined under the rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market; •that we have a corporate governance and nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and •that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities. Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased them. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including those described under "—Risks Related to Our Business" and the following: •potential fluctuation in our annual or quarterly operating results due to seasonality and other factors; •changes in capital market conditions that could affect valuations of restaurant companies in general or our goodwill in particular or other adverse economic conditions; •changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our common stock, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our common stock; •downgrades by any securities analysts who follow our common stock; •future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and significant stockholders; •global economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; •investors' perceptions of our prospects; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint ventures or capital commitments; and •investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives. In addition, the stock markets, and in particular The NASDAQ Global Select Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many food service companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business. 36 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress our stock price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional shares. J.H. Whitney VI has the right, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements registering additional shares of common stock, and J.H. Whitney VI and members of management have the right to require us to include shares of common stock in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or J.H. Whitney VI. Subject to compliance with restrictions under the registration rights agreement (which may be waived), shares of common stock sold under these registration statements can be freely sold in the public market. In the event such registration rights are exercised and a large number of shares of common stock are sold in the public market, such sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. In addition, we would incur certain expenses in connection with the registration and sale of such shares. In the future, we may also issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding shares of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that stockholders might consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: •establish a classified board of directors for a period of time after the consummation of the public offering, so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time; •authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; •prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders, once J.H. Whitney VI owns less than 50% of our outstanding voting stock; •provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our amended and restated bylaws; and •establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our common stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our 37 Table of Contents business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. The continued operation and expansion of our business will require substantial funding. Accordingly, we do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends on shares of our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, including our senior secured credit facility and other indebtedness we may incur, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 38 Table of Contents 