Item 1A. Risk Factors We make and hold in our portfolio construction loans, including speculative construction loans, which are considered to have greater credit risk than other types of residential loans. We originate construction loans for residential properties and commercial real estate properties, including properties built on speculative, undeveloped property by builders and developers who have not identified a buyer for the completed residential or commercial real estate property at the time of loan origination. At December 31, 2011, $39.3 million, or 17.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of construction loans. At this date, our construction loan portfolio consisted of $29.4 million, or 13.1% of our loan portfolio, in loans that were secured by residential real estate speculative loan projects, $4.4 million, or 2.0% of our loan portfolio, in loans that were secured by owner-occupied residential real estate, and $5.4 million, or 2.4% of our loan portfolio, in loans that were secured by commercial real estate speculative loan projects. Construction lending is an important part of our business strategy and we expect this portion of our loan portfolio to continue to grow. Construction lending involves additional risks when compared with permanent residential lending because funds are advanced upon the progress of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. This type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential mortgage loan. These loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of a completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss. While we believe we have established adequate allowances in our financial statements to cover the credit risk of our construction loan portfolio, there can be no assurance that losses will not exceed our allowances, which could adversely impact our future earnings. 19 Our ability to continue to originate a significant amount of construction loans is dependent on the continued strength of the housing market in our market area. Further, if we lost our relationship with several of our larger borrowers building in this area or there is a decline in the demand for new housing in this area, it is expected that the demand for construction loans would decline and our net income would be adversely affected. Our commercial lending exposes us to greater lending risks. At December 31, 2011, $85.1 million, or 37.7%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate and commercial business loans. Commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the business and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential mortgage loan. Further, unlike residential mortgage loans or commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans may be secured by collateral other than real estate, the value of which may be more difficult to appraise, and may be more susceptible to fluctuation in value. Our level of nonperforming loans and classified assets expose us to increased risk of loss. Further, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2011, loans that were internally classified as either special mention, substandard, doubtful or loss totaled $9.0 million, representing 4.0% of total loans, including nonperforming loans of $7.0 million, representing 3.1% of total loans. If these loans do not perform according to their terms and the value of the collateral is insufficient to pay the remaining loan balance or if the economy and/or the real estate market continues to weaken, we could experience loan losses or be required to record further provisions to our allowance for loan losses, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level representing management’s best estimate of inherent losses in the portfolio based upon management’s evaluation of the portfolio’s collectability as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. At December 31, 2011, our allowance for loan losses totaled $3.4 million, which represented 1.5% of total loans and 48.6% of nonperforming loans. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase the allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to income, or to charge off loans, which, net of any recoveries, would decrease the allowance for loan losses. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A return of recessionary conditions in our national economy and, in particular, local economy could continue to increase our level of nonperforming loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and, in particular, our local market area as a result of our geographic concentration of lending activities. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the economy in the United States generally, and in our market area in particular. Following a national home price peak in mid-2006, falling home prices and sharply reduced sales volumes, along with the collapse of the United States’ subprime mortgage industry in early 2007, significantly contributed to a recession that officially lasted until June 2009, although the effects continued thereafter. Dramatic declines in real estate values and high levels of foreclosures resulted in significant asset write-downs by financial institutions, which have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. While our primary market area was not affected by the recessionary conditions as severely as the United States generally, our primary market area was negatively impacted by the downturn in the economy and experienced increased unemployment levels and a softening of the local real estate market, including reductions in local property values. 20 Concerns over the United States’ credit rating (which was downgraded by Standard & Poor’s), the European sovereign debt crisis, and continued high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and diminished expectations for the economy. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. In particular, unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, our profitability depends on the general economic conditions in our primary market area. Most of our loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in the town of Wellesley and the surrounding communities. As a result of this concentration, a prolonged or more severe downturn in the local economy could result in significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would negatively impact our interest income and result in higher provisions for loan losses, which would reduce our earnings. The economic downturn could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services, which would negatively impact our revenues. Our residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit exposes us to greater lending risks. At December 31, 2011, $80.2 million, or 35.6%, of our loan portfolio consisted of residential mortgage loans and $20.5 million, or 9.1%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity lines of credit. We intend to continue to emphasize and grow these types of lending, in particular residential mortgage lending. Recent declines in the housing market have resulted in declines in real estate values in our market area. Declines in real estate values could cause some of our residential mortgage and home equity lines of credit to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. Changes in interest rates may hurt our profits and asset value. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted-average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted-average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) the ability to originate loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) the ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that the estimated maturities of our interest-earning assets currently are well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities of our interest-bearing liabilities, our profitability could be adversely affected as a result of changes in interest rates. Strong competition within our market area could reduce our profits and slow growth. As the economy recovers, we will face more intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition may make it more difficult for us to make new loans and may force us to offer lower loan rates and higher deposit rates. Pricing competition for loans and deposits might result in our earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. At June 30, 2011, which is the most recent date for which data is available from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we held 1.26% of the deposits in Norfolk County, which was the 19th largest market share out of 45 financial institutions with offices in Norfolk County. At June 30, 2011, we also held 12.42% of the deposits in the town of Wellesley, which was the third largest market share out of 12 financial institutions with offices in Wellesley. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. 21 Our business strategy includes moderate growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We have experienced moderate growth during the past five years and our recently completed offering will further add to this growth. In the future, we expect to experience further growth in our assets, our deposits and the scale of our operations, whether through organic growth or acquisitions. We anticipate opening our third full service branch in Wellesley in the first quarter of 2012. However, achieving our growth targets requires us to successfully execute our business strategies. Our business strategies include continuing to expand our loan portfolio with more residential mortgage lending and larger commercial lending relationships and increased emphasis on competitive deposit products, in particular business deposit and checking products, to become a full-service community banking institution. Our ability to successfully grow will also depend on the continued availability of loan opportunities that meet our more stringent underwriting standards. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan, and our business and prospects could be adversely affected. The loss of our President and Chief Executive Officer could hurt our operations. We rely heavily on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Thomas J. Fontaine. The loss of Mr. Fontaine could have an adverse effect on us because, as a small community bank, Mr. Fontaine has more responsibility than would be typical at a larger financial institution with more employees. In addition, as a small community bank, we have fewer management-level personnel who are in position to succeed and assume the responsibilities of Mr. Fontaine. We entered into a three-year employment contract with Mr. Fontaine. In addition, we have bank-owned life insurance on Mr. Fontaine. We own stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston, which recently had to suspend its dividend as a result of its financial difficulties. As a member bank, Wellesley Bank is required to purchase capital stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank in an amount commensurate with the amount of Wellesley Bank’s advances and unused borrowing capacity. This stock is carried at cost and was $1.9 million at December 31, 2011. In response to unprecedented market conditions and potential future losses, the Federal Home Loan Bank announced in February 2009 an initiative to preserve capital by the adoption of a revised retained earnings target, declaration of a moratorium on excess stock repurchases and the suspension of cash dividend payments. The payment of cash dividends was resumed in 2011, although at a rate substantially less than prior to the suspension of dividends in 2009. If the Federal Home Loan Bank is unable to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements or is required to aid the remaining Federal Home Loan Banks, our holding of Federal Home Loan Bank stock may be determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired and may require a charge to earnings. Financial reform legislation recently enacted by Congress will, among other things, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) has and will continue to change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as stringent as those required for insured depository institutions, and the components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. The legislation also establishes a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today, and directs the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months of the date of enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as Wellesley Bank, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10.0 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10.0 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. 22 In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act increased stockholder influence over boards of directors by requiring certain public companies to give stockholders a nonbinding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate and solicit votes for their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years. While it is difficult to anticipate the overall impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on us and the financial services industry, it is expected that at a minimum it will increase our operating costs. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Wellesley Bank is subject to extensive government regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks. Wellesley Bancorp is also subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation, supervision and examination govern the activities in which we may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance fund and our depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Increased and/or special Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. In addition, in May 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $118,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation required all institutions to prepay their assessments for all of calendar years 2010, 2011 and 2012, which for us totaled $1.1 million. Additional increases in the assessment base, or the base assessment rate, or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. You will not receive dividends on our common stock during the first year following the closing of the conversion. We are not permitted to declare dividends on our common stock during the first year following the conversion. In connection with its nonobjection to the conversion, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has required Wellesley Bancorp to commit that for the 12 month period immediately following the closing of the conversion it will not declare any distributions of capital to shareholders, including cash dividends or a return of capital, except in accordance with applicable regulations of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and as provided for in the business plan submitted with the conversion application. Our business plan does not contemplate the declaration or payment of dividends during 2012. Following the offering, our board of directors will consider adopting a policy of paying cash dividends. We cannot guarantee that we will pay dividends or that, if paid, we will not reduce or eliminate dividends in the future. Additional expenses following the offering from operating as a public company will adversely affect our profitability. Following the offering, our noninterest expenses will increase as a result of the additional financial accounting, legal and various other additional expenses usually associated with operating as a public company and complying with public company disclosure obligations. Due to these public company obligations, we hired a new Chief Financial Officer in August 2011 and in the future may be required to expand our accounting staff further and to expand our internal audit and risk management functions, all of which will increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our profitability. 23 Additional expenses following the offering from the implementation of new equity benefit plans will adversely affect our profitability. We will recognize additional annual employee compensation and benefit expenses stemming from our employee stock ownership plan and equity incentive plan if approved by stockholders. These additional expenses will adversely affect our profitability. We cannot determine the actual amount of these new stock-related compensation and benefit expenses at this time because applicable accounting practices generally require that they be based on the fair value of the options or shares of common stock at the date of grant, with respect to the equity incentive plan, and the average market value of the shares during the year in which shares are committed to be released and allocated, with respect to the employee stock ownership plan; however, we expect them to be material. We will recognize expenses for our employee stock ownership plan when shares are committed to be released and allocated to participants’ accounts as the trustee repays the loan used to acquire the shares over the expected 15 year loan term. We will recognize expenses for restricted stock awards and stock options generally over the vesting period of awards made to recipients. A significant percentage of our common stock is held by our directors, executive officers and employee benefit plans which, if voted together, could prevent actions requiring a supermajority vote, such as the amendment of certain provisions of the articles of incorporation and bylaws. Our directors and executive officers, together with their associates, own 8.9% of Wellesley Bancorp’s outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, our employee stock ownership plan owns 8.0% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, approximately 16.9% of our outstanding shares are held by our directors and executive officers and our employee stock ownership plan. Additional shares will be held by management following the implementation of an equity incentive plan, which we intend to implement no earlier than six months following the completion of the offering. The articles of incorporation and bylaws of Wellesley Bancorp contain supermajority voting provisions that require that the holders of at least 75% of Wellesley Bancorp’s outstanding shares of voting stock approve certain actions including, but not limited to, the amendment of certain provisions of Wellesley Bancorp’s articles of incorporation and bylaws. If our directors and executive officers and benefit plans hold more than 25% of our outstanding common stock, the shares held by these individuals and benefit plans could be voted in a manner that would ensure that the 75% supermajority needed to approve such actions could not be attained. Issuance of shares for benefit programs will dilute your ownership interest. We intend to adopt an equity incentive plan no earlier than six months following the offering. If stockholders approve the new equity incentive plan, we intend to issue shares to our officers, employees and directors through this plan. If the restricted stock awards under the equity incentive plan are funded from authorized but unissued stock, your ownership interest in the shares will be diluted by up to approximately 3.8%, assuming awards of common stock equal to 4% of the sum of the shares sold in the offering and contributed to the Wellesley Bank Charitable Foundation are awarded under the plan. If the shares issued upon the exercise of stock options under the equity incentive plan are issued from authorized but unissued stock, your ownership interest in the shares will be diluted by up to approximately 9.1%, assuming stock option grants equal to 10% of the sum of the shares sold in the offering and contributed to the Wellesley Bank Charitable Foundation are granted under the plan. The articles of incorporation and bylaws of Wellesley Bancorp and certain regulations may prevent or make more difficult certain transactions, including a sale or merger of Wellesley Bancorp. Provisions of the articles of incorporation and bylaws of Wellesley Bancorp, state corporate law and federal and state banking regulations may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Wellesley Bancorp. Consequently, our stockholders may not have the opportunity to participate in such a transaction and the trading price of our common stock may not rise to the level of other institutions that are more vulnerable to hostile takeovers. The factors that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include: 24 ● Articles of incorporation and bylaws. Provisions of the articles of incorporation and bylaws of Wellesley Bancorp that may make it more difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt that the board of directors opposes include: ● supermajority voting requirements for changes to certain provisions of the articles of incorporation and bylaws, which makes it more difficult for shareholders to change provisions of our governing documents; ● a limitation on the right to vote shares, which prohibits any person who owns in excess of 10% of the outstanding shares of Wellesley Bancorp common stock from any vote with respect to the shares held in excess of the limit; ● the election of directors to staggered terms of three years, which makes it more difficult and time consuming for a shareholder group to fully use its voting power to gain control of the board of directors at a single annual meeting of shareholders without the consent of the incumbent board of directors of Wellesley Bancorp; ● the removal of directors only for cause, which makes it more difficult for shareholders to remove directors and replace them with their own nominees; ● the absence of cumulative voting by stockholders in the election of directors, which may prevent a shareholder from electing nominees opposed by the board of directors of Wellesley Bancorp; ● provisions restricting the calling of special meetings of stockholders, which delays consideration of a shareholder proposal until the next annual meeting; and ● provisions regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations, which gives our board of directors time to consider the qualifications of proposed nominees, the merits of the proposals and, to the extent deemed necessary or desirable by our board of directors, to inform shareholders and make recommendations about those matters. ● Massachusetts and federal banking regulations and Maryland corporate law. Massachusetts banking regulations prohibit, for three years following the completion of a mutual-to-stock conversion, the offer to acquire or the acquisition of more than 10% of any class of equity security of a converted institution without the prior approval of the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks. Additional state corporate law and federal banking regulations place limitations on the acquisition of certain percentages of our common stock and impose restrictions on these significant stockholders. Our contribution to the Wellesley Bank Charitable Foundation may not be tax deductible, which could decrease our profits. We believe that our contribution to the Wellesley Bank Charitable Foundation, valued at $1.8 million, pre-tax, will be deductible for federal income tax purposes. However, we may not have sufficient profits to be able to use the deduction fully. If it is more likely than not that we will be unable to use the entire deduction, we will be required to establish a valuation allowance related to that portion of the deferred tax asset that is not deemed to be realizable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 25 