D. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Form 20-F before deciding to invest in our ordinary shares. The risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Form 20-F, including Item 5“Operating and financial Review and Prospects,” could materially adversely affect our business. Any of the following risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose some or all of your investment. 7 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Failure to effectively and efficiently attract, sell to and retain small and medium-sized businesses (“SMB”) customers would adversely affect our operating results. We primarily market and sell our solutions to SMBs. SMB customers are challenging to reach, acquire and retain in a cost-effective manner. To grow our revenue, we must add new customers, sell additional functionality to existing customers and encourage existing customers to renew their subscriptions. Selling to and retaining SMB customers is more difficult than selling to and retaining enterprise customers because SMB customers generally: • have high failure rates; • are price sensitive; • are difficult to reach with targeted sales campaigns; • have high churn rates in part because of the scale of their businesses and the ease of switching services; and • generate less revenue per customer and per transaction. If we are unable to market and sell our solutions to SMBs with competitive pricing and in a cost-effective manner, our ability to grow our revenue and maintain and grow our profitability will be harmed. We may not be able to retain and increase sales to our existing customers, which could negatively impact our financial results. We generally license our solutions pursuant to customer agreements with an initial term of 36 months. Most agreements provide for renewal automatically for one-year intervals unless the customer elects otherwise, although our customers have no obligation to renew these agreements after their term expires. We also actively seek to sell additional solutions to our existing customers. If our efforts to satisfy our existing customers are not successful, we may not be able to retain them or sell additional functionality to them and, as a result, our revenue and ability to grow would be adversely affected. We track our historical data with respect to customer renewal rates, particularly by measuring the number of new subscriptions added, less the number of subscriptions terminated, divided by the total average customers during a period, which we refer to as churn. However, we may not be able to accurately predict future trends in customer renewals and the resulting churn. Customers may choose not to renew their subscriptions for many reasons, including the belief that our service is not required for their business needs or is otherwise not cost-effective, a desire to reduce discretionary spending, or a belief that our competitors’ services provide better value. Additionally, our customers may not renew for reasons entirely out of our control, such as the dissolution of their business, which is particularly common for SMB customers. A significant increase in our churn would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. A part of our growth strategy is to sell additional new features to our existing customers. Our ability to sell new features to customers will depend in significant part on our ability to anticipate industry evolution, practices and standards and to continue to enhance existing solutions, such as integration with fuel cards and GPS navigation devices, or introduce or acquire new solutions on a timely basis to keep pace with technological developments both within our industry and in related industries. However, we may prove unsuccessful either in developing new features or in expanding the third-party software and products with which our solutions integrate. In addition, the success of any enhancement or new feature depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the enhancement or feature. Any new solutions we develop or acquire might not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and might not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If any of our competitors implements new technologies before we are able to implement them or better anticipates the innovation and integration opportunities in related industries, those competitors may be able to provide more effective or cheaper solutions than ours. 8 Table of Contents Another part of our growth strategy is to sell additional subscriptions to existing customers as their fleet sizes increase. We cannot be assured that our customers’ fleet sizes will continue to increase. A significant decrease in our ability to sell existing customers additional functionality or subscriptions would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Adverse economic conditions or reduced spending on information technology solutions, particularly by small and medium-sized local service and distribution businesses, may adversely impact our revenue and profitability. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, particularly in Europe, but the longer the duration, the greater risks we face in operating our business. Furthermore, our solutions are designed predominately for small and medium-sized local service and distribution businesses, which frequently have limited budgets and may be more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior than larger enterprises. SMB customers may choose to spend the limited funds that they have on items other than our solutions and may experience higher failure and bankruptcy rates, which would negatively affect the overall demand for our products, increase customer attrition and could cause our revenue to decline. We cannot assure you that current economic conditions, worsening economic conditions or prolonged poor economic conditions will not have a significant adverse impact on the demand for our solutions, and consequently on our results of operations and prospects. Failure of local service and distribution businesses to adopt fleet management solutions could negatively impact our revenue. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, substantially all of our revenue from the sale of subscriptions to our fleet management solutions. As a result, widespread acceptance and use of fleet management solutions is critical to our future revenue growth and success. If the market for fleet management solutions fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, demand for our solutions could be negatively affected. Changes in customer preferences for fleet management solutions may have a disproportionately greater impact on us than if we offered multiple products and services. The market for fleet management solutions is subject to changing customer demand and trends in preferences. Some of the potential factors that could affect interest in and demand for our fleet management solutions include: • awareness of our brand and fleet management solutions generally; • the reliability of our solutions; • actual and perceived fuel and vehicle maintenance costs, including decreases in fuel prices; • assumptions regarding general mobile workforce inefficiency; • the price, performance, features, and availability of products and services that compete with ours; • our ability to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction; and • the rate of growth in online solutions generally. Our dependence on various lead generation programs could adversely affect our operating results if we need to pay more for such programs or we are unable to attract new customers at the same rate. We use a number of lead generation programs to promote our solutions. Significant increases in the pricing of one or more of our lead generation channels would increase our overall lead generation costs or cause us to choose less expensive and perhaps less effective channels. For example, a portion of our potential 9 Table of Contents customers locate our website through search engines, such as Google, Bing, and Yahoo!, representing one of the most efficient means for generating cost-effective SMB customer leads. If search engine companies modify their search algorithms in a manner that reduces the prominence of our listing, or if our competitors’ search engine optimization efforts are more successful than ours, fewer potential customers may click through to our website. In addition, the cost of purchased listings has increased in the past and may continue to increase in the future. As we add to or change the mix of our lead generation strategies, we may need to expand into channels with significantly higher costs than our current programs, which could adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to maintain effective advertising programs, our ability to attract new customers could be adversely affected, our advertising and marketing expenses could increase substantially, and our operating results may suffer. If we are unable to successfully convert customer sales leads into customers on a cost-effective basis, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. We generate substantially all of our revenue from the sale of subscriptions to our solutions. In order to grow, we must continue to efficiently convert customer leads, many of whom have not previously used fleet management solutions, into customers. Our Web-based sales team is the primary driver of cost-effective conversion of customer leads into customers, particularly in the case of SMB customers who are more difficult to reach with targeted sales campaigns and who tend to generate less revenue per transaction. Our Web-based sales team is able to sell our solutions to the geographically-disparate SMB market much more efficiently than a traditional field-based direct sales force. To execute our growth plan, we must continue to attract and retain highly qualified Web-based sales personnel. We may experience difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled Web-based sales and marketing employees. An inability to convert customer sales leads into customers on a cost-effective basis could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future, which could cause declines or volatility in the price of our ordinary shares. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly operating results or guidance fall below the expectations of research analysts or investors, the price of our ordinary shares could decline substantially. The following factors, among others, could cause fluctuations in our quarterly operating results: • our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers; • our ability to accurately forecast revenue and appropriately plan our expenses; • our ability to introduce new features, including integration of our existing solutions with third-party software and devices; • the actions of our competitors, including consolidation within the industry, pricing changes or the introduction of new services; • our ability to effectively manage our growth; • our ability to successfully manage any future acquisitions of businesses, solutions, or technologies; • the timing and cost of developing or acquiring technologies, services, or businesses; • the timing, operating costs, and capital expenditures related to the operation, maintenance, and expansion of our business; • service outages or security breaches and any related occurrences which could impact our reputation; • the impact of worldwide economic, industry, and market conditions, including disruptions in financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in some countries, and those conditions specific to Internet usage and online businesses; 10 Table of Contents • trade protection measures (such as tariffs and duties) and import or export licensing requirements; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims; and • changes in government regulation affecting our business. We believe that our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, some of which have led to a restatement of certain statements of cash flows, and we may identify additional material weaknesses in the future that may cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements of our financial statements. If we fail to remediate one or more of our material weaknesses or if we fail to establish and maintain effective control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results could be adversely affected. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Prior to our October 2012 initial public offering, we had been a private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources to address our internal control over financial reporting. During the course of preparing for our October 2012 initial public offering, our independent registered public accounting firm undertook audits of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011, which were completed simultaneously. During the course of these audits, material adjustments to various accounts were necessary. In addition, there were certain errors we identified in late 2012 in our consolidated statements of cash flows for the periods ended June 30, 2011 and 2012 and September 30, 2011 and 2012 which caused us to restate the consolidated statements of cash flows for these periods. These adjustments led our independent registered public accounting firm to communicate that we had material weaknesses as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011 as follows and continued into 2012. As of December 31, 2012, the Company has remediated the material weaknesses in bullets two and three below: • we did not have sufficient formalized policies and procedures to ensure that complete and accurate, consolidated financial information was prepared and reviewed timely in accordance with U.S. GAAP; • we lacked sufficient integrated systems to consolidate multi-currency financial information in a complete, accurate and timely manner; • we lacked a sufficient number of resources to completely and accurately record accounting transactions in accordance with U.S. GAAP as well as resources with the technical accounting expertise to completely and accurately account for complex and unique transactions in a timely manner, and to prepare and review financial statements and footnote disclosures; and • we lacked sufficient and timely formalized monthly, quarterly and annual financial data reviews and analysis. These material weaknesses contributed to multiple audit adjustments principally, but not limited to, the following areas: taxes; intercompany transactions, including foreign currency impacts; deferred revenue; equity accounting in connection with our issuance of Series B redeemable convertible preferred shares in 2010; share-based compensation; purchase accounting in connection with our acquisition of SageQuest in July 2010; the 11 Table of Contents consolidation process; and period-end cutoffs for expenses. In addition, as a result of some of these material weaknesses, there were certain errors we identified in late 2012 in our statements of cash flows for the periods ended June 30, 2011 and 2012 and September 30, 2011 and 2012 which caused us to restate the statements of cash flows for these periods. We have begun remediation efforts. For a discussion of our remediation plan, see Item 15 — “Controls and Procedures.” The actions we will take are subject to continued review supported by confirmation and testing by management as well as audit committee oversight. While we are implementing a plan to remediate these weaknesses, we cannot assure you that we will be able to remediate these weaknesses, which could impair our ability to accurately and timely report our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. If we are unable to successfully remediate these material weaknesses, and if we are unable to produce accurate and timely financial statements, our stock price may be adversely affected and we may be unable to maintain compliance with applicable stock exchange listing requirements. Our failure to remediate the material weaknesses identified as of December 31, 2010, December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012, or the identification of additional material weaknesses in the future, could adversely affect our ability to report financial information, including our filing of quarterly or annual reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on a timely and accurate basis. Moreover, our failure to remediate the material weaknesses identified as of December 31, 2010, December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012, or the identification of additional material weaknesses, could prohibit us from complying with certain provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, such as (i) annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the first fiscal year beginning after the effective date of the registration statement related to our October 2012 initial public offering and (ii) a report by our independent registered public accounting firm regarding the effectiveness of such internal control for the first fiscal year beginning after the effective date of the registration statement related to our October 2012 initial public offering if we do not take advantage of an exemption contained in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or JOBS Act. If we do take advantage of this exemption contained in the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” At such time, which could begin as late as our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ending December 31, 2017, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. If we are unable to comply with Section 404 or otherwise are unable to produce timely and accurate financial statements, our stock price may be adversely affected and we may be unable to maintain compliance with exchange listing requirements. We are migrating to a new accounting system and, if this new system proves ineffective, we may be unable to timely or accurately prepare financial reports. We are in the process of upgrading our accounting systems to provide us with the necessary accounting controls needed for our financial reporting requirements as a public company. Any problems associated with the implementation of our new and enhanced accounting platform or the failure to complete such implementation on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to report financial information as our company grows, including the filing of our quarterly or annual reports with the SEC on a timely and accurate basis. After converting from prior systems and processes, we may discover data integrity problems or other issues that, if not corrected, could impact our business or financial results. We have an accumulated deficit and may not be able to sustain profitability, which may negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We reported net income of $5.4 million for 2012, $2.9 million for 2011, and a net loss of $0.7 million for 2010. We cannot predict if we will sustain profitability in the near future or at all. We expect to continue making significant expenditures to develop and expand our business. In addition, as a public company, we will 12 Table of Contents incur additional significant accounting, legal and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. These increased expenditures will make it harder for us to sustain profitability. The recent growth in our revenue and customer base may not be sustainable, and we may not generate sufficient revenue to sustain profitability. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the other risks described in this section, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown events. Accordingly, we may not be able to sustain profitability and the failure to fund our capital requirements may negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. The market in which we participate is highly fragmented and competitive, with low barriers to entry. If we do not compete effectively, our operating results may be harmed. The market for fleet management solutions is highly fragmented, consisting of a significant number of vendors, competitive and rapidly changing, with relatively low barriers to entry. Competition in our market is based primarily on the level of difficulty in installing, using and maintaining solutions, total cost of ownership, product performance, functionality, interoperability, brand and reputation, distribution channels, industries and the financial resources of the vendor. We expect competition to intensify in the future with the introduction of new technologies and market entrants. Mobile service and software providers, such as Google and makers of GPS navigation devices, such as Garmin, provide limited services at lower prices or no charge, such as basic GPS-based mapping, tracking and turn-by-turn directions that could be expanded or further developed to more directly compete with our solutions. We primarily compete with Teletrac, a Trafficmaster Plc Company, and Trimble Navigation Limited, and, to a lesser extent, other companies. Competition could result in reduced operating margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and the loss of market share, any of which would likely cause serious harm to our operating results. Industry consolidation may result in increased competition, which could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in revenue. Some of our competitors have made or may make acquisitions or may enter into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer more comprehensive services than they individually had offered or achieve greater economies of scale. In addition, new entrants not currently considered to be competitors may enter our market through acquisitions, partnerships or strategic relationships. For example, CalAmp Corp., our primary supplier of in-vehicle devices, recently announced the acquisition of Wireless Matrix Corporation, which offers fleet tracking applications. We expect these trends to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions. Many of the potential entrants, particularly those providing enterprise-level solutions and those who historically focused on the long-haul industry, may have competitive advantages over us, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more varied services and larger marketing budgets, as well as greater financial, technical and other resources. The companies resulting from combinations or that expand or vertically integrate their business to include the SMB market that we address may create more compelling service offerings and may offer greater pricing flexibility than we can or may engage in business practices that make it more difficult for us to compete effectively, including on the basis of price, sales and marketing programs, technology or service functionality. These pressures could result in a substantial loss of our customers or a reduction in our revenue. Our inability to adapt to rapid technological change in our industry and related industries could impair our ability to remain competitive and adversely affect our results of operations. The industry in which we compete and related industries are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent introductions of new products and evolving industry standards. In addition to the fleet management solutions industry, we are subject to changes in the automotive, mobile handset, GPS navigation device and work flow software industries. As the technology used in each of these industries evolves, we will face new integration and competition challenges. For example, as automobile manufacturers evolve in-vehicle technology, GPS tracking devices may become standard equipment and compete against our solutions. 13 Table of Contents Furthermore, major gains in fuel efficiency may lead to a relative decrease in the demonstrable return on investment of our solutions perceived by our customers. If we are unable to adapt to rapid technological change, it could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to remain competitive. An assertion by a third party that we are infringing its intellectual property could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses and our business could be harmed. The fleet management and technology industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Much of this litigation involves patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenues of their own, and against whom our own patent portfolio may provide little or no deterrence. For example, on April 20, 2011, we were sued by PJC Logistics, LLC, or PJC, in a patent-infringement case (PJC Logistics, LLC v. Fleet Management Solutions, Inc. et al, Civil Action No. 03:11-cv-815) (United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas). The Northern District of Texas transferred the case to the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota for pretrial purposes. (In re: Vehicle Tracking and Security System (’844) Patent Litigation MDL No. 11-2249 (DWF/SER)). The plaintiff alleged that we infringed U.S. Patent No. 5,223,844 entitled “Vehicle Tracking and Security System.” PJC is seeking damages rather than an injunction. On March 4, 2013, we entered into an agreement with the plaintiffs to settle the case for a one-time cash amount not material to our financial condition, operating results or cash flows and on March 18, 2013, the court entered an order to dismiss the case with prejudice. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we have been threatened with litigation, including litigation by employees, former employees, clients, prospective or former clients. For example, on August 14, 2012, a putative class action complaint was filed in the Sixth Judicial Circuit in Pinellas County, Florida, entitled U.S. Prisoner Transport, et al. v. Fleetmatics USA, LLC, et al., Case No. 1200-9933 CI-20. We removed the case to the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida on September 13, 2012, U.S. Prisoner Transport, et al. v. Fleetmatics USA, LLC, et al., Case No. 8:12-CV-2079. We moved to dismiss the complaint on September 20, 2012. Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on October 4, 2012 and changed the case caption to Brevard Extraditions, Inc., d/b/a U.S. Prisoner Transport, et al. v. Fleetmatics USA, LLC, et al. The amended complaint alleges that we intercepted, recorded, disclosed, and used thousands of telephone calls in violation of Florida Statutes Section 934.03. The amended complaint seeks certification of a putative class of all individuals and businesses residing in Florida who spoke with any representatives of our offices in Florida on the telephone and had their telephone conversations recorded without their consent or advance notice, from the date of the earliest recording by us through the present. The amended complaint seeks statutory damages, injunctive relief, attorney fees, costs and interest. Florida Statutes Section 934.10 permits an aggrieved person to recover “liquidated damages computed at the rate of $100 a day for each day of violation or $1,000, whichever is higher.” We moved to dismiss the amended complaint on October 18, 2012 and plaintiffs filed an opposition on November 1, 2012. Our motion to dismiss is pending before the court. This matter is in its early stages, but there can be no assurance that this matter will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot assure you that we will prevail in any current or future intellectual property infringement litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in such litigation. Defending such claims, regardless of their merit, could be time-consuming and distracting to management, result in costly litigation or settlement, cause development delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. In addition, we could be obligated to indemnify our customers against third parties’ claims of intellectual property infringement based on our solutions. If our solutions violate any third-party intellectual property rights, we could be required to withdraw those solutions from the market, re-develop those solutions or seek to obtain licenses from third parties, which might not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Any efforts to re-develop our solutions, obtain licenses from third parties on favorable terms or license a substitute technology 14 Table of Contents might not be successful and, in any case, might substantially increase our costs and harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Withdrawal of any of our solutions from the market could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we incorporate open source software into our platform. Given the nature of open source software, third parties might assert copyright and other intellectual property infringement claims against us based on our use of certain open source software programs. The terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or courts of other jurisdictions, and there is a risk that those licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions. In that event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our solutions, to re-develop our solutions, to discontinue sales of our solutions, or to release our proprietary software source code under the terms of an open source license, any of which could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies, our business may be adversely affected. Our future success and competitive position depend in large part on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies. We rely on a combination of trademark, patent, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights, all of which provide only limited protection and may not currently or in the future provide us with a competitive advantage. We cannot assure you that any future trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any registered trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. We have one issued U.S. patent, seven pending U.S. patent applications, and two registered U.S. trademarks. We have one Irish patent and one European patent. We also have four pending international patent applications filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty. We cannot assure you that any patents or trademarks will issue from any of our pending or future patent or trademark applications, that any patents or trademarks that issue from such applications will give us the protection that we seek, or that any such patents or trademarks will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. Any patents or trademarks that may issue in the future from our pending or future patent and trademark applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection and may not be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. We cannot assure you that the steps we take will be adequate to protect our technologies and intellectual property, our patent and trademark applications will lead to issued patents or registered trademarks, others will not develop or patent similar or superior technologies or solutions, or that our patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by others. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our solutions are available or where we have employees or independent contractors. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. The steps we have taken and will take may not prevent unauthorized use, reverse engineering, or misappropriation of our technologies and we may not be able to detect any of the foregoing. Others may independently develop technologies that infringe on our intellectual property rights. Defending and enforcing our intellectual property rights may result in litigation, which can be costly and divert management attention and resources. Any such litigation may not be successful even if such rights have been infringed, and an adverse decision could limit the scope of such rights. If our efforts to protect our technologies and intellectual property are inadequate, the value of our intangible assets may be diminished and competitors may be able to replicate our solutions and methods of operations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. 15 Table of Contents We depend in part on confidentiality agreements that may not adequately protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, which could adversely affect our business. We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our proprietary technologies and related processes. In order to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, we rely in part on trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors, and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets or develop similar technologies and processes, and, in either event we would not be able to assert trade secret rights. Further, laws in certain jurisdictions may afford little or no trade secret protection, and any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may compromise our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our intellectual property rights, and failure or inability to obtain or maintain trade secret protection or otherwise protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. We rely on third-party software and other intellectual property to develop and provide our solutions and significant increases in licensing costs or defects in third-party software could harm our business. We rely on software and other intellectual property licensed from third parties to develop and offer our solutions, including mapping software and data from Google to provide solutions to our customers. In addition, we may need to obtain future licenses from third parties to use software or other intellectual property associated with our solutions. We cannot assure you that these licenses will be available to us on acceptable terms, without significant price increases or at all. Any loss of the right to use any such software or other intellectual property required for the development and maintenance of our solutions could result in delays in the provision of our solutions until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available from others, is identified, obtained, and integrated, which could harm our business. Any errors or defects in third-party software could result in errors or a failure of our solutions, which could harm our business. Our solutions integrate with third-party technologies and if our solutions become incompatible with these technologies, our solutions would lose functionality and our customer acquisition and retention could be adversely affected. Our solutions integrate with third-party software and devices to allow our solutions to perform key functions. For example, we offer integration with work flow software products, such as ARRIS Solutions, Garmin GPS navigation devices and fuel card providers such as FleetCor, among others. Although to date this integration has been accomplished using open software interfaces and simple physical linkages, we cannot guarantee that this ease of integration will continue or that we will be able to integrate with other products as easily or without additional cost. Additionally, errors, viruses or bugs may also be present in third-party software that our customers use in conjunction with our solutions. Changes to third-party software that our customers use in conjunction with our solutions could also render our solutions inoperable. Customers may conclude that our software is the cause of these errors, bugs or viruses and terminate their subscriptions. The inability to easily integrate with, or any defects in, any third-party software could result in increased costs, or in delays in software releases or updates to our products until such issues have been resolved, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects and could damage our reputation. 16 Table of Contents We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or address competitive challenges adequately. We increased our number of employees to 476 at December 31, 2012 from 408 at December 31, 2011, 290 at December 31, 2010 and 187 at December 31, 2009. Our subscription revenue increased to $127.5 million in 2012 from $92.3 million in 2011, $64.7 million in 2010 and $46.1 million in 2009. Our growth has placed, and may continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. We intend to further expand our overall business, customer base, headcount and operations both domestically and internationally. Creating a global organization and managing a geographically dispersed workforce will require substantial management effort and significant additional investment in our infrastructure. We will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting procedures and we may not be able to do so effectively. As such, we may be unable to manage our expenses effectively in the future, which may negatively impact our gross profit or operating expenses in any particular quarter. The loss of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract, train and retain other highly qualified personnel, could harm our business. We depend on the continued service and performance of our key personnel, including our senior management. In addition, the sales and customer service-driven focus of our business and employees is vital to our growth plan. The loss of key personnel, including key members of our management team, as well as certain of our key marketing, sales, product development, or technology personnel, could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these employees is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We may experience difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals. If we fail to attract and train new personnel, or fail to retain, focus and motivate our current personnel, our business and growth prospects could be severely harmed. We may expand by acquiring or investing in other companies, which may divert our management’s attention, result in dilution to our shareholders, and consume resources that are necessary to sustain our business. We may in the future acquire complementary products, services, technologies, or businesses. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our portfolio of solutions or our ability to provide our solutions in foreign jurisdictions. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to complete these transactions may often be subject to conditions or approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, these transactions, even if undertaken and announced, may not close. An acquisition, investment, or new business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel, or operations of acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, the acquired company’s technology is not easily adapted to be compatible with ours, or we have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in management or otherwise. Acquisitions may also disrupt our business, divert our resources, and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the development of our business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment, or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown liabilities, including litigation against the companies we may acquire. For one or more of those transactions, we may: • issue additional equity securities that would dilute our shareholders; • use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; 17 Table of Contents • incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay or that may place burdensome restrictions on our operations; • incur large charges or substantial liabilities; or • become subject to adverse tax consequences, or substantial depreciation, deferred compensation or other acquisition-related accounting charges. Any of these risks could harm our business and operating results. We face many risks associated with our plans to expand internationally, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. We anticipate that our efforts to expand internationally will entail the marketing and advertising of our solutions and brand. While our software and websites are designed for ease of localization, we do not have substantial experience localizing our website and software into foreign languages. We also do not have substantial experience in selling our solutions in international markets outside of the U.S., Canada, the U.K. and Ireland or in conforming to the local cultures, standards, or policies necessary to successfully compete in those markets, and we may be required to invest significant resources in order to do so. We may not succeed in these efforts or achieve our customer acquisition or other goals. In some international markets, customer preferences and buying behaviors may be different, and we may use business or pricing models that are different from our traditional subscription model to provide fleet management solutions to customers in those markets or we may be unsuccessful in implementing the appropriate business model. Our revenue from new foreign markets may not exceed the costs of establishing, marketing, and maintaining our international offerings. In addition, the current instability in the eurozone could have many adverse consequences on our international expansion, including sovereign default, liquidity and capital pressures on eurozone financial institutions, reducing the availability of credit and increasing the risk of financial sector failures and the risk of one or more eurozone member states leaving the euro, resulting in the possibility of capital and exchange controls and uncertainty about the impact of contracts and currency exchange rates. In addition, conducting expanded international operations subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in our current markets. These risks include: • localization of our solutions, including the addition of foreign languages and adaptation to new local practices and regulatory requirements; • lack of experience in other geographic markets; • strong local competitors; • the cost and burden of complying with, lack of familiarity with, and unexpected changes in, foreign legal and regulatory requirements; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates or restrictions on foreign currency; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of transfer pricing, value added or other tax systems, double taxation and restrictions and/or taxes on the repatriation of earnings; • dependence on third parties, including commercial partners with whom we do not have extensive experience; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • political, social, and economic instability, terrorist attacks, and security concerns in general; and • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. 18 Table of Contents Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. The investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth in other countries may not produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. Our software contains encryption technologies, certain types of which are subject to U.S. and foreign export control regulations and, in some foreign countries, restrictions on importation and/or use. Any failure on our part to comply with encryption or other applicable export control requirements could result in financial penalties or other sanctions under the U.S. export regulations, including restrictions on future export activities, which could harm our business and operating results. Regulatory restrictions could impair our access to technologies needed to improve our solutions and may also limit or reduce the demand for our solutions outside of the U.S. Our solutions rely on cellular and GPS networks and any disruption, failure or increase in costs could impede our profitability and harm our financial results. Two critical links in our current solutions are between in-vehicle devices and GPS satellites and between in-vehicle devices and cellular networks, which allow us to obtain location data and transmit it to our system. Increases in the fees charged by cellular carriers for data transmission or changes in the cellular networks, such as a cellular carrier discontinuing support of the network currently used by our in-vehicle devices, requiring retrofitting of our in-vehicle devices could increase our costs and impact our profitability. We have initiated activities to migrate new installations to the next generation of cellular network compatibility in order to maximize expected useful life of our in-vehicle devices, however, cellular carriers could in the future migrate allotted bandwidth from one network to another. Also, while we have included the ability to store GPS data in our in-vehicle devices in case of temporary cellular network connectivity failure, widespread disruptions or extended failures of the cellular networks would adversely affect our solutions’ functionality and utility and harm our financial results. GPS is a satellite-based navigation and positioning system consisting of a constellation of orbiting satellites. These satellites and their ground support systems are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage and it is not certain that the U.S. government will remain committed to the operation and maintenance of GPS satellites over a long period. In addition, technologies that rely on GPS depend on the use of radio frequency bands and any modification of the permitted uses of these bands may adversely affect the functionality of GPS and, in turn, our solutions. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the U.S. Department of Defense. The Department of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the satellite signals, but we cannot assure you that they will not do so in the future. Evolving regulation and changes in applicable laws relating to the Internet and data privacy may increase our expenditures related to compliance efforts or otherwise limit the solutions we can offer, which may harm our business and adversely affect our financial condition. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increased regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. We are particularly sensitive to these risks because the Internet is a critical component of our SaaS business model. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services, which could harm our business. Our solutions and products enable us to collect, manage and store a wide range of data related to fleet management such as vehicle location and fuel usage, speed and mileage. A valuable component of our solutions is our ability to analyze this data to present the user with actionable business intelligence. We obtain our data from a variety of sources, including our customers and third-party providers. We cannot assure you that the data we require for our proprietary data sets will be available from these sources in the future or that the cost of such data will not increase. The United States and various state governments have adopted or proposed limitations on 19 Table of Contents the collection, distribution and use of personal information. Several foreign jurisdictions, including the European Union and the United Kingdom, have adopted legislation (including directives or regulations) that increase or change the requirements governing data collection and storage in these jurisdictions. If our privacy or data security measures fail to comply, or are perceived to fail to comply, with current or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations or other liabilities. Moreover, if future laws and regulations limit our clients’ ability to use and share this data or our ability to store, process and share data with our clients over the Internet, demand for our solution could decrease, our costs could increase, and our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our software may contain undetected errors, defects or software errors, which could result in damage to our reputation or harm to our operating results. We warrant that our software will be free of defects for various periods of time. We must update our solutions quickly to keep pace with the rapidly changing market and the third-party software and devices with which our solutions integrate, and we have a history of frequently introducing new versions. Our solutions could contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. In general, our software may not be free from errors or defects, which could result in damage to our reputation or harm to our operating results. Any significant disruption in service on our websites or in our computer systems could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers, which would harm our business and operating results. Our brand, reputation, and ability to attract, retain, and serve our customers are dependent upon the reliable performance of our service and our customers’ ability to access our solutions at all times. Our customers rely on our solutions to make operating decisions related to their fleet, as well as to measure, store and analyze valuable data regarding their businesses. Our solutions are vulnerable to interruption and our data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, computer viruses or hackers, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures, and similar events, any of which could limit our customers’ ability to access our solutions. Prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in connection with adding capacity or upgrading our network architecture may cause our service quality to suffer. Any event that significantly disrupts our service or exposes our data to misuse could damage our reputation and harm our business and operating results, including reducing our revenue, causing us to issue credits to customers, subjecting us to potential liability, harming our churn rates, or increasing our cost of acquiring new customers. We host our solutions and serve all of our customers from our network servers, which are principally located at third-party data center facilities in the Cleveland, Ohio, Denver, Colorado and Dublin, Ireland areas. While we control and have access to our servers and all of the components of our network that are located in our external data centers, we do not control the operation of these facilities. Problems faced by our third-party data center locations, with the telecommunications network providers with whom we or they contract, or with the systems by which our telecommunications providers allocate capacity among their customers, including us, could adversely affect the experience of our customers. Our third-party data centers operators could decide to close their facilities without adequate notice. In addition, any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy, faced by our third-party data centers operators or any of the service providers with whom we or they contract may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. Additionally, if our data centers are unable to keep up with our growing needs for capacity, this could have an adverse effect on our business. Our disaster recovery systems are located at our third-party hosting facilities. While we are increasing redundancy, our systems have not been tested under actual disaster conditions and may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage. In the event of a disaster in which our disaster recovery systems are irreparably damaged or destroyed, we would experience interruptions in access to our products. Any changes in third-party service levels at our data centers or any errors, defects, disruptions, or other performance problems with our solutions could harm our reputation and may damage our data. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenue, cause us to issue refunds to customers, subject us to potential liability, or harm our churn rates. 20 Table of Contents We provide minimum service level commitments to certain of our customers, and our failure to meet them could cause us to issue credits for future subscriptions or pay penalties, which could harm our results of operations. Certain of our customer agreements currently, and may in the future, provide minimum service level commitments regarding items such as uptime, functionality or performance. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments for these customers or suffer extended periods of service unavailability, we are or may be contractually obligated to provide these customers with credits for future subscriptions, provide services at no cost or pay other penalties, which could adversely impact our revenue. We do not currently have any reserves on our balance sheet for these commitments. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could expose us to losses. A significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S., and as such, we face exposure to movements in non-U.S. currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Fluctuation in currency exchange rates impacts our operating results. Currently, we do not actively hedge against these exposures. We intend to hedge only against those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies, which will be intended to offset the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain non-functional currency assets and liabilities. Our future attempts to hedge against these risks could be unsuccessful and expose us to losses. Changes in our effective tax rate may reduce our net income in future periods. While we believe that our organization as an Irish entity should improve our ability to maintain a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate, we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. In general, under current Irish legislation, a company is regarded as resident for tax purposes in Ireland if it is centrally managed and controlled in Ireland, or, in certain circumstances, if it is incorporated in Ireland. Trading income of an Irish resident company is generally taxable at the Irish corporation tax rate of 12.5%. Non-trading income of an Irish resident company (e.g., interest income, rental income or other passive income) is taxable at a rate of 25%. It is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law or the practice of any relevant tax authority or as a result of any change in the conduct of our affairs, we could become, or be regarded as having become tax resident in a jurisdiction other than Ireland. Should we cease to be an Irish tax resident, we may be subject to a charge to Irish capital gains tax as a result of a deemed disposal of our assets. Our actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. Additionally, the tax laws of Ireland, the U.S. and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • increases in expense not deductible for tax purposes, including transaction costs and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in share-based compensation; • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and • challenges to the transfer pricing policies related to our structure. 21 Table of Contents Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax rates generally, tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or changes in the interpretation of such laws, treaties or regulations by the tax authorities in Ireland, the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Such changes may be more likely or become more likely as a result of recent economic trends in the jurisdictions in which we operate, particularly if such trends continue. For example, Ireland has suffered from the consequences of worldwide adverse economic conditions and the credit ratings on its debt have been downgraded. Such changes could cause a material and adverse change in our worldwide effective tax rate and we may have to take action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to mitigate the effect of such changes. In addition, any amendments to the current double taxation treaties between Ireland and other jurisdictions, including the U.S., could subject us to increased taxation. In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by various taxing authorities in the United States, Ireland and the United Kingdom. As of December 31, 2012, we remain subject to examination in the United States for tax years 2004 through 2012, in Ireland for tax years 2007 through 2012, and in the United Kingdom for tax years 2008 through 2012. Failure to manage the risks associated with such changes, or misinterpretation of the laws relating to taxation, could result in increased charges, financial loss, including penalties, and reputational damage and materially and adversely affect our results, financial condition and prospects. Increases in credit card processing fees would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our operating results. A majority of our customers purchase our solutions with credit cards and electronic funds transfers, and our business depends upon our ability to offer credit card payment options, which we offer using third-party processing services. We cannot assure you that credit card issuers will not increase their credit card processing fees, which could in turn lead to increases in the fees charged by our third-party processors. In addition, our third-party processors, like any credit card issuer, could increase their credit card processing fees if we experience excessive chargebacks or for other reasons. Given the percentage of our revenue received from credit card purchases, any increase in processing fees could adversely affect our business and operating results. If we are unable to detect and prevent unauthorized use of credit cards and bank account numbers, we could be subject to financial liability, our reputation could be harmed and customers may be reluctant to use our solutions. We rely on third-party encryption and authentication technology to provide secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet, including customer credit card and bank account numbers. Advances in technological capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect sensitive transaction data. If any such compromise of our security, or the security of our customers, were to occur, it could result in misappropriation of proprietary information or interruptions in operations and have an adverse impact on our reputation or the reputation of our customers. If we are unable to detect and prevent unauthorized use of credit cards and bank account numbers, our business could suffer. Our operating results may be harmed if we are required to collect sales, services or other related taxes for our solutions in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so. We do not believe that we are required to collect sales, use, services or other similar taxes from our customers in certain jurisdictions. However, one or more countries or states may seek to impose sales, use, services, or other tax collection obligations on us, including for past sales. A successful assertion by one or more jurisdictions that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our solutions could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales and decrease our ability to compete for future sales. Each country and each state has different rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes and these rules and regulations are subject to 22 Table of Contents varying interpretations that may change over time. We review these rules and regulations periodically and, when we believe sales and use taxes apply in a particular jurisdiction, voluntarily engage tax authorities in order to determine how to comply with their rules and regulations. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to sales and use taxes or related penalties for past sales in jurisdictions where we presently believe sales and use taxes are not due. We reserve estimated sales and use taxes on our financial statements but we cannot be certain that we have made sufficient reserves to cover taxes. Providers of goods or services are typically held responsible by taxing authorities for the collection and payment of any applicable sales and similar taxes. If one or more taxing authorities determines that taxes should have, but have not, been paid with respect to our solutions, we may be liable for past taxes in addition to being required to collect sales or similar taxes in respect of our solutions going forward. Liability for past taxes may also include very substantial interest and penalty charges. Our client contracts provide that our clients must pay all applicable sales and similar taxes. Nevertheless, clients may be reluctant to pay back taxes and may refuse responsibility for interest or penalties associated with those taxes or we may determine that it would not be feasible to seek reimbursement. If we are required to collect and pay back taxes and the associated interest and penalties and if our clients do not reimburse us for all or a portion of these amounts, we will have incurred unplanned expenses that may be substantial. Moreover, imposition of such taxes on our solutions going forward will effectively increase the cost of such solutions to our clients. Many states are also pursuing legislative expansion of the scope of goods and services that are subject to sales and similar taxes as well as the circumstances in which a vendor of goods and services must collect such taxes. Furthermore, legislative proposals have been introduced in Congress that would provide states with additional authority to impose such taxes. Accordingly, it is possible that either federal or state legislative changes may require us to collect additional sales and similar taxes from our clients in the future. Risk Related to Ownership of Ordinary Shares Our failure to raise additional capital or generate the cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in our business could reduce our ability to compete successfully. We anticipate that our available funds will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, need, or could elect to seek, additional financing at any time. Our ability to obtain financing will depend on, among other things, our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. If we need to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional equity financing, our shareholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests, and the per share value of our ordinary shares could decline. If we engage in additional debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that further restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios and limit the operating flexibility of our business. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things: • develop or enhance our solutions; • continue to expand our development, sales, and marketing teams; • acquire complementary technologies, products, or businesses; • expand our operations in the U.S. or internationally; • hire, train, and retain employees; • respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements; or • continue our operations. 23 Table of Contents Our share price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors in our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares were sold to the public in our October 2012 initial public offering at $17.00 per share, and as of February 28, 2013, our ordinary shares have subsequently traded as high as $27.45 per share and as low as $19.20 per share. Market prices for securities of companies like ours have historically been particularly volatile in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Some of the factors that may cause the market price for our ordinary shares to fluctuate include: • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our key operating metrics, financial condition, and operating results; • loss of existing customers or inability to attract new customers; • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate; • announcements of technological innovations or new offerings by us or our competitors; • our announcement of actual results for a fiscal period that are lower than projected or expected or our announcement of revenue or earnings guidance that is lower than expected; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • failure of any of our solutions to achieve or maintain market acceptance; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • success of competitive products or services; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant products or services, contracts, acquisitions, or strategic alliances; • regulatory developments in the U.S. or other countries; • actual or threatened litigation involving us or our industry; • additions or departures of key personnel; • general perception of the future of the fleet management market or our solutions; • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; • further issuances of ordinary shares by us; • sales of ordinary shares by our shareholders; • repurchases of ordinary shares; and • changes in general economic, industry, and market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management’s attention and resources, and harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, recent fluctuations in the financial and capital markets have resulted in volatility in securities prices. 24 Table of Contents A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the public market in the near future, which could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market could occur at any time after the expiration or waiver of the lock-up agreements entered into as the result of our October 2012 initial public offering and January 2013 follow-on offering. These sales, or the market perception that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our ordinary shares. As of February 14, 2013, we had 34,635,305 ordinary shares outstanding. A total of 17,890,493 shares, representing 51.7% of our outstanding ordinary shares are currently restricted as a result of securities laws or lock-up agreements but may be sold, subject to any applicable volume limitations under federal securities laws, in the near future as set forth below. Number of Shares and % of Total Outstanding First Date Available for Sale into Public Market 50,834 shares, or 0.15% April 2, 2013 (subject to extension), upon the expiration of lock-up agreements entered into, prior to our October 2012 initial public offering; however, the representatives of the underwriters can waive the provisions of these lock-up agreements and allow these shareholders to sell their shares at any time 17,839,659 shares, or 51.5% April 30, 2013, due to lock-up agreements between the holders of these shares and the underwriters entered into in connection with the offering In addition, certain stockholders have or will have rights after the expiration or waiver of the lock-up agreements, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. If Fleetmatics Investor Holdings, L.P., our principal shareholder, or some other shareholder sells substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, or if there is a perception in the public market that Fleetmatics Investor Holdings, L.P. might sell our ordinary shares, the market price of our ordinary shares could decrease significantly. A decline in the price of our ordinary shares might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our ordinary shares or other equity securities. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our shares adversely, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ordinary shares will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors. Securities and industry analysts do not currently, and may never, publish research on us. If no securities or industry analysts commence coverage of our company, our share price and trading volume would likely be negatively impacted. If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendation regarding our shares adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our share price would likely decline. If any of the analysts who may cover us were to cease coverage or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. Our directors, executive officers, and holders of more than 5% of our ordinary shares as of February 14, 2013 together with their affiliates, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 22,445,711 of our outstanding ordinary shares, which could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Our directors, executive officers, and holders of more than 5% of our ordinary shares as of February 14, 2013, together with their affiliates, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 64.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares and Fleetmatics Investor Holdings, L.P., which is controlled by its limited partners and Investcorp Technology Fund III Limited Partnership, its general partner, beneficially own approximately 25 Table of Contents 47.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, may have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and any sale, merger or consolidation. In addition, these shareholders, acting together, may have the ability to control or influence the management of our affairs. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 for an extended period of time, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although if the market value of our ordinary shares that are held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time and in certain other circumstances, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of the following December 31. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an “emerging growth company” can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an “emerging growth company” can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we are electing to not take advantage of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to not take advantage of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. We are a “foreign private issuer” under the New York Stock Exchange rules, and as such we are entitled to exemption from certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards, and you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements, and you may not receive corporate and company information and disclosure that you are accustomed to receiving or in a manner in which you are accustomed to receiving it. We are a “foreign private issuer,” as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act, and we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. For example, we intend to follow Irish practice with respect to the quorum requirements for meetings of our shareholders as set forth in our articles of association, which are different from the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. The quorum required for a general meeting of shareholders is at least two persons present in person or by proxy at a meeting and holding shares representing at least 50% of the issued shares carrying voting rights. Under Irish law, there is no general statutory requirement for equity compensation plans to be approved by way of shareholder resolution, which is different than the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. As such, while we may choose to seek shareholder approval for any equity compensation plans, we do not intend to adopt any requirements for shareholder approval of such plans in our memorandum and articles of association. Other than the foregoing, we do not intend to follow home country corporate governance practices instead of the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. 26 Table of Contents Further, as a “foreign private issuer” the rules governing the information that we disclose differ from those governing U.S. corporations pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act. We are not required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or provide current reports on Form 8-K disclosing significant events within four days of their occurrence. In addition, our officers and directors are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and related rules with respect to their purchase and sales of our securities. Our exemption from the rules of Section 16 of the Exchange Act regarding sales of ordinary shares by insiders means that you will have less data in this regard than shareholders of U.S. companies that are subject to the Exchange Act. Moreover, we are exempt from the proxy rules, and proxy statements that we distribute will not be subject to review by the SEC. Accordingly there may be less information concerning our company publicly available than there is for other U.S. public companies. We may lose our foreign private issuer status which would then require us to comply with the Exchange Act’s domestic reporting regime and cause us to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. We are a foreign private issuer and therefore we are not required to comply with all of the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. We may no longer be a foreign private issuer as of June 30, 2013, which would require us to comply with all of the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act applicable to U.S. domestic issuers as of January 1, 2014. In order to maintain our current status as a foreign private issuer, either (a) a majority of our ordinary shares must be either directly or indirectly owned of record by non-residents of the United States or (b) (i) a majority of our executive officers or directors may not be United States citizens or residents, (ii) more than 50 percent of our assets cannot be located in the United States and (iii) our business must be administered principally outside the United States. If we lost this status, we would be required to comply with the Exchange Act reporting and other requirements applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, which are more detailed and extensive than the requirements for foreign private issuers. We may also be required to make changes in our corporate governance practices in accordance with various SEC and New York Stock Exchange rules. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws if we are required to comply with the reporting requirements applicable to a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly higher than the cost we would incur as a foreign private issuer. As a result, we expect that a loss of foreign private issuer status would increase our legal and financial compliance costs and would make some activities highly time consuming and costly. We also expect that if we were required to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, it would make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our ordinary shares and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our ordinary shares. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares and do not intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to support the operation of, and to finance the growth and development of, our business. Any future determination to declare cash dividends will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors, subject to compliance with applicable laws (including the Irish Companies Acts which require Irish companies to have “profits available for distribution” before they can pay dividends) and covenants under current or future credit facilities, which may restrict or limit our ability to pay dividends and will depend on our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. As a result, a return on your investment may only occur if our share price appreciates. 27 Table of Contents Provisions contained in our articles of association, as well as provisions of Irish law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our articles of association and certain provisions of the Irish Companies Acts contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our Board of Directors. In addition, our articles of association provide that our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, class I, class II and class III, with each class serving three-year staggered terms so that only one third of our Board of Directors will be subject to re-election in any one year. There are a number of mechanisms for acquiring an Irish public limited company, including a court-approved scheme of arrangement under the Irish Companies Acts, through a tender offer by a third party and by way of a merger with a company incorporated in the European Economic Area under the European Communities (Cross-Border Mergers) Regulations 2008. Each method requires shareholder approval or acceptance and different thresholds apply. In addition, we are subject to the Irish Takeover Rules, which will govern a takeover or attempted takeover of the company by means of a court-approved scheme of arrangement or a tender offer. These Rules contain detailed provisions for takeovers including as to disclosure, dealing and timetable. The Irish Takeover Rules could discourage an investor from acquiring 30% or more of the outstanding ordinary shares of the company unless such investor were prepared to make a bid to acquire all outstanding ordinary shares. Our Board of Directors may be limited by the Irish Takeover Rules in its ability to defend an unsolicited takeover attempt. We are subject to the Irish Takeover Rules, under which we will not be permitted to take certain actions which might “frustrate” an offer for our ordinary shares once our Board of Directors has received an offer, or has reason to believe an offer is or may be imminent, without the approval of more than 50% of shareholders entitled to vote at a general meeting of our shareholders and/or the consent of the Irish Takeover Panel. This could limit the ability of our Board of Directors to take defensive actions even if it believes that such defensive actions would be in the best interests of our company and shareholders. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the U.S. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the U.S. against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the U.S. currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland. As an Irish company, we are governed by Irish law, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers 28 Table of Contents of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or other officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of Fleetmatics Group PLC shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of shares of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the U.S. The rights of our shareholders may differ from the rights typically offered to shareholders of a U.S. corporation and these differences may make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors. We are incorporated under Irish law and, therefore, certain of the rights of holders of our shares are governed by Irish law, including the provisions of the Irish Companies Acts, and by our articles of association. These rights differ in certain respects from the rights of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations and these differences may make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors. The principal differences include the following: • under Irish law, dividends may only be declared if we have, on an individual entity basis, profits available for distribution, within the meaning of the Irish Companies Acts; • under Irish law, each shareholder present at a meeting has only one vote unless a poll is called, in which case each holder gets one vote per share owned. Under U.S. law, each shareholder typically is entitled to one vote per share at all meetings. Under Irish law, it is only on a poll that the number of shares determines the number of votes a holder may cast; • under Irish law, each shareholder generally has preemptive rights to subscribe on a proportionate basis to any issuance of shares. Under U.S. law, shareholders generally do not have preemptive rights unless specifically granted in the certificate of incorporation or otherwise. Pre-emption rights may be disapplied under Irish law for renewable five year periods by Irish companies by way of a provision in their articles of association or special resolution of their shareholders, which is an option we availed ourselves of prior to our initial public offering; • under Irish law, certain matters require the approval of 75% of the shareholders, including amendments to our articles of association. This may make it more difficult for us to complete corporate transactions deemed advisable by our Board of Directors. Under U.S. law, generally only majority shareholder approval is required to amend the certificate of incorporation or to approve other significant transactions; • under Irish law, a bidder seeking to acquire us would need, on a tender offer to receive shareholder acceptance in respect of 80% of our outstanding shares. If this 80% threshold is not achieved in the offer, under Irish law, the bidder cannot complete a “second step merger” to obtain 100% control of us. Accordingly, tender of 80% of our outstanding shares will be a condition in a tender offer to acquire us, not 50% as is more common in tender offers for corporations organized under U.S. law; and • under Irish law, shareholders may be required to disclose information regarding their equity interests upon our request, and the failure to provide the required information could result in the loss or restriction of rights attaching to the shares, including prohibitions on the transfer of the shares, as well as restrictions on voting, dividends and other payments. Comparable provisions generally do not exist under U.S. law. A future transfer of your ordinary shares, other than one effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in DTC, may be subject to Irish stamp duty. Transfers of ordinary shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the Depositary Trust Company, or DTC, should not be subject to Irish stamp duty. It is anticipated that the majority of ordinary shares will be traded through DTC, either directly or through brokers who hold such ordinary shares on behalf of customers through DTC. However, if you hold your ordinary shares directly rather than beneficially through 29 Table of Contents DTC (or through a broker that holds your ordinary shares through DTC), any transfer of your ordinary shares could be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the ordinary shares acquired). Payment of Irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. The potential for stamp duty to arise could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. U.S. Holders of our shares could be subject to material adverse tax consequences if we are considered a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We do not believe that we are a passive foreign investment company, and we do not expect to become a passive foreign investment company. However, our status in any taxable year will depend on our assets and activities in each year, and because this is a factual determination made annually after the end of each taxable year, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a passive foreign investment company for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. If we were a passive foreign investment company while a taxable U.S. holder held our shares, such U.S. holder would generally be subject to an interest charge on any deferred taxation and any “excess distributions” and gain upon the sale of our stock would generally be taxed as ordinary income to such U.S. holder. See “Taxation—Material United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders—Passive foreign investment company.” Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. 