D. Risk Factors-Strict PRC laws on foreign investment may have an adverse impact on the operation of our joint venture in China and impede our business expansion in China.” In addition, as PRC laws and regulations are evolving gradually, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainties that could limit the reliability of the legal protections available to us. The PRC administrative and court authorities also have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory terms. Thus, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we have in the PRC legal system than in more developed legal systems. As a result, we may encounter difficulties when bringing legal claims against our PRC-based joint venture partners. A serious dispute with our joint venture partners or other business partners may cause the loss of business opportunities or disruption to or termination of the relevant project or business venture. Such dispute may also give rise to litigation or other legal proceedings, which would divert our management’s attention and other resources, and if a decision or award is rendered against us, we could be required to pay significant monetary damages, assume other liabilities and suspend or terminate the related project or operations. In the event that we encounter any of the foregoing issues, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to recover the value of our initial investment in the event that the joint ventures are terminated or we divest our interests to third parties. On February 18, 2013, shareholders of Digital Li-Ning Company Limited entered into an agreement to terminate the joint venture. We carried out a net realizable value analysis based on a liquidation scenario and recorded an impairment loss of US$0.7 million, based on the difference between the carrying amount of investment and the expected net realizable value of US$0.2 million. The actual net relizable value could differ from the foregoing estimate. The other joint venture of us, Huaren Commercial Trading Co., Ltd., has been unprofitable and does not have a definitive business plan. Therefore, the shareholders of Huaren Commercial Trading Co., Ltd. have been contemplating strategic options, including but not limited to a sale of the business or a voluntary liquidation. Taking into account of the foregoing factors, we believe that indicators of the investment impairment were present and engaged an independent valuation firm to determine the fair value of our investment. Based on the results of the valuation, we reduced the carrying value of our investment to zero and recorded a $6.3 million impairment loss. There is no assurance that any future strategic option undertaken will generate liquidation or divestment proceeds to offset this impairment loss. Strict PRC laws and regulations on foreign investment may adversely impact the operation of our joint venture in China. China has adopted strict laws and regulations regarding foreign investment in the PRC. Besides the Company Law of the PRC, our joint venture in the PRC must also comply with the Law of the PRC on Chinese-Foreign Equity Joint Ventures and its Implementation Rules, which apply to foreign-invested enterprises established in the form of an equity joint venture and provide restrictions on distribution of profits. The PRC government also imposes strict controls over foreign currency exchange. The conversion of Renminbi for capital account items is subject to the approval or verification of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, and our PRC joint venture is required to apply to SAFE for a foreign exchange registration certificate for foreign-invested enterprise, which is subject to review and renewal by SAFE on an annual basis. Failure to pass the SAFE annual review or timely file changes with SAFE may subject us to administrative penalties. In addition, foreign investment and ownership in certain PRC industries are subject to limitations. Foreign investors must comply with the Catalogue for the Guidance of Foreign Investment Industries and other applicable PRC laws and regulations regarding foreign investment in specific industries. Furthermore, those PRC laws and regulations may change and new restrictions may be imposed on our investment and business in the PRC. For example, in August 2011, the PRC government adopted the Security Review System in Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, under which mergers and acquisitions transactions by foreign investors of domestic enterprises in sensitive sectors or industries may be subject to security review. Due to the uncertainty of the newly adopted security review system, our potential expansion in the PRC through mergers and acquisitions may be subject to security review. The security review procedures are time-consuming and uncertain, which may impede our business expansion in the PRC. Our success depends upon our executive officers and other key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contribution of our executive officers and other key personnel. In particular, the senior management team of Acquity Group LLC has an average of more than 20 years of experience in brand e-commerce and digital marketing. Our executive officers and key personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time despite any employment agreements we may have with these employees. Due to the competition for highly qualified personnel, we cannot be sure that we will be able to retain or attract executive, managerial or other key personnel. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. Our executive officers or key personnel may not comply with the non-competition restrictions in their employment agreements and leave us to join our competitors. The loss of any of our key personnel could harm our business if we are unable to effectively replace that person, if we incur significant operating expenses and direct management time to search for a replacement, or if that person should join one of our competitors or otherwise compete with us. In addition, pursuant to the Deed in Respect of the Bonds Issued by 2020 China Holdings, Ltd., entered into on April 3, 2012 among China Holdings, Datai Bay, SHK and Equity Partners, or the 2012 deed, Equity Partners shall use its best efforts to sell on 14 Table of Contents behalf of Datai Bay all of our ordinary shares that are held by Datai Bay during a selling period commencing after the lock-up period of our initial public offering. Equity Partners shall be entitled to a performance fee relating to the level of returns achieved by Datai Bay as a result of such sales as specified in the 2012 deed. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions— B. Related Party Transactions—Performance fees payable to Equity Partners.” Equity Partners is a limited liability company 49.9% owned by G. George Lu, our executive chairman and group chief executive, and 10.0% owned by Adrian Chan, our director and company secretary. As a director and executive officer of our company, each of Mr. Lu and Mr. Chan has certain fiduciary duties to our company under Cayman Islands law. Such obligations of Equity Partners under the 2012 deed and the potential incentive of the performance fee could partially divert Mr. Lu and Mr. Chan’s attention from their primary duties and responsibilities to our company during the selling period of the shares. We may be liable if third parties misappropriate our or our clients’ or customers’ personal information from our network. We cannot be assured that our security measures will prevent security breaches. A compromise of our security systems that results in customers’ personal information being obtained by an unauthorized person could result in litigation against us and fines imposed on us, and could adversely affect customers’ willingness to utilize our and our clients’ businesses, as well as our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, any security breach could require that we expend significant resources to strengthen the security of our information systems and result in a disruption of our online operations. We are subject to regulations relating to consumer privacy. We collect and maintain customer data from our customers, which subjects us to increasing international, federal and state regulations related to online privacy and the use of personal user information. Legislation and regulations are pending in various domestic and international governmental bodies that address online privacy protections. Several governments have proposed, and some have enacted, legislation that would limit the use and transfer of personal user information or require online service providers to establish privacy policies. In addition, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, has urged Congress to adopt legislation regarding the collection and use of personal identifying information obtained from individuals when accessing websites, including both adults and minors. Even in the absence of laws requiring companies to establish these procedures, the FTC has settled several proceedings resulting in consent decrees in which internet companies have been required to establish programs regarding the manner in which personal information is collected from users and provided to third parties. We could become a party to a similar enforcement proceeding. These regulatory and enforcement efforts could limit our collection of and/or ability to share with our clients demographic and personal information from customers, which could adversely affect our ability to comprehensively serve our clients. We may be unable to hire and retain skilled personnel which could limit our growth. Given the rapid developments in the digital marketing and brand e-commerce sector, hiring and retaining skilled professionals who are able to deliver high-quality services is critical to our business. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, the average number of our project personnel was 202, 288 and 408, respectively. Due to intense competition for these individuals from our competitors and other employers, we may not be able to attract or retain highly qualified personnel in the future. Our failure to attract and retain the experienced and highly trained personnel that are integral to our businesses may limit our growth. Additionally, we have experienced recent growth in personnel numbers and expect to continue to hire additional personnel in selected areas. Managing this growth requires significant time and resource commitments from our senior management. If we are unable to effectively manage a large and geographically dispersed group of employees or to anticipate our future growth and personnel needs, we may not be able to retain skilled personnel and our business may be adversely affected. If we grant employee share options or other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be adversely affected. In November 2011 we adopted our 2011 Share Incentive Plan. Our share incentive plan permits the grant of incentive share options, non-statutory share options, restricted shares, restricted share units, share appreciation rights, performance units, performance shares and other share-based awards to employees, directors and consultants of our company. Pursuant to the 2011 Share Incentive Plan, we granted 1,838,172 restricted shares to certain employees and directors on January 1, 2013, of which 2,500 restricted shares are reserved for potential settlement of 2,500 restricted share units granted on January 1, 2013, assuming certain specified vesting criteria is satisfied. As a result of such grant and potential future grants under the plan, we will incur share-based compensation expenses in future periods. The amount of these expenses will be based on the fair value of the share-based awards. We will apply IFRS 2, Share-based Payments for the accounting treatment of our share incentive plan. As a result, we will have to account for compensation costs for all share options, including share options granted to our directors and employees, using a fair-value based method and recognize expenses in our consolidated statement of income in accordance with the relevant rules under IFRS, which will reduce our profit. Therefore, additional share-based compensation we may grant in the future may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Beginning with our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2013, we will be required to prepare a management report on our internal control over financial reporting containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our annual report on Form 20-F following the date on which we cease to qualify as an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years following the date of our initial public offering. Even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Risks related to our ordinary shares and ADSs The trading prices of our ADSs are likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading prices of our ADSs are likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely due to factors beyond our control. This may happen because of broad market and industry factors, such as the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States. A number of companies engaged in e-commerce business have listed or are in the process of listing their securities on U.S. stock markets. The securities of some of these companies have experienced significant volatility, including price declines in connection with their initial public offerings. The trading performances of these companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward such companies listed in the United States as a whole and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume of our ADSs may be highly volatile for factors specific to our own operations, including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; · variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow; · announcements of new investments, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; · announcements of scientific developments or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; · announcements of new products or services and expansions by us or our competitors; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · additions or departures of our executive officers and key personnel; · release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding equity securities or sales of additional equity securities; · potential litigation or regulatory investigations; and · fluctuations in market prices for our products or services. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. Furthermore, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to 16 Table of Contents the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of March 31, 2013, the latest practicable date, we had 47,032,820 ordinary shares outstanding, represented by 23,516,410 ADSs. In addition, the Company granted 1,838,172 restricted shares to certain employees and directors on January 1, 2013, of which 2,500 restricted shares are reserved for potential settlement of 2,500 restricted share units granted on January 1, 2013, assuming certain specified vesting criteria is satisfied. All ADSs are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act. The remaining ordinary shares outstanding will be available for sale, subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of our ADSs. In addition, pursuant to the 2012 deed, Equity Partners shall use its best efforts to sell on behalf of Datai Bay all of our ordinary shares that are held by Datai Bay during a selling period commencing October 23, 2012 and ending 18 months after April 26, 2012. If Equity Partners determines that there is sufficient market demand, SHK may participate in such sales, or may independently sell our ordinary shares that are held by it during such selling period. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions —Performance fees payable to Equity Partners.” Such sales of our ordinary shares that are held by Datai Bay and SHK during the selling period could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our amended and restated articles of association contain provisions which could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights as our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our amended and restated articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but you may not receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our executive officers, directors, principal shareholders and affiliated entities. As of March 31, 2013, the latest practicable date, our executive officers, directors, principal shareholders and their affiliated entities beneficially own approximately 61.3% of our outstanding shares. These shareholders, if they act together, could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including electing directors and approving mergers or other business 17 Table of Contents combination transactions and they may not act in the best interests of minority shareholders. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders, including you. The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, if you do not vote, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings unless: · we have failed to timely provide the depositary with notice of meeting and related voting materials; · we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; · we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; · a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or · the voting at the meeting is to be made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, except under the circumstances described above. This may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive dividends or other distributions on our ordinary shares and you may not receive any value for them, if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities underlying our ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings, and you may not receive distributions with respect to the underlying ordinary shares if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either 18 Table of Contents registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our ADSs less attractive to investors. We are a “foreign private issuer,” as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act, and are not required to comply with certain periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for up to five fiscal years after the date of our initial public offering. We will cease to be an “emerging growth company” upon the earliest of: the last day of the fiscal year during which we have gross revenues of US$1 billion or more, the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of our initial public offering, the date on which we have issued more than US$1 billion in non-convertible debt during the previous three-year period, or when we become a “large accelerated filer,” as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act. We cannot predict if investors will find our ADSs less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ADSs less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ADSs and the trading price of our ADSs may be more volatile. We have incurred increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we have incurred a significantly higher level of legal, accounting and other expenses than we did as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and the NYSE MKT, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. 19 Table of Contents We may lose our foreign private issuer status in the future, which could result in significant additional costs and expenses. We are a “foreign private issuer,” as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act, and therefore, we are not required to comply with all the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and related rules and regulations. Under Rule 405, the determination of foreign private issuer status is made annually on the last business day of an issuer’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter and, accordingly, the next determination will be made with respect to us on June 30, 2013. In the future, we would lose our foreign private issuer status if it is determined that a majority of our outstanding voting securities are directly or indirectly held of record by U.S. residents and if a majority of our shareholders or a majority of our directors or management are U.S. citizens or residents, a majority of our assets are located in the United States, or our business is administered principally in the United States. If we were to lose our foreign private issuer status, we would have to comply with U.S. federal proxy requirements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders would become subject to the short-swing profit disclosure and recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act. We would also be required to present financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and to file periodic reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. As a result, the regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly higher. We may also be required to modify certain of our policies to comply with corporate governance practices associated with U.S. domestic issuers. Such conversion and modifications would involve additional costs. The planned conversion of our financial statements from IFRS to U.S. GAAP may strain our resources and increase our expenses. As a foreign private issuer, we currently report our financial results under IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. We plan to voluntarily change the financial reporting standards we apply to our financial statements from IFRS to U.S. GAAP in 2013. There remains potentially significant and material differences in several key areas between U.S. GAAP and IFRS. In addition, U.S. GAAP provides specific guidance for certain classes of accounting transactions for which equivalent guidance in IFRS does not exist. The planned voluntary conversion to U.S. GAAP may have an impact on a few aspects of our operations, including but not limited to financial accounting and reporting systems. In addition, there may be additional compliance requirements in association with preparing financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, such as the requirement of providing financial statements in an interactive format using XBRL, which currently does not apply to foreign private issuers that prepare their financial statements in accordance with IFRS. It is possible that a significant amount of time, internal and external resources and expenses may be required for this conversion. The planned conversion of our financial reporting system may strain our resources and delay the production of financial reports. We plan to change the enterprise resource planning system we currently use in 2013. The planned change may have an impact on our financial accounting and reporting, including but not limited to the timeliness and accuracy of our financial reports. It is possible that a significant amount of time, internal and external resources and expenses may be required to facilitate this change. We may be or become a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors in our ADSs or ordinary shares. A non-U.S. corporation will be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year in which (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value (determined on a quarterly basis) of its assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. Based on the composition of our income and value of our assets, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2012 and do not currently expect to be a PFIC for our taxable year ending December 31, 2013. However, a separate determination must be made at the close of each taxable year as to whether we are a PFIC for such year. In addition, our PFIC status will depend upon the composition of our income and assets from time to time, including the value of our ADSs at any such time. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year or any future taxable year. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences and additional reporting requirements could apply to that U.S. holder. You are urged to consult your tax advisor regarding our possible status as a PFIC. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive foreign investment company.” 