D. Risk Factors An investment in our capital stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this annual report, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our capital stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 5 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We rely on China’s automotive industry for substantially all of our revenues and future growth, the prospects of which are subject to many uncertainties, including government regulations and policies. We rely on China’s automotive industry for substantially all of our revenues and future growth. We have greatly benefited from the growth of China’s automotive industry during the past few years. However, China’s automotive industry is still at an early stage of development and are subject to many uncertainties. We cannot predict how this industry will develop in the future. Further, the growth of China’s automotive industry could be affected by many factors, including general economic conditions in China, the urbanization rate of China’s population, the growth of disposable household income, the cost of new automobiles as well as tax and incentives related to automobile purchases. In addition, governmental policies may have a considerable impact on the growth of the automotive industry in China. For example, in an effort to alleviate traffic congestion and improve air quality, the Beijing municipal government issued a regulation in December 2010 to limit the number of new passenger vehicle plates issued in Beijing each year to 240,000 commencing in 2011, and the limitation was subsequently further reduced to 150,000 starting from 2014. There are similar policies that restrict the issuance of new passenger vehicle plates in several other cities, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Tianjin, Guiyang, Shijiazhuang, Hangzhou and Shenzhen. Other cities such as Chengdu, Chongqing and Wuhan may take measures to limit the number of purchases of automobiles. In September 2013, the PRC government released a plan for the prevention and remediation of air pollution, which requires large cities such as Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou to further restrict the ownership of motor vehicles. In October 2013, the Beijing municipal government issued an additional regulation to limit the total number of vehicles in Beijing to no more than six million by the end of 2017, compared to approximately 5.2 million vehicles in operation by the end of 2013. In 2015, the PRC government released high automobile emission standards and new tax benefits for electric cars. Since late 2014, the PRC government has released a series of incentive policies for new energy-efficient vehicles. Beginning from late 2011, the National Development and Reform Commission, one of China’s antitrust regulatory authorities, initiated a series of investigations into the pricing practices of foreign automobile companies in China in connection with allegations of the lack of fair competition. These investigations may lead to price reductions due to enhanced competition. Such regulatory developments, as well as other uncertainties, may adversely affect the growth prospects of China’s automotive industry, and in turn reduce demand for automobiles. If automakers and automobile dealers were to reduce their marketing expenditures as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We face significant competition, and if we fail to compete effectively, we may lose market share and our business, prospects and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The markets for our services are highly competitive. With respect to our advertising services, we face competition from China’s automotive websites, such as xcar.com.cn, pcauto.com.cn and bitauto.com, from the automotive channels of major internet portals, such as Sina and Sohu, and from social media and online video websites. We may also face competition from other websites engaged in the online automobile transaction business, such as bitauto.com and tmall.com, as we develop our transaction platform. In addition, we also face competition from other used-automobile websites, such as 51auto.com, taoche.com, youxinpai.com, guazi.com and renrenche.com. Competition with these and other websites is primarily centered on increasing user reach, user engagement and brand recognition, relationships with the suppliers, and attracting and retaining advertisers or customers, among other factors. Some of our competitors or potential competitors have longer operating histories and may have greater financial, management, technological, development, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. They may use their experience and resources to compete with us in a variety of ways, including by competing more heavily for users, advertisers and dealers, investing more heavily in research and development and making acquisitions. Some of our competitors have entered or may enter into business cooperation agreements with search engines, which may impact our ability to obtain additional user traffic from the same sources. Our competitors may be acquired and consolidated by, or cooperate with, industry conglomerates who are able to further invest with significant resources into our operating space. We cannot assure you that any such large internet business will not in the future focus on the automotive sector. If we are unable to compete effectively and at a reasonable cost against our existing and future competitors, our business, prospects and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For our advertising business and dealer subscription business, we also face competition from traditional advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, yellow pages, television, radio and outdoor media. Advertisers in China generally allocate a significant portion of their marketing budgets to traditional advertising media. If we cannot effectively compete with traditional media for the marketing budgets of our existing and potential customers, our results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely affected. For our transaction business, as online automobile transaction is a relatively new business model and consumers in China might be accustomed to make automobile purchases with traditional dealerships, we cannot guarantee that the automobile consumers in China will accept such business model. If we cannot earn consumer recognition and trust in our transaction business, our results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents If we fail to attract and retain users and advertisers, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In order to maintain and strengthen our position as the leading online destination for automobile consumers in China, we must continue to attract and retain users to our websites, which requires us to continue to provide quality content throughout the automobile-ownership cycle. We must also innovate and introduce services and applications that enhance user experience. In addition, we must maintain and enhance our brand recognition among consumers. If we fail to provide high-quality content, offer a superior user experience or maintain and enhance our brand recognition, we may not be able to attract and retain users. If our user base decreases, our websites may be rendered less attractive to advertisers and our advertising services and dealer subscription services revenues may decline, which may have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully monetize and expand our mobile internet services. We plan to continue to expand our mobile internet services and explore monetization strategies for our mobile internet services. We have made significant efforts in recent years to optimize the mobile version of our websites to display our content and develop new mobile applications to capture a greater number of users that access our services through mobile devices. For example, the number of our average daily unique users who access our websites via mobile devices and the number of our average daily unique users of our mobile applications amounted to approximately 7.7 million and 6.1 million, respectively, in December 2015. However, if we are unable to attract and retain a substantial number of mobile device users, or if we do not keep up with our competitors in developing attractive services that are adapted for such mobile devices, we may fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the mobile internet market for our services or lose existing users. Furthermore, we are still in the midst of experimenting with early monetization strategies for our mobile internet services. Advertisers currently spend less on advertising on mobile devices as compared to advertising on PCs, and may not increase their advertising spending on mobile devices in the future. If our users continue to allocate more time on our mobile services instead of our traditional PC services, mobile monetization may become increasingly important to our results of operations. Accordingly, if we are unable to successfully implement monetization strategies for our mobile internet users, our results of operations may be negatively affected. A limited number of automaker advertisers have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a significant portion of our revenues. The failure to maintain or to increase revenues from these advertisers could harm our prospects. A limited number of automaker advertisers have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a significant portion of our revenues. Our top five advertisers, all of whom were automakers, contributed 15.0%, 9.8% and 11.1% of our net revenues in 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. In each of 2013, 2014 and 2015, 75, 85 and 87 automakers operating in China used our advertising services. These automakers include independent Chinese automakers, joint ventures between Chinese and international automakers and international automakers that sell cars made outside of China. We believe that our major future revenue growth will be focused on deepening our existing commercial relationships with automakers to increase our share of each automaker’s advertising budget. If we fail to do so, our growth prospects could be harmed. Due to the limited number of automakers operating in China and our revenue concentration attributable to a small number of these companies, any of the following events, among others, may cause a material decline in our revenue and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and prospects: • contract reduction, delay or cancellation by one or more significant advertisers and our failure to identify and acquire additional or replacement advertisers; • a substantial reduction by one or more of our significant advertisers in the price they are willing to pay for our services; and • financial difficulty of one or more of our significant advertisers who become unable to make timely payment for the advertisements placed on our websites. 7 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully monetize and expand our dealer network. We had local sales and service representatives covering 202 cities across China as of December 31, 2015. We intend to increase our penetration in existing dealer advertising and subscription services markets and expand into new geographic markets. China is a large and diverse country and business practices and demands may vary significantly by region and by the level of development of the cities. Our experience in the markets in which we currently operate may not be applicable in other parts of China or in the lower tier cities in China. We may not be able to leverage our experience to expand into new geographic markets or in the lower tier cities in China. As a result, our monetization and expansion strategies, including our “share of wallet” approach, sales and marketing efforts designed to attract dealer advertisers and maximize the conversion of registered dealers using our free basic listing service into dealer subscribers, may be unsuccessful. Furthermore, expanding into new geographical markets or lower tier cities will require us to hire additional employees to cover these markets. We will incur additional compensation and benefit costs, office rental expenses and other costs, as well as additional strain on our managerial resources. In addition, we intend to further monetize our existing dealer network by converting dealers that currently use our free listing service into dealer subscribers, increasing the average spending of our existing dealer subscribers and upselling our premium packages with higher rates for our dealer subscription services. If we are unable to successfully monetize and expand our dealer network and to generate sufficient revenues to cover our increased costs and expenses, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends on strong brand recognition, and failing to maintain or enhance our brands could adversely affect our business and prospects. Maintaining and enhancing our “Autohome” and “Che168” brands is critical to our business and prospects. We believe that brand recognition will become increasingly important as the number of internet users in China grows and competition in our industry intensifies. A number of factors could prevent us from successfully promoting our brands, including user dissatisfaction with the content offered on our websites, negative publicity involving our business and the failure of our sales and marketing activities. If we fail to maintain and enhance our brands, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to conduct our marketing activities cost-effectively, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We have incurred expenses on a variety of different marketing and brand promotion efforts designed to enhance our brand recognition and increase sales of our products and services. Our marketing and promotional activities may not be well received by customers and may not result in the levels of sales of products and services that we anticipate. We incurred RMB245.2 million, RMB559.1 million and RMB1,127.5 million (US$174.1 million) in sales and marketing expenses in 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively, representing 20.2%, 26.2% and 32.6%, respectively, of total net revenues in the corresponding years. Marketing approaches and tools in the consumer products market in China are evolving. This further requires us to enhance our marketing approaches and experiment with new marketing methods to keep pace with industry developments and consumer preferences, which may not be as cost-effective as our marketing activities in the past and may lead to significantly higher marketing expenses in the future. We conducted various sales and marketing initiatives to promote our brands through search engines, mobile platforms and navigation sites, a 10-year anniversary campaign, “Singles’ Day” event and various offline promotional activities such as the “Group Buy” initiative. For example, we have entered into an arrangement with Baidu for a 12-month period that started from July 1, 2014, for enhanced automotive-related content search results on PCs powered by “Aladdin,” Baidu’s open platform initiative, and we continued our cooperation with Baidu as an exclusive supplier for automotive-related content on PCs powered by “Aladdin” for a six-month period that started from August 25, 2015. We also cooperate with brands and dealers for promotions in target regions. We may not be able to continue or conduct these activities efficiently, and our marketing activities may not yield satisfactory results. Failure to refine our existing marketing approaches or to introduce new effective marketing approaches in a cost-effective manner could impact our net revenues and profitability. 8 Table of Contents Inaccuracy in pricing and listing information provided by our dealer customers may adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our automobile listings and promotional information are provided and continuously updated by our dealer customers. Users interested in particular vehicle models can conveniently search for up-to-date information on such models without having to visit the local showrooms of relevant dealers. If such listings and promotional information provided by our dealer customers are frequently inaccurate or not reliable, our users may lose faith in our websites, resulting in reduced user traffic to our websites and diminished value to advertisers. We may receive more customer complaints, and we may need to allocate more resources in responding and handling such complaints. We cannot guarantee that such complaints will be resolved in satisfactory. Our reputation could be harmed, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. We may not be able to manage our expansion and new business initiatives effectively. We have experienced rapid growth in our business in recent years. The number of our employees has grown rapidly from 1,191 as of December 31, 2013 to 1,771 as of December 31, 2014 and 3,292 as of December 31, 2015. Our net revenues increased from RMB1,216.5 million in 2013 to 2,132.9 million in 2014 and RMB3,464.0 million (US$534.7 million) in 2015, representing a CAGR of 68.7%. We expect to continue to grow our user base and our business operations. Our rapid expansion and new business initiatives may expose us to new challenges and risks. To manage the further expansion of our business, we need to continuously expand and enhance our infrastructure and technology, and improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and internal controls. We also need to train, manage and motivate our growing employee base. In addition, we need to maintain and expand our relationships with automaker and dealer advertisers, advertising agencies and other third parties. We cannot assure you that our current and planned personnel, infrastructure, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our expanding operations. We may be required to increase our sales and marketing expenses in order to support any such expansion and our efforts may not be effective. If we fail to manage our expansion and new business initiatives effectively or efficiently, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with advertising agencies or if we are unable to collect accounts receivable from advertising agencies in a timely manner, our results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Although we consider automakers and automobile dealers to be our end-customers for our advertising business and dealer subscription business, we sell our advertising services and solutions primarily to third-party advertising agencies that represent the automakers and automobile dealers, as is customary in China. Our top ten advertising agencies accounted for 44.0%, 38.7% and 39.2% of our total net revenues in 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. In 2013, 2014 and 2015, our largest agency accounted for 6.7%, 5.9% and 6.9% of our total net revenues, respectively. We do not have long-term cooperation agreements or exclusive arrangements with these agencies and they may elect to direct business to other advertising service providers, including our competitors. If we fail to retain and enhance our business relationships with third-party advertising agencies, we may suffer from a loss of advertisers and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. In our agreements with certain major advertising agencies, we undertake to provide them with most favored pricing terms. Such most favored pricing terms may hinder our ability to acquire new customers using special pricing terms. In addition, we rely on third-party advertising agencies for the collection of payment from our advertisers. As a result, the financial soundness of our advertising agencies may affect our collection of accounts receivables. We make a credit assessment of the advertising agency to evaluate the collectability of the advertising service fees before entering into an advertising contract. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately assess the creditworthiness of each advertising agency, and any failure of advertising agencies to pay us in a timely manner may adversely affect our liquidity and cash flows. 9 Table of Contents If online advertising does not continue to grow in China, our ability to increase revenue and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. The use of the internet as a marketing medium in China has been growing recently but remains in an early stage as compared to the developed markets. The expansion of China’s internet population may be limited by a number of factors, including limitations on network infrastructure and social and political uncertainties, among others. Many of our current and potential advertisers and dealer subscribers have limited experience with the internet as a marketing medium, and they have not devoted a significant portion of their marketing budgets to online marketing and promotion until recently. As a result, they may not consider the internet as the most effective medium to promote or sell automobiles as compared to traditional print and broadcast media. Our ability to increase revenue and profitability from online marketing may be adversely impacted by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • difficulties associated with developing a larger user base with demographic characteristics attractive to advertisers; • increased competition and potential downward pressure on online advertising prices; • difficulties in acquiring and retaining advertisers or dealer subscribers; • failure to develop an independent and reliable means of verifying online traffic; and • decreased use of the internet or online marketing in China. If the internet does not become more widely accepted as an effective media platform for advertising and marketing by China’s automotive industry, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to grow our transaction business, we may not be able to achieve our expected business growth and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We started to develop our transaction business in 2014 and has expanded to include direct vehicle sales and commission-based services facilitating transactions through our transaction platform. In June 2014, we launched Autohome Mall, an online transaction platform that we believe will allow us to be a transaction facilitator as we develop our transaction business. The success of our transaction business depends, in part, on third parties and factors over which we have limited control. We may incur more investment on inventory. We will need to react quickly to meet the changing consumer preferences and buying trends relating to our transaction business. We will also face competition from other websites engaged in the online automobile transaction business as well as from traditional dealerships. In addition, we also rely on our dealership partners to perform order fulfillments for vehicles sold on our platform. We may not be able to cooperate with dealership partners on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may not have full control over the order fulfillment procedures, and any dissatisfaction from the consumers might harm our reputation. Furthermore, we must keep up to date with competitive technology trends, including the use of new or improved technology, creative user interfaces and other transaction marketing tools, such as paid search and mobile applications among others, which may increase our costs and which may not succeed in increasing sales or attracting consumers. Developing the transaction business may require significant investment in product development, sales and marketing and working capital, and we may not be able to get the expected return on our investment. As online automobile transaction is a relatively new business model, we cannot guarantee that the automobile consumers in China will accept such business model. Due to the limited operating history of our transaction business, we cannot predict that whether the consumers will trust our platform or view us as an option for purchasing automobile. Finally, developing the transaction business may take up our management’s time and allow them less time to focus on our existing core business. Our transaction business is substantially dependent on the new vehicle sales level in China, which is sensitive to changing economic conditions. Our failure to successfully mitigate these risks and uncertainties might adversely affect the sales or margins in our transaction business, as well as damage our reputation and brand. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to meet the consumers’ demand for vehicles depend in part on our ability to maintain a reasonable level of inventory. We must maintain a reasonable level of inventory of new vehicles in terms of their quantity and selection to satisfy the consumers’ needs in a timely manner. Our inventories was RMB111.7 million (US$17.2 million) as of December 31, 2015 as we expanded our transaction business. As we plan to continue expanding our transaction business, we expect to include more vehicles in our inventory, which will make it more challenging for us to manage our inventory effectively and will put more pressure on our inventory system. If we fail to manage our inventory effectively, we may be subject to a heightened risk of inventory obsolescence, a decline in inventory values, and significant inventory write-downs or write-offs. We may misjudge customer demand and result in unexpected inventory build-up or possible inventory write-downs. In addition, we may be required to lower sale prices in order to reduce inventory level, which may lead to lower or even negative gross margins. High inventory levels may also require us to commit substantial capital resources, preventing us from using that capital for other important purposes. If our inventory is too low, our ability to satisfy the consumers’ needs may be compromised, which may harm our reputation and result in lost revenues. Any of the above may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to manage and maintain our relationships with automakers, our ability to obtain a desirable mix of popular vehicles for our transaction platform will be adversely affected. If we are unable to offer vehicles that attract new consumers and new purchases from existing consumers on our transaction platform, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our future growth depends on our ability to continue to attract new consumers as well as new purchases from existing consumers. Constantly changing consumer preferences have affected and will continue to affect the online automobile retail industry. We must stay abreast of emerging consumer preferences and anticipate product trends that will appeal to existing and potential consumers. Our new automobile sales are influenced by the automakers’ abilities to anticipate changes in consumer tastes, preferences and requirements, including those driven by environmental or popular trends, and to manufacture and deliver to us in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis, a desirable, high quality and price-competitive mix of new vehicles to sell to our consumers. The most popular vehicles usually generate the highest profit margins and are frequently difficult to obtain from the automakers. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of the most popular models, our profitability may be adversely affected. Sales of less desirable models may reduce our profit margins. We source vehicles from automakers for our online transaction platforms. Maintaining strong relationships with these automakers is important to the growth of our business. We cannot assure you that our current automaker suppliers will continue to sell vehicles to us on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we maintain good relations with the automakers, their ability to supply products to us in sufficient quantity and at competitive prices may be adversely affected by economic conditions, labor actions, regulatory or legal decisions, natural disasters or other causes. Furthermore, some automakers may limit the number of vehicle sales maintained by a certain platform or dealership. Automakers may also prefer to offer vehicles to their franchise dealerships instead of us. Some automakers may not approve our applications as a sales partner for its certain vehicles or may require certain purchase commitments from us, which could materially compromise our growth strategies and business prospects. Any adverse developments in our relationships with suppliers could materially and adversely affect our business and growth prospects. In addition, as part of our growth strategy, we plan to further expand our product offerings. If we fail to attract new suppliers to sell their vehicles to us or on our platform due to any reason, our business and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to grow our used automobile-related business through our repositioned che168.com website, we may not be able to achieve our expected business growth and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Historically, we have delivered content related to new and used automobiles through both autohome.com.cn and che168.com websites whose user bases overlap to some extent. We redesigned our che168.com website in October 2011 to focus on used automobile information and content. Through this website, we offer used automobile listing services to dealers and individual car owners through a user interface that allows potential used car buyers to identify listings that meet their specific requirements and contact the dealer or individual selling the selected car. In 2015, we started to trial used car transaction business in selected cities in China and completed and facilitated used car transaction between sellers and buyers. 11 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully grow our used automobile-related business through our repositioned che168.com website and our used car transaction platforms. Although the used automobile market in China is growing due to the increased number of consumer-owned automobiles, there is still significant uncertainty regarding the extent to which our used automobile- business may benefit from such growth. We may not be able to attract a broad user base to our che168.com website. Even if we are able to grow our user base, we may not be able to establish a business model that allows us to successfully monetize the user traffic. We may not be able to successfully facilitate used car transactions and our services might not be satisfactory to the used car buyers or sellers. In such cases, we may not be able to achieve our expected business growth and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our business is subject to fluctuations, which makes our results of operations difficult to predict and may cause our quarterly results of operations to fall short of expectations. Our quarterly revenues and other operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate depending upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our historical results as an indication of our future performance. For instance, our advertising services revenues typically increase in the second quarter as automakers increase marketing activities in connection with China’s major auto shows, and in the fourth quarter as advertisers seek to complete year-end marketing campaigns. Demand for our advertising services is generally lowest in the first quarter of each year, primarily due to a general slowdown in business activities and a reduced number of working days during the Chinese New Year holiday period. Our transaction business has not experienced similar trends due to its limited operating history and rapid growth but seasonality may increase in the future. In addition, because a significant portion of our advertising services revenues is attributable to new model promotion campaigns, the timing of new car releases of our major automaker advertisers can have a significant impact on our results of operations. The timing of such releases, however, is subject to uncertainty due to various factors, such as automakers’ design or manufacturing issues, marketing conditions and government incentives or restrictions. These factors may make our results of operations difficult to predict and cause our quarterly results of operations to fall short of expectations. Problems with our network infrastructure or information technology systems could impair our ability to provide services. Our ability to provide our users with a high quality online experience depends on the continuing operation and scalability of our network infrastructure and information technology systems. Our systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption as a result of earthquakes, floods, fires, extreme temperatures, power loss, telecommunications failures, technical error, computer viruses, hacking or similar events. We may encounter problems when upgrading our systems or services and undetected programming errors could adversely affect the performance of the software we use to provide our services. The development and implementation of software upgrades and other improvements to our internet services is a complex process, and issues not identified during pre-launch testing of new services may only become evident when such services are made available to our entire user base. In addition, we rely on content delivery networks, data centers and other network facilities provided by third parties. Any disruption to these network facilities may result in service interruptions, decreases in connection speed, degradation of our services or the permanent loss of user data and uploaded content. If we experience frequent or persistent service disruptions, whether caused by failures of our own systems or those of third-party service providers, our reputation or relationships with our users or advertisers may be damaged and our users and advertisers may switch to our competitors, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Computer viruses and “hacking” may cause delays or interruptions on our systems and may reduce use of our services and damage our reputation and brand. Computer viruses and “hacking” may cause delays or other service interruptions on our systems. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions, loss or corruption of data, including user identity data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could result in significant damage to our hardware and software systems and databases, disruptions to our business activities, including our e-mail and other communications systems, breaches of security and inadvertent disclosure of confidential or sensitive information, interruptions in access to our website through the use of “denial of service” or similar attacks and other material adverse effects on our operations. We have experienced hacking attacks in the past, and although such attacks in the past have not had a material adverse effect on our operations, there is no assurance that there will be no serious computer viruses or hacking attacks in the future. We may incur significant costs to protect our systems and equipment against the threat of, and to repair any damage caused by, computer viruses and hacking. Moreover, if a computer virus or hacking affects our systems and is highly publicized, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged and use of our services may decrease. Failure to protect confidential information of our customers and network against security breaches could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Ensuring secured transmission of confidential information through public networks is essential to maintaining the confidence of our customers and users. Our existing security measures may not be adequate to protect such confidential information. In addition, computer and network systems are susceptible to breaches by computer hackers. Security breaches could expose us to litigation and potential liability for failing to secure confidential customer information and could harm our reputation and reduce our ability to attract customers and users. Future security breaches, if any, may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission and security of personal information by companies operating over the internet and mobile platforms have recently come under increased public scrutiny. As e-commerce continues to evolve, we believe that increased regulation by the PRC government of data privacy on the internet is likely. We may become subject to new laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information that could affect how we store, process and share data with our customers. We generally comply with industry standards and are subject to the terms of our own privacy policies. Compliance with any additional laws could be expensive and may place restrictions on the conduct of our business and the manner in which we interact with our customers. Any failure to comply with applicable regulations could also result in regulatory enforcement actions against us. Significant capital and other resources may be required to protect against information security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches or to comply with our privacy policies or privacy-related legal obligations. The resources required may increase over time as the methods used by hackers and others engaged in online criminal activities are increasingly sophisticated, well-funded and constantly evolving. Any failure or perceived failure by us to prevent information security breaches or to comply with privacy policies or privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other customer data, could cause our customers to lose trust in us and could expose us to legal claims. Any perception by the public that online transactions or the privacy of user information is becoming increasingly unsafe or vulnerable to attacks could inhibit the growth of online retail and other online services generally, which may reduce the number of orders we receive. The continuing and collaborative efforts of our senior management, key employees and highly skilled personnel are crucial to our success, and our business may be harmed if we were to lose their services. Our success depends on the continuous effort and services of our senior management team and other key personnel. If one or more of our executive officers or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue to provide us with their services, we might not be able to replace them within a short period of time or at all. Our business could be severely disrupted, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and we might incur additional expenses to recruit, train and retain personnel. If any of our executive officers joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose advertisers, know-how and key professionals and staff members. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with Beijing Cheerbright Technologies Co., Ltd., or Autohome WFOE, which contains non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between us and our executive officers, we may have to incur substantial costs and expenses in order to enforce these agreements in China. 13 Table of Contents Our performance and future success also depend on our ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in the automotive and internet advertising industries and the online automobile transaction industry for qualified employees is intense, and if competition in these industries further intensifies, it may be more difficult for us to hire, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel. If we do not succeed in attracting additional highly skilled personnel or retaining or motivating our existing personnel, we may be unable to grow effectively or at all. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and business may suffer. We rely on a combination of trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection laws in the PRC and other jurisdictions, as well as through confidentiality agreements and other measures, to protect our intellectual property rights. Our major brand names and logos are registered trademarks in China. Most of our professionally produced content available on our websites and proprietary software are protected by copyright laws. Despite our precautions, third parties may obtain and use our intellectual property without our authorization. Historically, the legal system and courts of the PRC have not protected intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system and courts of the United States, and companies operating in the PRC continue to face an increased risk of intellectual property infringement. Furthermore, the validity, application, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights for many internet-related activities, such as internet commercial methods patents, are uncertain and still evolving in China and abroad, which may make it more difficult for us to protect our intellectual property. From time to time, other websites may use our articles, photos or other content without our proper authorization. Although such use has not in the past caused any material damage to our business, it is possible that there may be misappropriation on a much larger scale with a material adverse impact to our business. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights in the future, our brand and business may suffer. We may be vulnerable to intellectual property infringement claims brought against us by others. Internet, technology and media companies are frequently involved in litigation based on allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights, unfair competition, invasion of privacy, defamation and other violation of other parties’ rights. We have never experienced any material claims on these issues against us in the past, but as we face increasing competition and as litigation becomes more common in China in resolving commercial disputes, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is displayed on our websites or accessible from our websites through links to other websites or information on our websites supplied by third parties. Intellectual property claims and litigation are expensive and time-consuming to investigate and defend and may divert resources and management attention from the operation of our websites. Such claims, even if they do not result in liability, may harm our reputation. Any resulting liability or expenses, or changes required to our websites to reduce the risk of future liability, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to liability for advertisements and other content placed on our websites. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing advertising content as well as internet access and the distribution of information over the internet. Under PRC advertising laws and regulations, we are obligated to monitor the advertising content shown on our websites to ensure that such content is true and accurate and in full compliance with applicable laws and regulations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation—Regulations on Advertisements.” Under the internet information regulations, internet content providers and internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the internet content that, among other things, compromises national security, harms the dignity or interests of the state, incites ethnic hatred or racial discrimination, undermines the PRC’s religious policy, disturbs social order, disseminates obscenity or pornography, encourages gambling, violence, murder or fear, incites the commission of a crime, infringes upon the lawful rights and interests of a third party, or is otherwise prohibited by law or administrative regulations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation—Regulations on Internet Content Services.” 14 Table of Contents We display advertisements on our websites. In addition, through our websites and user forums, we allow users to upload written materials, images, pictures and other content on our websites, and also allow users to share and link to content from other websites through our websites. Failure to identify and prevent illegal or inappropriate content from being displayed on or through our websites may subject us to liability. We cannot assure you that all of the advertisements and content shown or posted on our websites adhere to the advertising and internet content laws and regulations, especially given the uncertainty in the interpretation of these PRC laws and regulations. If PRC regulatory authorities determine that any advertisements or content displayed on our websites do not adhere to applicable laws and regulations, they may require us to limit or eliminate the dissemination or availability of such advertisements and other content on our websites in the form of take-down orders or otherwise. Such regulatory authorities may also impose penalties on us, including fines, confiscation of advertising income or, in circumstances involving more serious violations by us, the termination of our advertising or internet content license, any of which would materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to claims by consumers asserting that the information on our websites is misleading, and we may not be able to recover our losses from advertisers. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may undertake acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or other alliances that could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business or otherwise negatively impact our operating results and the value of your investment. As part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate potential acquisitions, investments and alliances, including joint ventures and minority equity investments. These transactions involve numerous risks, including: • the failure to achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition, investment or alliance; • difficulties in, and the cost of, integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel; • write-offs of investments or acquired assets; • non-performance by, or conflicts of interest with, the parties with whom we enter into investments or alliances; • limited ability to monitor or control the actions of other parties with whom we enter into investments or alliances; • misuse of proprietary information shared in connection with an acquisition, investment or alliance; and • depending on the nature of the acquisition, investment or alliance, exposure to new regulatory risks. The realization of any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business. To the extent any of our directors or officers also invests in a capacity other than as our director or officer, his or her interest may not be aligned with ours. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders may be diluted, which could affect the market price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we may fail to identify or secure suitable acquisition, investment and other strategic opportunities, or our competitors may capitalize on such opportunities before we do, which could impair our ability to compete with our competitors and adversely affect our growth prospects and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Any financial or economic crisis, or perceived threat of such a crisis, including a significant decrease in consumer confidence, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, European and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and the global financial markets are facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011, the hostilities in the Ukraine, the end of quantitative easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve and the economic slowdown in the Eurozone in 2014. It is unclear whether these challenges will be contained and what effects they each may have. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Recently there have been signs that the rate of China’s economic growth is declining. Any prolonged slowdown in China’s economic development might lead to tighter credit markets, increased market volatility, sudden drops in business and consumer confidence and dramatic changes in business and consumer behaviors. In response to their perceived uncertainty in economic conditions, consumers might delay, reduce or cancel purchases of automobiles, which are still considered luxury items in China, and our advertisers may also defer, reduce or cancel purchasing our services. To the extent any fluctuations in the Chinese economy significantly affect automakers’ and dealers’ demand for our services or change their spending habits, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our third-party vendors may raise prices and as a result increase our operating expenses. We rely on third parties for certain essential services, such as internet services and we may not have any control over the costs of the services they provide. Any third-party service provider may raise their prices, which might not be commercially reasonable to us. If we are forced to seek other providers, there is no assurance that we will be able to find alternative providers willing or able to provide comparable high-quality services and there is no assurance that such providers will not charge us higher prices for their services. If the prices that we are required to pay third-party vendors for services rise significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance requirements, which may result in public investors not having as much protection as they would if we were not a controlled company. As of February 29, 2016, Telstra Holdings Pty Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Telstra Corporation Limited, or Telstra, owned 54.6% of the total voting rights in our company, and we are a “controlled company” under Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. As a controlled company, we rely on certain exemptions that are available to controlled companies from the NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that: • a majority of our board of directors consists of independent directors; • our compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors; and • our corporate governance and nominating committee be composed entirely of independent directors. We are not required to and will not voluntarily meet these requirements. As a result of our use of the “controlled company” exemption, our investors will not have the same protection as they would if we were not a controlled company. In addition, because Telstra beneficially owns 54.6% of the voting rights in our company, it has decisive influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. Without the consent of Telstra, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of Telstra may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. Furthermore, Telstra’s business activities, although not related to our operations, may adversely impact reputation. 16 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results or prevent fraud may be adversely affected, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely impacted. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2015. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures—Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.” Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report, which has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective in all material aspects as of December 31, 2015. However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could in turn result in loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business. We have a limited operating history. Autohome.com.cn and che168.com were launched in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our company was incorporated in June 2008 and acquired the entities that operated these two websites soon thereafter. Although we have achieved profitability in recent periods, our limited operating history makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult. Historical results of operations achieved by us should not be taken as indicative of the rate of growth, if any, that can be expected in the future. You should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties fast-growing companies with limited operating histories may encounter. We have limited business insurance coverage. Insurance companies in China currently do not offer as extensive an array of insurance products as insurance companies do in more developed economies. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance to cover our operations. We have determined that the costs of insuring for these risks and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. Any uninsured occurrence of business disruption may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We face risks related to health epidemics and natural disasters. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of H1N1 flu, avian flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic. China reported a number of cases of SARS in 2003, which resulted in the closure of many businesses by the PRC government to prevent the transmission of SARS. In recent years, there have been reports of occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. In 2009, the global spread of H1N1 flu resulted in several confirmed infections and deaths in China. Restrictions on travel resulting from any prolonged outbreak of H1N1 flu, avian flu, SARS or another epidemic could adversely affect our ability to market our services to users, automakers and automobile dealers throughout China. Our business operations could be disrupted if one of our employees is suspected of having H1N1 flu, avian flu, SARS or another epidemic, which could require that a certain number of our employees be quarantined and/or our offices be disinfected. In addition, our results of operations could be adversely affected to the extent that H1N1 flu, avian flu, SARS or another outbreak harms the Chinese economy in general. We are also vulnerable to natural disasters and other calamities. Although our servers are hosted in an offsite location, our backup system does not capture data on a real-time basis and we may be unable to recover certain data in the event of a server failure. We cannot assure you that any backup systems will be adequate to protect us from the effects of fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, war, riots, terrorist attacks or similar events. Any of the foregoing events may give rise to server interruptions, breakdowns, system failures, technology platform failures or internet failures, which could cause the loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware as well as adversely affect our ability to provide services. In addition, a severe disaster could affect the operations or financial condition of our customers and suppliers, which could harm our results of operations. For example, certain Japanese automakers or their joint ventures in China delayed or cancelled advertising campaigns following the earthquake and tsunami in Japan in March 2011. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, final content, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law published for public comments and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations. The Ministry of Commerce published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law in January 2015 aiming to, upon its enactment, replace the trio of existing laws regulating foreign investment in China, namely, the Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law, the Sino-foreign Cooperative Joint Venture Enterprise Law and the Wholly Foreign-invested Enterprise Law, together with their implementation rules and ancillary regulations. The draft Foreign Investment Law embodies an expected PRC regulatory trend to rationalize its foreign investment regulatory regime in line with prevailing international practice and the legislative efforts to unify the corporate legal requirements for both foreign and domestic investments. The Ministry of Commerce solicited comments on this draft in 2015, but no new draft has been published since then. As such, substantial uncertainties exist with respect to its enactment timetable, final content, interpretation and implementation. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may materially impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations in many aspects. Among other things, the draft Foreign Investment Law expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of “actual control” in determining whether a company is considered a foreign-invested enterprise, or an FIE. The draft Foreign Investment Law specifically provides that entities established in China but “controlled” by foreign investors will be treated as FIEs, whereas an entity set up in a foreign jurisdiction would nonetheless be, upon market entry clearance by the Ministry of Commerce, treated as a PRC domestic investor provided that the entity is “controlled” by PRC entities and/or citizens. In this connection, “control” is broadly defined in the draft law to cover the following summarized categories: (i) holding 50% of more of the voting rights of the subject entity; (ii) holding less than 50% of the voting rights of the subject entity but having the power to secure at least 50% of the seats on the board or other equivalent decision making bodies, or having the voting power to exert material influence on the board, the shareholders’ meeting or other equivalent decision making bodies; or (iii) having the power to exert decisive influence, via contractual or trust arrangements, over the subject entity’s operations, financial matters or other key aspects of business operations. Once an entity is determined to be an FIE, it will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in a “negative list,” to be separately issued by the State Council later. Unless the underlying business of the FIE falls within the negative list, which calls for market entry clearance by the Ministry of Commerce, prior approval from the government authorities as mandated by the existing foreign investment legal regime would no longer be required for establishment of the FIE. The VIE structure has been adopted by many PRC-based companies, including us, to obtain necessary licenses and permits in the industries that are currently subject to foreign investment restrictions in China. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions— Contractual Agreements with our Variable Interest Entities” and “—If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our services in China do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in internet businesses, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we could be subject to severe penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations” below. Under the draft Foreign Investment Law, VIEs that are controlled via contractual arrangement would also be deemed as FIEs, if they are ultimately “controlled” by foreign investors. Therefore, for any companies with a VIE structure in an industry category that is on the “negative list,” the VIE structure may be deemed legitimate only if the ultimate controlling person(s) is/are of PRC nationality (either PRC companies or PRC citizens). Conversely, if the actual controlling person(s) is/are of foreign nationalities, the VIEs will be treated as FIEs and any operation in the industry category on the “negative list” without market entry clearance may be considered as illegal. 18 Table of Contents The draft Foreign Investment Law has not taken a position on what actions will be taken with respect to existing companies with a VIE structure, whether or not these companies are controlled by Chinese parties, while it is soliciting comments from the public on this point. The provision of internet content services, which we conduct through our VIEs, is subject to foreign investment restrictions set forth in the Catalogue for the Guidance of Foreign Investment Industries, or the Catalogue, issued by the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce in March 2015. It is unclear whether the new “negative list” will be different from the Catalogue. If the enacted version of the Foreign Investment Law and the final “negative list” mandate further actions, such as Ministry of Commerce market entry clearance or certain restructuring of our corporate structure and operations, to be completed by companies with existing VIE structure like us, we face substantial uncertainties as to whether these actions can be timely completed, or at all, and our business and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may also materially impact our corporate governance practice and increase our compliance costs. For instance, the draft Foreign Investment Law imposes stringent ad hoc and periodic information reporting requirements on foreign investors and the applicable FIEs. Aside from the investment implementation report and investment amendment report that are required at each investment and alteration of investment specifics, an annual report is mandatory, and large foreign investors meeting certain criteria are required to report on a quarterly basis. Any company found to be non-compliant with these information reporting obligations may potentially be subject to fines and/or administrative or criminal liabilities, and the persons directly responsible may be subject to criminal liabilities. If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our services in China do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in internet businesses, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we could be subject to severe penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations. Current PRC laws and regulations place certain restrictions on foreign ownership of companies that provide internet content services in China. Specifically, foreign ownership of internet service providers or other value-added telecommunication service providers may not exceed 50%. In addition, according to the Several Opinions on the Introduction of Foreign Investment in the Cultural Industry promulgated by the Ministry of Culture, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, or the SARFT, the General Administration of Press and Publication, or the GAPP, the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce in June 2005, foreign investors are prohibited from investing in or operating “internet cultural activities.” We are a Cayman Islands company and foreign legal person under PRC laws. Accordingly, neither we nor our wholly foreign-invested PRC subsidiaries are currently eligible to apply for the required licenses for providing internet content services in China. As such, we conduct our business through contractual arrangements in China. In particular, we operate our internet content business through Autohome Information and Shengtuo Hongyuan. Autohome Information and Shengtuo Hongyuan are currently owned by individual shareholders who are PRC citizens and hold the requisite licenses or permits to provide internet content and advertising services in China. We do not have an equity interest in Autohome Information or Shengtuo Hongyuan but substantially control their operations and receive the economic benefits through a series of contractual arrangements. We have been and are expected to continue to be dependent upon Autohome Information and its subsidiaries and Shengtuo Hongyuan and its subsidiaries to operate our businesses in the near future. For more information regarding these contractual arrangements, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions— Contractual Agreements with our Variable Interest Entities.” Based on the advice of our PRC legal counsel, TransAsia Lawyers, the corporate structure of our VIEs and our subsidiaries in China are in compliance with all existing PRC laws and regulations. However, as there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree that our corporate structure or any of the above contractual arrangements comply with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. PRC laws and regulations governing the validity of these contractual arrangements are uncertain and the relevant government authorities have broad discretion in interpreting these laws and regulations. 19 Table of Contents If we or any of our current or future VIEs or subsidiaries are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT, which regulates internet information services companies and the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including levying fines, confiscating our income or the income of Autohome WFOE, Chezhiying WFOE and the VIEs, revoking the business licenses or operating licenses of Autohome WFOE, Chezhiying WFOE and the VIEs, shutting down our servers or blocking our websites, discontinuing or placing restrictions or onerous conditions on our operations, requiring us to undergo a costly and disruptive restructuring, or taking other enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations and severely damage our reputation, which would in turn materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, if the imposition of any of these penalties causes us to lose the rights to direct the activities of the VIEs or our right to receive their economic benefits, we would no longer be able to consolidate the VIEs. Our contractual arrangements with our VIEs may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on (i) contractual arrangements with Autohome Information and its subsidiaries and shareholders and (ii) contractual arrangements with Shengtuo Hongyuan and its subsidiaries and shareholders to operate our business. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions— Contractual Agreements with our Variable Interest Entities.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over our VIEs as direct ownership. If we had direct ownership of these entities, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of directors, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, we rely on the performance by these entities and their shareholders of their contractual obligations to exercise control over our VIEs. Therefore, our contractual arrangements with our VIEs may not be as effective in ensuring our control over their operations as direct ownership would be. The shareholders of our VIEs may breach, or cause our VIEs to breach, or refuse to renew, the existing contractual arrangements we have with them and our VIEs. Any failure by our VIEs or their shareholders to perform their obligations under our contractual arrangements with them would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The shareholders of our VIEs may breach, or cause our VIEs to breach, or refuse to renew, the existing contractual arrangements we have with them and our VIEs. If our VIEs or their shareholders fail to perform their obligations under the contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend resources to enforce our rights under the contracts. We may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief and claiming damages, which may not be effective. For example, if the shareholders of Autohome Information and Shengtuo Hongyuan were to refuse to transfer their equity interests in those companies to us or our designee when we exercise the call option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, if they transfer the equity interests to other persons against our interests, or if they were otherwise to act in bad faith toward us, then we may have to take legal actions to compel them to perform their contractual obligations. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal system in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. Under PRC law, rulings by arbitrators are final, parties cannot appeal the arbitration results in courts, and the prevailing parties may only enforce the arbitration awards in PRC courts through arbitration award recognition proceedings, which would incur additional expenses and delay. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our VIEs, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. 20 Table of Contents Contractual arrangements our subsidiary has entered into with our VIEs may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we or our VIEs owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our consolidated net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities within ten years after the taxable year when the transactions are conducted. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements among Autohome WFOE, Chezhiying WFOE, our VIEs and the shareholders of our VIEs do not represent arm’s-length prices and consequently adjust Autohome WFOE and Chezhiying WFOE’s or our VIEs’ income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by our VIEs, which could in turn increase their tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on Autohome WFOE, Chezhiying WFOE or our VIEs for any unpaid taxes. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if Autohome WFOE and Chezhiying WFOE or our VIEs’ tax liabilities increase or if they are subject to late payment fees or other penalties. The shareholders of our VIEs may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business. The shareholders of Guangzhou Advertising, Shanghai Advertising and Autohome Information are James Zhi Qin, our director and chief executive officer, Xiang Li, our director, and Zheng Fan, our vice president. They hold 8%, 68% and 24%, respectively, of the equity interests in Guangzhou Advertising, Shanghai Advertising and Autohome Information. Each of these three individuals is also a beneficial owner of our company and a PRC citizen. The shareholders of Shengtuo Hongyuan are James Zhi Qin and Zheng Fan, each holding 50% of the equity interests in Shengtuo Hongyuan. Conflicts of interest may arise between their roles as directors, officers and/or beneficial owners of our holding company and as shareholders of our VIEs. In addition, the controlling shareholders of our company are substantially different from that of the VIEs, which may heighten any conflicts of interest that could arise between the two groups of shareholders. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these equity holders will act in the best interests of our company or such conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Currently, we do not have any arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest between these equity holders and our company. We rely on these individuals to comply with the laws of China, which protect contracts, provide that directors and executive officers owe a duty of loyalty and a duty of diligence to our company and require them to avoid conflicts of interest and not to take advantage of their positions for personal gain. We also rely on the laws of the Cayman Islands, which provide that directors owe a duty of care and a duty of loyalty to our company. However, the legal frameworks of China and the Cayman Islands do not provide guidance on resolving conflicts in the event of a conflict with another corporate governance regime. If we cannot resolve any conflict of interest or dispute between us and the shareholders of our VIEs, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and subject us to substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. We may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity to be paid by our wholly owned PRC subsidiaries for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders and service any debt we may incur. If our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Under PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries, as wholly foreign-owned enterprises in the PRC, may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, wholly foreign-owned enterprises are required to set aside at least 10% of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, each year to fund certain statutory reserve funds, until the aggregate amount of such funds reach 50% of their registered capital. These statutory reserve funds are not distributable as cash dividends. 21 Table of Contents Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. PRC regulation of loans to, and direct investment in, PRC entities by offshore holding companies and governmental control of currency conversion may restrict or prevent us from using the proceeds of our equity offerings to make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs or to make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries, which may materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. We are an offshore holding company conducting our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs. We may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries, which are treated as foreign-invested enterprises under PRC law, are subject to PRC regulations and foreign exchange loan registrations. For example, loans by us to Autohome WFOE or Chezhiying WFOE to finance its activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the local counterpart of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. We may also decide to finance Autohome WFOE and Chezhiying WFOE by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. Due to the restrictions imposed on loans in foreign currencies extended to any PRC domestic companies, we are not likely to make such loans to our VIEs, which are PRC domestic companies. Further, we are not likely to finance the activities of our VIEs by means of capital contributions due to regulatory restrictions relating to foreign investment in PRC domestic enterprises engaged in internet content services and online advertising businesses. SAFE promulgated a circular on November 19, 2010, or Circular No. 59, which tightens the examination on the authenticity of settlement of net proceeds from an offering and requires that the settlement of net proceeds shall be in accordance with the description in its prospectus. On March 30, 2015, the SAFE issued the Circular on Reform of the Administrative Rules of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Exchange Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 19, which became effective on June 1, 2015. Pursuant to SAFE Circular 19, foreign-invested enterprises may either continue to follow the current payment-based foreign currency settlement system or choose to follow the “conversion-at-will” system for foreign currency settlement. Where a foreign-invested enterprise follows the conversion-at-will system for foreign currency settlement, it may convert part or all of the amount of the foreign currency in its capital account into Renminbi at any time. The converted Renminbi will be kept in a designated account labeled as settled but pending payment, and if the foreign-invested enterprise needs to make payment from such designated account, it still needs to go through the review process with its bank and provide necessary supporting documents. SAFE Circular 19, therefore, has substantially lifted the restrictions on the usage by a foreign-invested enterprise of its Renminbi registered capital converted from foreign currencies. According to SAFE Circular 19, such Renminbi capital may be used at the discretion of the foreign-invested enterprise and the SAFE will eliminate the prior approval requirement and only examine the authenticity of the declared usage afterwards. Nevertheless, foreign-invested enterprises like our PRC subsidiaries are still not allowed to extend intercompany loans to our VIEs. In addition, as SAFE Circular 19 was promulgated recently, there remain substantial uncertainties with respect to the interpretation and implementation of this circular by relevant authorities. In light of the various requirements imposed by PRC regulations on loans to and direct investment in PRC entities by offshore holding companies we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries or VIEs or with respect to future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds we received from our equity offerings and to capitalize or otherwise fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. 22 Table of Contents If our PRC subsidiaries or VIEs become the subject of a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding, we may lose the ability to use and enjoy substantially all of our assets, which could reduce the size of our operations and materially and adversely affect our business, our ability to generate revenues and the market price of our ADSs. As part of the contractual arrangements with our VIEs and their shareholders, Autohome Information and Shengtuo Hongyuan hold operating permits and licenses and substantially all of the assets that are important to the operation of our business. We expect to continue to be dependent on our VIEs to operate a significant portion of our business in China. If our VIEs go bankrupt and all or part of their assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our VIEs undergo a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, their equity holders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which would materially and adversely affect our business, our ability to generate revenues and the market price of our ADSs. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Changes in China’s economic, political or social conditions or government policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. The majority of our assets and operations are located in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be influenced to a significant degree by political, economic and social conditions in China generally and by continued economic growth in China as a whole. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the Chinese government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy, and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth over the past decades, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy, and the rate of growth has been slowing. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. In addition, in the past the Chinese government has implemented certain measures, including interest rate increases, to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China, which may adversely affect our business and operating results. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past several decades has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system, and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. Since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules, some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all, which may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. In addition, any administrative and court proceedings in China may be protracted, resulting in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 23 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by the complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of internet business and companies. The PRC government extensively regulates the internet industry, including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in the internet industry. These internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be violations of applicable laws and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to the PRC government regulation of the internet industry include, but are not limited to, the following: • We only have contractual control over our websites. We do not own the websites due to the restriction on foreign investment in businesses providing value-added telecommunication services in China, which includes internet content provision services. • There are uncertainties relating to the regulation of the internet industry in China, including evolving licensing requirements. This means that permits, licenses or operations at some of our companies may be subject to challenge, or we may fail to obtain permits or licenses that applicable regulators may deem necessary for our operations, or we may not be able to obtain or renew permits or licenses. For example, both Autohome Information and Shengtuo Hongyuan may be required to obtain additional licenses, including internet publishing licenses and internet news information service licenses, if the release of articles and information or the broadcast of videos on the websites autohome.com.cn and che168.com is deemed by the PRC regulatory authorities as being the provision of internet publishing service, internet news information service, or internet culture operating service. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation—Regulations on Online Cultural Services,” “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation—Regulations on Internet Publishing” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation—Regulations on Internet News Information Service” for additional details. • The evolving PRC regulatory system for the internet industry may lead to the establishment of new regulatory agencies. For example, the Cyberspace Administration of China was established in 2014, as the central Internet censorship, oversight and control agency for the PRC. • New laws and regulations may be promulgated to regulate internet activities, including online advertising businesses. As such, additional licenses may be required for our operations. If our operations do not comply with these new regulations at the time they become effective, or if we fail to obtain any licenses required under these new laws and regulations, we could be subject to penalties. On July 13, 2006, the MIIT, the predecessor of which was the Ministry of Information Industry, issued the Notice of the Ministry of Information Industry on Intensifying the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunications Services. This notice prohibits domestic telecommunication service providers from leasing, transferring or selling telecommunications business operating licenses to any foreign investor in any form, or providing any resources, sites or facilities to any foreign investor for their illegal operation of a telecommunications business in China. According to this notice, either the holder of a value-added telecommunication services operation permit or its shareholders must directly own the domain names and trademarks used by such license holders in their provision of value-added telecommunication services. The notice also requires each license holder to have the necessary facilities, including servers, for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. Currently, Autohome Information and Shengtuo Hongyuan, two of our VIEs, own the related domain names and trademarks and hold the internet content provider licenses, or ICP licenses, necessary to conduct our operations for websites in China. The interpretation and application of existing PRC laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies relating to the internet industry have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, internet businesses in China, including our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing licenses or obtain any new licenses if required by any new laws or regulations. There are also risks that we may be found to violate existing or future laws and regulations given the uncertainty and complexity of China’s regulation of the internet industry. If we or our VIEs fail to obtain or maintain any of the required assets, licenses or approvals, our continued business operations in the internet industry may subject us to various penalties, including the confiscation of illegal net revenues, fines and the discontinuation or restriction of our operations, any of which would materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents There are substantial uncertainties with respect to the enactment, final content, interpretation and implementation of the Draft Cyber Security Law and how it may impact our business operations. On July 1, 2015, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China issued the National Security Law, which came into effect on the same day. The National Security Law provides that the state shall safeguard sovereignty, security and development interests of cyberspace in the state, and the state shall establish a national security review and supervision system to review including foreign investment, key technologies, internet and information technology products and services and other important activities that are likely to impact the national security of China. On July 6, 2015, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China released the Draft Cyber Security Law to solicit public comments. Once adopted, this will be the first Chinese law that focuses exclusively on cyber security. The Draft Cyber Security Law sets high requirements for the operational security of facilities deemed to be part of PRC’s “key information infrastructure facilities,” and includes the integration of national security examinations under certain circumstances. Among which, “key information infrastructure facilities” includes networks and systems owned or managed by network service providers with a significant number of users. The Draft Cyber Security Law provides that key information infrastructure facilities operators must set up specialized internal security management divisions and assign appropriate person(s) responsible for security management. Additionally, these operators must conduct background checks on the person(s) responsible for security management and on personnel in critical positions. It further provides that when operators of key information infrastructure facilities purchase network products or services that may affect or involve national security, the operator must pass a security examination jointly arranged by the national network and information authority and the relevant government departments and the national security examination process under the National Security Law will be triggered. The operators of key information infrastructure facilities must store important data collected and generated, including citizens’ personal information, exclusively within the territory of the People’s Republic of China. The Draft Cyber Security Law also sets increasingly more stringent requirements for network operators. The Draft Cyber Security Law establishes censorship duties for network operators, including digital information distribution service providers and application software download service providers. When these operators notice a prohibited publication, or the transmission of illicit information, they must promptly stop transmitting the information and take measures necessary to prevent the spread of that information. Operators must maintain a record of these incidents when they occur and report them to the competent authorities. The Draft Cyber Security Law provides relevant subjects with solid legal authorities who are empowered to take measures to cut off any transmission(s) of prohibited information on communication networks. Upon finding prohibited information, those authorities will require that the network operators stop the transmission and take the necessary measures to remove any prohibited content. Where the above prohibited information comes from outside the territory of China, these authorities may request that all related institutions to take necessary measures to stop the flow of prohibited information. There are substantial uncertainties with respect to the enactment timetable, final content, interpretation and implementation of the Draft Cyber Security Law. If enacted as proposed, the Draft Cyber Security Law could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. Fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Substantially all of our revenues and costs are denominated in RMB. The conversion of RMB into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. In July 2005, the PRC government changed its decades-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar, and the RMB appreciated more than 20% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Since June 2010, the RMB has fluctuated against the U.S. dollar, at times significantly and unpredictably. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar in the future. 25 Table of Contents To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for capital expenditures and working capital and other business purposes, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs, strategic acquisitions or investments or other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. In addition, a significant depreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar may significantly reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings, which in turn could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. Very limited hedging options are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to adequately hedge our exposure or to hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively and affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior SAFE approval by complying with certain procedural requirements. Therefore, Autohome WFOE and Chezhiying WFOE are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to us without prior approval from SAFE. However, approval from or registration with appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our foreign currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Certain regulations in the PRC may make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions. Among other things, certain regulations and rules concerning mergers and acquisitions established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex. For example, these regulations require that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise or a foreign company with substantial PRC operations, if certain thresholds under the Provisions on Thresholds for Prior Notification of Concentrations of Undertakings, issued by the State Council on August 3, 2008, are triggered. According to the Implementing Rules Concerning Security Review on Mergers and Acquisitions by Foreign Investors of Domestic Enterprises issued by the Ministry of Commerce in August 2011, mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors involved in an industry related to national security are subject to strict review by the Ministry of Commerce. These rules also prohibit any transactions attempting to bypass such security review, including by controlling entities through contractual arrangements. We believe that our business is not in an industry related to national security. However, we cannot preclude the possibility that the Ministry of Commerce or other government agencies may publish interpretations contrary to our understanding or broaden the scope of such security review in the future. Although we have no current plans to make any acquisitions, we may elect to grow our business in the future in part by directly acquiring complementary businesses in China. Complying with the requirements of these regulations to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions. 26 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore holding companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to liability or penalties, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. On July 4, 2014, SAFE promulgated the Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control of Domestic Residents’ Overseas Investment and Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular No. 37, which replaced the former Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for PRC Residents to Engage in Financing and Inbound Investment via Overseas Special Purpose Vehicles (generally known as SAFE Circular No. 75) promulgated by SAFE on October 21, 2005. SAFE Circular No. 37 requires PRC residents to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct establishment or indirect control of an offshore entity, for the purpose of overseas investment and financing, with such PRC residents’ legally owned assets or equity interests in domestic enterprises or offshore assets or interests, which is referred to in SAFE Circular No. 37 as a “special purpose vehicle.” SAFE Circular No. 37 further requires amendment to the registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to the special purpose vehicle, such as an increase or decrease of capital contributed by PRC residents share transfer or exchange, merger, division or other material events. In the event that a PRC resident holding interests in a special purpose vehicle fails to complete the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that special purpose vehicle may be prohibited from making profit distributions to the offshore parent and from carrying out subsequent cross-border foreign exchange activities and the special purpose vehicle may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for evasion of foreign exchange controls. Currently, all of our shareholders who are PRC residents have registered with the competent local branch of SAFE with respect to their investments in our company as required by SAFE Circular No. 75 and will update their registration filings with SAFE under SAFE Circular No. 37 when there are any changes that should be registered under SAFE Circular No. 37. However, we may not at all times be fully aware or informed of the identities of all our shareholders or beneficial owners that are required to make such registrations, and if or when we have such shareholders or beneficial owners, we may not always be able to compel them to comply with SAFE Circular No. 37 requirements. As a result, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents will at all times comply with, or in the future make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by, SAFE Circular No. 37 or other related regulations. The failure or inability of such individuals to comply with the registration procedures set forth in these regulations may subject us to fines or legal sanctions, restrictions on our cross-border investment activities or our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to, or obtain foreign-exchange-dominated loans from, our company, or prevent us from making distributions or paying dividends. As a result, our business operations and our ability to make distributions to you could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, as these foreign exchange regulations are still relatively new and their interpretation and implementation has been constantly evolving, it is unclear how these regulations, and any future regulation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the foreign exchange regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. 27 Table of Contents Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee share ownership plans or share option plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, promulgated the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which sets forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by individuals (both PRC and non-PRC citizens) under either the current account or the capital account. In January 2007, SAFE issued relevant implementing rules that specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock incentive plans or share option plans of an overseas publicly listed company. In February 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notice on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Matters for Domestic Individuals Participating in the Stock Incentive Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Notice. The Stock Option Notice supersedes the requirements and procedures for the registration of PRC resident individuals’ participation in stock incentive plans set forth by certain rules promulgated by SAFE in March 2007. Under these measures, PRC resident individuals who participate in an employee stock incentive plan or a share option plan in an overseas publicly listed company are required to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. A PRC domestic qualified agent appointed through the PRC subsidiaries of such overseas listed company must file applications on behalf of such PRC resident individuals with SAFE or its local counterpart to obtain approval for an annual allowance with respect to the foreign exchange in connection with stock holding or share option exercises. With the approval from SAFE or its local counterpart, the PRC domestic qualified agent must open a special foreign exchange account at a PRC domestic bank to hold the funds required in connection with the stock purchase or option exercise, payment received upon sales of shares, dividends issued on the stock and any other income or expenditures approved by SAFE or its local counterpart. We and our PRC resident employees who participate in our share incentive plans are subject to these regulations as we are an overseas listed company. We have made registration with the local counterparts of SAFE for our PRC resident employees who participate in our share incentive plans as required under the Stock Option notice and relevant rules. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation—Regulations on Employee Stock Options Plans.” We face uncertainties with respect to indirect transfers of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises by their non-PRC holding companies. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or SAT Circular 698, issued by the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, on December 10, 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008, where a non-resident enterprise transfers the equity interests of a PRC resident enterprise indirectly via disposing of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that: (a) has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or (b) does not tax the foreign income of its residents, the non-resident enterprise, being the transferor, shall report to the relevant tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise this Indirect Transfer. Using a “substance over form” principle, the PRC tax authority may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if it lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of reducing, avoiding or deferring PRC tax. As a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. SAT Circular 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the relevant tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the transaction. On February 3, 2015, the SAT issued SAT Notice 7 to supersede the existing tax rules in relation to the Indirect Transfer, while the other provisions of SAT Circular 698 remain in force. SAT Notice 7 introduces a more sophisticated anti-avoidance guidance. SAT Notice 7 extends its tax jurisdiction to capture not only Indirect Transfer as set forth under SAT Circular 698 but also transactions involving transfer of movable and immovable property in China of a foreign company through the offshore transfer of a foreign intermediate holding company. According to SAT Notice 7, if a non-resident enterprise indirectly transfers PRC taxable properties through an arrangement without reasonable commercial purpose but to avoid PRC Corporate Income Tax, the Indirect Transfer shall be re-characterized and treated as a direct transfer of PRC taxable properties. SAT Notice 7 also interprets the term “transfer of the equity interest in a foreign intermediate holding company” broadly. In addition, SAT Notice 7 provides clearer criteria than Circular 698 on how to assess reasonable commercial purposes and introduces safe harbor scenarios applicable to the public trading of shares in a listed company holding taxable PRC assets and indirect transfers resulting from a corporate restructuring. 28 Table of Contents Further, SAT Notice 7 replaces the compulsory reporting requirement in SAT Circular 698 with a voluntary reporting regime and the criteria set forth in Circular 698 for indirect transfer reporting have been abolished. Both the foreign transferor and the transferee, and the PRC tax resident enterprise whose equity interests being transferred may voluntarily report the transfer by submitting the documents required in SAT Notice 7. In addition to the voluntary reporting, SAT Notice 7 empowers the Chinese tax authorities to require various documents from the parties involved. Although SAT Notice 7 provides clarities in many important areas such as reasonable commercial purpose and reporting requirements, it brings challenges to both the foreign transferor and transferee of the Indirect Transfer as they are required to make a self-assessment on whether the transaction should be subject to PRC tax and to file or withhold the PRC tax accordingly. It also introduces the interest regime by providing that where a transferor fails to file and pay tax on time, and where a withholding agent fails to withhold the tax, interest will be charged on a daily basis. If the transferor has provided the required documents and information or has filed and paid the tax within 30 days from the date that the share transfer contract or agreement is signed, interest shall be calculated based on the benchmark interest rate; otherwise, the benchmark interest rate plus 5% will apply. SAT Notice 7 became effective on February 3, 2015, but it also applies to Indirect Transfers which occurred before its issuance but have not received assessments from the tax authorities. SAT Circular 698 and SAT Notice 7 may be determined by the tax authorities to be applicable to our corporate restructuring where non-resident investors were involved, if any of such transactions were determined by the tax authorities to lack reasonable commercial purpose. As a result, we and our non-resident investors in such transactions may become at risk of being taxed under SAT Circular 698 and SAT Notice 7 and we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with SAT Circular 698 and SAT Notice 7 or to establish that we should not be taxed under the general anti-avoidance rule of the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or such non-resident investors’ investments in us. There are still uncertainties as to the interpretation and implementation of SAT Notice 7. The PRC tax authorities have the discretion under SAT Circular 698 and SAT Notice 7 to make adjustments to the taxable capital gains based on the difference between the fair value of the equity interests transferred and the cost of investment. We may pursue acquisitions in the future that may involve complex corporate structures. If we are considered a non-resident enterprise under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and if the PRC tax authorities make adjustments to the taxable income of these transactions under Circular 698 and SAT Notice 7, our income tax expenses associated with such potential acquisitions will be increased, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments or imposition of any additional taxes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. China passed a new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The Enterprise Income Tax Law (a) reduces the statutory rate of the enterprise income tax from 33% to 25%, (b) permits companies established before March 16, 2007 to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, adjusted by certain transitional phase-out rules promulgated by the State Council on December 26, 2007, and (c) introduces new tax incentives, subject to various qualification criteria. The Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules permit certain “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the state” which hold independent ownership of core intellectual property to enjoy a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15% subject to certain qualification criteria. Autohome WFOE was recognized jointly by the Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission and other authorities as a “high and new technology enterprise,” or HNTE, on September 17, 2010 and therefore was eligible for the preferential 15% enterprise income tax rate from 2010 to 2012 upon its filing with the relevant tax authority. The qualification as an HNTE is subject to annual evaluation and a three-year review by the relevant authorities in China. We have obtained renewal of the HNTE qualification through 2015. Beijing Autohome Technologies Co., Ltd., or Beijing Autohome Technologies, was recognized as an HNTE in July 2015 and therefore was eligible for the preferential 15% enterprise income tax rate from 2015 to 2017 upon their filing with the relevant tax authority. Beijing Prbrownies Software Co., Ltd., or Beijing Prbrownies, was recognized as an HNTE on February 29, 2016, qualifying it for the preferential 15% enterprise income tax rate from 2015 to 2017 upon its filing with the relevant tax authority. However, should we lose this qualification for any reason, Autohome WFOE, Beijing Autohome Technologies and Beijing Prbrownies will no longer enjoy the 15% preferential tax rate, and the applicable enterprise income tax rate may increase to up to 25%. 29 Table of Contents Our global income and the dividends that we may receive from our PRC subsidiaries, dividends distributed to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders, and gains recognized by such shareholders or ADS holders, may be subject to PRC taxes under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its global income. The implementation rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” The SAT issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or SAT Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. SAT Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore-incorporated enterprise is located in China. Although SAT Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises, not those controlled by PRC individuals, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 may reflect the SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or individuals. Although we do not believe that our legal entities organized outside of the PRC constitute PRC resident enterprises, it is possible that the PRC tax authorities could reach a different conclusion. In such case, we may be considered a PRC resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our global income. If we are considered a PRC resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiaries, a 25% enterprise income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Pursuant to the Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, dividends generated after January 1, 2008 and payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors, which are non-PRC tax resident enterprises without an establishment in China, or whose income has no connection with their institutions and establishments inside China, are subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and we conduct our business through Autohome WFOE and Chezhiying WFOE. Autohome WFOE is 100% owned by Cheerbright, our wholly owned subsidiary located in the British Virgin Islands. The British Virgin Islands currently does not have any tax treaty with China with respect to withholding tax. As long as Cheerbright is considered a non-PRC resident enterprise and holds at least 25% of the equity interest of Autohome WFOE, dividends that it receives from Autohome WFOE may be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%. Chezhiying WFOE is 100% owned by Autohome Link Hong Kong Limited, our wholly owned subsidiary located in Hong Kong. Under the Arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion, effective on January 1, 2007, as long as Autohome Link Hong Kong Limited is considered a non-PRC resident enterprise and holds at least 25% of the equity interest of its PRC subsidiaries, dividends that it receives from its PRC subsidiaries may be subject to withholding tax at a preferential rate of 5%, if it is the beneficial owner of the dividends, upon receiving the approval from the local tax authority. In August 2015, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Administrative Measures for Non-Resident Taxpayers to Enjoy Treatments under Tax Treaties, or SAT Circular 60, which became effective on November 1, 2015. SAT Circular 60 provides that non-resident enterprises are not required to obtain pre-approval from the relevant tax authority in order to enjoy the reduced withholding tax rate. Instead, non-resident enterprises and their withholding agents may, by self-assessment and upon their confirmation that the prescribed criteria to enjoy the tax treaty benefits are met, directly apply the reduced withholding tax rate, and file necessary forms and supporting documents when performing tax filings, which will be subject to post-filing examinations by the relevant tax authorities. We have migrated our advertising business from our VIEs to the subsidiaries of Autohome Media. Autohome Media is 100% owned by Autohome HK, our wholly owned subsidiary located in Hong Kong. Under the Arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion, effective on January 1, 2007, as long as Autohome HK is considered a non-PRC resident enterprise and holds at least 25% of the equity interest of its PRC subsidiaries, dividends that it receives from its PRC subsidiaries may be subject to withholding tax at a preferential rate of 5%, if it is the beneficial owner of the dividends, upon receiving the approval from the local tax authority. 30 Table of Contents As uncertainties remain regarding the interpretation and implementation of the Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, we cannot assure you that if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders would not be subject to any PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. Similarly, any gain recognized by such non-PRC shareholders or ADS holders on the sale of shares or ADSs, as applicable, may also be subject to PRC withholding tax. If we are required under the Enterprise Income Tax Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC enterprise shareholders and ADS holders, or on gains recognized by such non-PRC shareholders or ADS holders, such investors’ investment in our Class A ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. The enforcement of the PRC Labor Contract Law and other labor-related regulations in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our results of operations. The PRC Labor Contract Law became effective and was implemented on January 1, 2008 as amended on December 28, 2012 and effective as of July 1, 2013. It has reinforced the protection of employees who, under the PRC Labor Contract Law, have the right, among others, to have written labor contracts, to enter into labor contracts with no fixed terms under certain circumstances, to receive overtime wages and to terminate or alter terms in labor contracts. According to the PRC Social Insurance Law, which became effective on July 1, 2011, and the Administrative Regulations on the Housing Funds, employees are required to participate in pension insurance, work-related injury insurance, medical insurance, unemployment insurance, maternity insurance and housing funds, and the employers must pay all or a portion of the social insurance premiums and housing funds for such employees. As a result of these laws and regulations designed to enhance labor protection, we expect our labor costs will increase. In addition, as the interpretation and implementation of these new laws and regulations are still evolving, our employment practice may not at all times be deemed in compliance with the new laws and regulations. If we are subject to severe penalties or incur significant liabilities in connection with labor disputes or investigations, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board is not permitted to inspect independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, including our auditor, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our independent registered public accounting firm is located in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without receiving the required approval from the PRC authorities, our independent registered public accounting firm, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. Since PCAOB cannot conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China without receiving the required approval from the PRC authorities, it is more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. Proceedings instituted by the SEC against certain PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to be not in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC brought administrative proceedings against five accounting firms in China, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that they had refused to produce audit work papers and other documents related to certain other China-based companies under investigation by the SEC. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, censuring these accounting firms and suspending four of these firms from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The decision is neither final nor legally effective unless and until reviewed and approved by the SEC. On February 12, 2014, four of these PRC-based accounting firms appealed to the SEC against this decision. In February 2015, each of the four PRC-based accounting firms agreed to a censure and to pay a fine to the SEC to settle the dispute and avoid suspension of their ability to practice before the SEC. The firms’ ability to continue to serve all their respective clients is not affected by the settlement. The settlement requires the firms to follow detailed procedures to seek to provide the SEC with access to Chinese firms’ audit documents via the CSRC. If the firms do not follow these procedures, the SEC could impose penalties such as suspensions, or it could restart the administrative proceedings. The settlement did not require the firms to admit to any violation of law and preserves the firms’ legal defenses in the event the administrative proceeding is restarted. 31 Table of Contents In the event that the SEC restarts the administrative proceedings, depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding China-based, United States-listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. If our independent registered public accounting firm was denied, even temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined not to be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the delay or abandonment of this offering, delisting of our ordinary shares from the NYSE or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. Risks Related to our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has fluctuated and may be volatile. The daily closing trading prices for our ADSs ranged from US$28.42 to US$55.02 in 2015. The trading price for our ADSs may continue to fluctuate in response to factors including, without limitation, the following: • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our advertisers or our competitors; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the quality of our services or those of our competitors; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies that provide online automotive advertising services; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and changes or revisions to our expected results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the online automotive advertising industry; • conditions in the online retail industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of new solutions, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions to or departures of our senior management; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding Class A ordinary shares or ADSs; • sales or perceived potential sales of additional Class A ordinary shares or ADSs; and • pending or potential litigation or administrative investigation. 32 Table of Contents In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of any particular company. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the market price for our ADSs and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ADSs will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If we do not establish and maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our ADSs or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the market price for our ADSs would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price or trading volume for our ADSs to decline. Because we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, you must rely on price appreciation of our ADSs for return on your investment. We currently intend to retain most, if not all, of our available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not rely on an investment in our ADSs as a source of any future dividend income. Subject to certain exceptions, our board of directors has complete discretion as to whether to distribute dividends. Even if our board of directors decides to declare and pay dividends, the timing, amount and form of future dividends, if any, will depend on, among other things, our future results of operations and cash flow, our capital requirements and surplus, the amount of distributions, if any, received by us from our subsidiaries, our financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Accordingly, the return on your investment in our ADSs will likely depend entirely upon any future price appreciation of our ADSs. There is no guarantee that our ADSs will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased the ADSs. You may not realize a return on your investment in our ADSs and you may even lose your entire investment in our ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived potential sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. All ADSs sold in our equity offerings will be freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act. In addition, certain holders of our ordinary shares have the right to cause us to register under the Securities Act the sale of their shares. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in ADSs representing these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act. Sales of these registered shares, in the form of ADSs, in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. In addition, if we pay for our future acquisitions in whole or in part with additionally issued ordinary shares, your ownership interests in our company would be diluted and this, in turn, could have a material and adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. Our dual-class share structure will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A and Class B ordinary shares have the same rights, including dividend rights, except for conversion and voting rights. Each Class B ordinary share may be converted into one Class A ordinary share by its holder at any time, while Class A ordinary shares cannot be converted into Class B ordinary shares under any circumstances. Each Class A ordinary share is entitled to one vote. When the total number of ordinary shares held by Telstra Holdings Pty Limited and/or its affiliates, or the Telstra Shareholder, constitutes no less than 51% of all of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares, each Class B ordinary share is entitled to one vote; when the total number of ordinary shares held by the Telstra Shareholder, drops below 51% but is no less than 39.3% of all of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares, each Class B ordinary share will carry such number of votes that would result in the total number of ordinary shares held by the Telstra Shareholder carrying, in the aggregate, 51% of the voting rights represented by all of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares; when the total number of ordinary shares held by the Telstra Shareholder drops below 39.3% of all of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares, all Class B ordinary shares will be automatically converted into the same number of Class A ordinary shares. As of February 29, 2016, Telstra beneficially owned 61,824,328 Class B ordinary shares, representing 54.6% of all of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares and 54.6% of our aggregate voting rights. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. 33 Table of Contents You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our Class A ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the Class A ordinary shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the Class A ordinary shares represented by the ADSs. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Pursuant to our fourth amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, we may convene a shareholders’ meeting upon ten calendar days’ notice. If we give timely notice to the depositary under the terms of the deposit agreement (30 business days’ notice), the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote the Class A ordinary shares underlying your ADSs, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be nothing you can do if the Class A ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, although you may directly exercise your right to vote by withdrawing the Class A ordinary shares underlying your ADSs, you may not receive sufficient advance notice of an upcoming shareholders’ meeting to withdraw the Class A ordinary shares underlying your ADSs to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings, and you may not receive cash dividends if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register both the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective and we may not be able to establish a necessary exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on Class A ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of Class A ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In those cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distribution we make on our Class A ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. 34 Table of Contents You may be subject to limitations on the transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason in accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs. Most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of the assets of such directors and officers are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, and by the Companies Law and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against us and our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which provides persuasive, but not binding, authority. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in U.S. federal courts. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against us, our management, our directors or our major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Our memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs. Our fourth amended and restated memorandum and articles of association contain certain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company, including a provision that grants authority to our board of directors to establish from time to time one or more series of preferred shares without action by our shareholders and to determine, with respect to any series of preferred shares, the terms and rights of that series. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially adversely affected. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. 35 Table of Contents We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act, and as such we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. domestic public companies. Because we qualify as a foreign private issuer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, we are exempt from certain provisions of the securities rules and regulations in the United States that are applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents, or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time; and • the selective disclosure rules by issuers of material nonpublic information under Regulation FD. We are required to file an annual report on Form 20-F within four months of the end of each fiscal year. We intend to publish our results on a quarterly basis as press releases, distributed pursuant to the rules and regulations of the NYSE. Press releases relating to financial results and material events will also be furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. However, the information we are required to file with or furnish to the SEC will be less extensive and less frequent compared to that required to be filed with the SEC by U.S. domestic issuers. As a result, you may not be afforded the same protections or information, which would be made available to you, were you investing in a United States domestic issuer. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, which could subject United States investors in the ADSs or Class A ordinary shares to significant adverse tax consequences. Under United States federal income tax law, we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of our assets (based on the average quarterly value of our assets during the taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income (the “asset test”). Although the law in this regard is not entirely clear, we treat our VIEs as being owned by us for United States federal income tax purposes because we control their management decisions and are entitled to substantially all of the economic benefits associated with such entities, and, as a result, we consolidate their results of operations in our consolidated U.S. GAAP financial statements. Assuming we are the owner of our VIEs for U.S. federal income tax purposes and based on our current income and assets, including goodwill and unbooked intangibles, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2015 and do not anticipate becoming a PFIC in future taxable years. While we do not believe that we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2015 and do not anticipate becoming a PFIC in the foreseeable future, no assurance can be given in this regard because the determination of whether we will be or become a PFIC is a fact-intensive inquiry made on an annual basis that depends, in part, on the composition of our income and assets. Fluctuations in the market price of our ADSs may cause us to become a PFIC for the current or subsequent taxable years because the value of assets for the purpose of the asset test may be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs from time to time (which may be volatile). The composition of our income and assets may also be affected by how, and how quickly, we use our liquid assets. Under circumstances where our revenue from activities that produce passive income significantly increase relative to our revenue from activities that produce non-passive income, or where we determine not to deploy significant amounts of cash for active purposes, our risk of becoming classified as a PFIC may substantially increase. In addition, because there are uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules, it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service may challenge our classification of certain income and assets as non-passive or our valuation of our tangible and intangible assets, each of which may result in our becoming a PFIC for the current or subsequent taxable years. 36 Table of Contents If we were to be or become a PFIC, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—General”) may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gains recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or Class A ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or Class A ordinary shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under United States federal income tax rules. Further, if we were a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder held our ADSs or Class A ordinary shares, we generally would continue to be treated as a PFIC as to such U.S. Holder for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder held our ADSs or Class A ordinary shares. Alternatively, U.S. Holders of PFIC shares can sometimes avoid the rules described above by making certain elections, including a “mark-to-market” election or electing to treat a PFIC as a “qualified electing fund.” However, U.S. Holders will not be able to make an election to treat us as a “qualified electing fund” because, even if we were to be or become a PFIC, we do not intend to comply with the requirements necessary to permit U.S. Holders to make such election. Each U.S. Holder is urged to consult its tax advisor concerning the United States federal income tax consequences of owning and disposing of ADSs or Class A ordinary shares if we are or become a PFIC. For more information, see “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. We are a public company and expect to incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including Section 404 therein relating to internal control over financial reporting, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NYSE, have detailed requirements concerning corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these rules and regulations applicable to public companies to increase our accounting, legal and financial compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. Our management is required to devote substantial time and attention to our public company reporting obligations and other compliance matters. We evaluate and monitor developments with respect to these rules and regulations, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Our reporting and other compliance obligations as a public company may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. In the past, shareholders of a public company often brought securities class action suits against the company following periods of instability in the market price of that company’s securities. If we were involved in a class action suit, it could divert a significant amount of our management’s attention and other resources from our business and operations, which could harm our results of operations and require us to incur significant expenses to defend the suit. Any such class action suit, whether or not successful, could harm our reputation and restrict our ability to raise capital in the future. In addition, if a claim is successfully made against us, we may be required to pay significant damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 