D. RISK FACTORS An investment in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this Annual Report before making an investment in our ordinary shares. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if any of these risks occurs, and as a result, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See “Forward-looking statements”. Our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors. Risks relating to our business and our industry We must successfully adapt our business in response to the fast changing technological environment facing our consumers and small and medium-sized businesses, including the increasing use of mobile devices and the introduction of new systems, networks and standards, or our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. The technology environment has changed and continues to change rapidly as the use of mobile devices, including smartphones and tablets, increases significantly, as consumers increasingly engage with Internet based services such as social network applications and as an increasing percentage of the world’s population is connected to the Internet. In order to deliver high quality products, it is important that our products work well with a range of mobile devices, systems, networks, and standards that we do not control. We may not be successful in developing relationships with key participants in the mobile industry or in developing products that operate effectively with these devices, systems, networks, or standards. 7 Table of Contents These technological changes may threaten our existing revenue streams, which are currently principally reliant on PC-based products and services to generate both subscription and platform-derived revenues. We have not currently achieved any material monetization from our mobile-based or integrated cross-platform products and services; our future success will be dependent on our ability to do so. Our failure to adapt to these changes and deliver new products and services meeting the consumers’ needs that can be successfully monetized would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business model is evolving and we may be unable to increase or monetize our active user base sufficiently to increase or maintain our profitability. Our business model has evolved in recent years toward seeking to increase and monetize our active user base through a variety of means rather than drawing revenue primarily from users purchasing subscriptions to our premium products and online services. To expand our user base, we have added and plan to continue to add new products and online services to our product portfolio, broadening our focus beyond security solutions and increasing our support for mobile devices, including smartphones and tablets. In line with our strategy, in 2014 we announced the launch of our multi-platform product AVG Zen and completed the acquisition of the mobile focused company Location Labs, which represent significant changes to our business model, particularly given Location Labs’s business model of distribution via Mobile Network Operators (MNOs), and for which our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability remains unproven. The evolution of our business model is ongoing and may depart further from the model we used for much of our operating history. We may be unsuccessful in executing our new business model of adding compelling new products and online services and monetizing all of our active user base. To date our primary means of monetizing our active user base indirectly has been our dynamic secure search solution provided pursuant to agreements with search providers such as Yahoo! and Google. These search agreements have provided us with a significant revenue stream in past years. This revenue stream was impacted by the Google guideline changes announced in February 2013 which subsequently led to our decision in November 2013 to exit in a controlled manner the third party search distribution business, in which we distributed our stand-alone secure search solution in connection with the download of other companies’ products. The guideline changes, primarily the requirement for a customer to opt in to accept our search settings, also impacted our organic user base and we expect that revenue stream to decline in 2015. In addition, there have been some significant additional guideline changes (e.g., the Chrome guidelines) that effectively decrease the use of search traffic providers such as AVG. Other search engines may make changes with a similar impact. If there are further guideline changes from any or all of our search providers which we are unable to mitigate, or if additional search providers decide to adopt an opt in policy, we may not be able to continue our recent growth and increase our revenue, margins and profitability. We continue to look for additional methods of monetizing users indirectly, such as mobile advertising, but these models remain unproven in terms of generating substantial revenues. If we cannot find additional methods of monetizing our active user base through products and online services that users find compelling or if our new methods of monetizing our active user base, attempts to expand that user base, or creation of new products and online services cannot be sustained, our revenue, margins and profitability could be adversely affected. In the event that we are successful in monetizing users through products and services outside of secure search, this may not be profitable. Furthermore, if we seek to focus advertising based on, or make other commercial use of, anonymized customer data, this could lead to further regulatory or reputational risks in relation to personal data protection and customer perception. 8 Table of Contents Failure to generate significant and profitable revenue from non-search related platform activities would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The acquisitions completed in 2014 may prove disruptive and could result in the combined business failing to meet our expectations. The process of integrating our operations and those of the companies acquired in 2014, especially Location Labs, may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention. Our future operations and cash flows will depend largely upon our ability to operate the combined company efficiently, achieve the strategic operating objectives for the combined business and realize significant cost savings and synergies. Our management team may encounter unforeseen difficulties in managing the integration. In order to successfully combine AVG and the companies acquired in 2014, especially Location Labs and operate the combined company, our management team must focus on realizing anticipated synergies and cost-savings on a timely basis while maintaining the efficiency of our operations. Any substantial diversion of management attention to difficulties in operating the combined business could affect our revenues and ability to achieve operational, financial and strategic objectives. We may not be able to integrate businesses we have acquired or may in the future acquire, and those acquisitions may fail to provide us with the benefits we anticipated. We have acquired and made investments in other companies and services to expand our technology capabilities, our product breadth and functionalities, our user base and our geographical presence, and we intend to continue to make acquisitions and investments in the future, which may be of a more significant magnitude than the ones we have undertaken historically. The integration of acquired businesses and their operations, technologies and products involves the incurrence of acquisition costs and may expose us to liabilities, including unanticipated liabilities and tax liabilities, operating difficulties and expenditures associated with the assimilation and retention of employees of the acquired business, acquisition related legal contingencies, risks related to maintaining procedures, controls and quality standards and other risks and difficulties. These difficulties may increase relative to the size of an acquisition. In particular, we may experience these challenges with Location Labs, our most significant acquisition undertaken to date. We may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits from any acquisition or investment and the consideration paid for an acquisition or investment may also affect our financial results. Such acquisitions and investments could divert management’s time and focus from operating our business and divert other resources needed in other parts of our business. The financing of acquisitions or investments in other companies may require us to use a substantial portion of our available cash, raise debt, which would increase our interest expense, or to issue shares or other rights to purchase shares, which may result in dilution to existing shareholders and decrease our earnings per share. Moreover, acquisitions may result in write-offs and restructuring charges as well as in creation of goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to regular impairment testing, which could result in future impairment charges. All of these factors could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We must maintain our relationships with our existing users and attract new users if we are to continue to expand and improve the quality of our user base, which we may be unable to do. A significant portion of our users cease using our products in any given period because the cost of switching to the products and online services of competitors on existing hardware, including mobile devices, is minimal and because competitors’ products are often preinstalled on new hardware purchased by our users, among other reasons. For example, in the security software market, new PCs are widely distributed with one of our competitors’ security products preinstalled. To continue to expand our user base, we must retain our existing users to the extent possible and continuously attract new users, both to replace the many users who exit our user base and to expand that base. Any failure to continue to expand our user base could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents In addition, our ability to monetize our active user base varies depending on many characteristics of those users, including level of engagement with our products and services, amount and nature of Internet and computing activities, geographic location and income level and the device which they use. If we are unable to retain and recruit users whose characteristics contribute to a user base with optimum potential for monetization, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer materially. For example the vast majority of our current income is derived from our PC user base and if we are unable to monetize our mobile user base successfully, our growth may be adversely impacted. The significant turnover in our user base also limits our ability to predict our revenue and cash flows for future periods, making it more difficult for us to manage our business. The financial performance of Location Labs is dependent on a limited number of contractual agreements with MNOs. Changes in Location Labs’ existing relationships with MNOs could materially impact the financial performance of Location Labs. The majority of revenue generated by Location Labs comes from relationships and agreements in place with four MNOs which typically have terms of up to three years. Our long-term expansion plans for our mobile products involve deepening the relationship with these MNOs by distributing additional products through them as well as expanding internationally by adding additional MNOs. Failure to renew or negotiate beneficial terms with these MNOs, or any dispute or early termination of these agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Failure to distribute additional products via our current MNOs or failure to sign additional MNOs may significantly impact our ability to deliver our growth plans. To date, there have been no material disputes under these contracts. Although we experienced significant growth in recent years, in 2014 we saw a contraction in revenue. We cannot guarantee a return to comparable revenue growth rates in the future. Our revenue has grown significantly in recent years, showing double-digit growth year over year since 2011 until 2013. In 2014 however we saw revenue contraction compared to 2013. This revenue contraction was due to the Google guideline changes of February 2013 and our related decision to initiate a controlled exit from third party search business, thus impacting our platform-derived revenue stream. As the exit had not been completed by December 2014, a further revenue contraction is expected in relation to our platform-derived revenue stream and there may be additional guideline or other changes in the future which could cause this revenue stream to contract further. At the same time, the consumer subscription revenue showed slower growth than in the recent past, due to a more difficult desktop market compared to the previous years. The desktop market may continue to worsen or fail to improve in continuing years. While we expect to grow new revenue streams following our pivot to mobile and cloud businesses, these may not offset the contraction of other revenue streams. As a result, we cannot provide assurance that we can continue to increase our revenue or to return to historical revenue growth rates in future periods. Our current systems, procedures and staffing may not be adequate to support our future operations and growth. We have recently experienced a period of significant organic and inorganic growth in terms of total user count. We plan to pursue a strategy of continued user growth, which has required and will continue to require substantial managerial and financial resources particularly as we seek to expand into the mobile market. Our current systems, procedures and staffing may not be adequate to support our future operations. To accommodate our recent and future growth, we must continue to expand our operational, engineering and financial systems and IT infrastructure, improve our accounting and other internal management procedures and systems and hire additional staff. In addition, our efforts to expand our business geographically include developing local language versions of our security software solutions, opening new offices and call centers, including centers to support our solutions in additional languages, hiring staff in new areas and adding additional functionality to our solutions. If we fail to manage our growth adequately, to adapt our operational, financial and management information 10 Table of Contents systems and IT infrastructure, or to motivate or manage our employees effectively, the quality of our products and the management of our operations and costs would suffer, which could adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, like many peer companies, we engage contractors as well as employees. There is some risk that relevant authorities, both in jurisdictions where we have well-established operations and those we have recently entered, could seek to reclassify our arrangements with certain contractors as employment relationships, with potentially adverse tax and regulatory consequences. In addition, we regularly evaluate and, where appropriate, implement changes to, our systems to facilitate future growth. Implementing any such changes to our systems may divert management attention, entail substantial costs and take significant time to complete. At the same time we are seeking to rationalize our financial operations and increase automation while reducing costs. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our business delivery, operations or reporting in line with the growth of the business, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to provide accurate data from which we derive our key metrics, or monitor business developments on a timely basis, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow the business. While historically we managed to sustain operating margins, we cannot guarantee the same for future performance. Although historically we were delivering operating income margins in the range of 20% to 30%, we cannot provide assurance that our operating margins will not decrease from this level. We are investing significantly in a number of areas including AVG Zen, mobile initiatives, our small to medium size business (SMB) segment and system enhancements as well as making additional acquisitions to accelerate our growth or market expansions. Any or all of these initiatives may fail to deliver as we intend and even if successful these initiatives could negatively impact margins in the short-term while these businesses attain scale or maturity. In particular, we anticipate that our SMB business will have relatively low margins in the medium-term while we establish our Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) business model. We operate in a dynamic and changing market and investors should not rely on our historical results as an indication of our future operating performance. If our revenue growth for any period falls short of our expectations, we may not be able to adjust our costs in a timely manner, which could reduce our profit margin in that period. Although we base our planned operating expenses in part on our expectations of future revenue, a substantial portion of our expenses is fixed in the short term and cannot be reduced quickly if our future revenue falls short of expectations. If there are further changes which alter our plans to monetize our active user base, our revenue may not meet our expectations. Accordingly, if the rate of growth of our revenue in any period is significantly less than we anticipated, because either our user base is smaller, our annual subscription rate is lower than expected or our efforts to monetize our active user base fall short, we may be unable to adjust our cost base proportionally on an accurate and timely basis, which would reduce our operating margin. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our brand, our business and operating results may be harmed. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand identity is critical to our business. The successful promotion of our brand will depend largely upon our marketing and public relations efforts, the quality of our Internet software solutions and our ability to differentiate ourselves from our competitors. The promotion of our brand may require us to make substantial expenditures, which will likely increase as our market becomes more competitive. As we expand into new markets, particularly the mobile market, product sectors within the PC market, such as PC optimization, and the SMB market with cloud-based products, our brand may not be as well recognized and additional sales and marketing expenditure may be required, thus negatively impacting our financial results. If we are not successful at maintaining and enhancing our brand, our ability to retain existing users, attract new users, attract and retain third-party distributors and resellers and hire and retain our employees could be adversely affected. In particular, we rely on our active users as primary drivers of our user-driven 11 Table of Contents marketing strategy and any negative change to the perception of our brand among our active users could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, independent industry analysts often provide reviews of our solutions, as well as those of our competitors. Perception of our products in the marketplace may be significantly influenced by these reviews. Our brand could be harmed if industry analysts provide negative reviews of our software solutions or our Company, even if those views are unfounded. Furthermore, we depend upon certain third-party distributors of our solutions and actions by those third parties could have a negative effect on our brand. We are incurring significant costs in our attempts to address the emerging mobile market and may not succeed in those attempts to penetrate or monetize that market. Individuals have spent increasingly more time on smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices and less on PCs, and we believe this trend will accelerate. Tablets and smartphones are generally referred to together as “mobile computing” or simply “mobile”. In order to increase mobile market penetration, we have grown both organically through developing products internally and inorganically through further business acquisitions. As the majority of our revenue currently comes from PC-based products, we consider the acquisition and monetization of users in the mobile space to be key for our future development. As of December 31, 2014, we had 101 million users in the mobile space, primarily users of smartphones. There can be no guarantee that we will be successful in growing our mobile user base either organically or inorganically or that we will be able to monetize the mobile user base. Trends in mobile may differ from those we predict and we may therefore design irrelevant or unwanted products which customers may not wish to use or pay for. User churn in mobile products may differ materially from churn in PC products and our systems may not be able to track such churn effectively, leading to incorrect investment decisions. Commercial, privacy and such other laws and regulation may change and affect trends in the mobile market, and our ability to attract and retain users may require additional effort and cost to comply and compete in this sector. We may also lack the scale to be able to effectively compete in the mobile sector, and competition may increase to the point where meaningful monetization is not possible. Any one of these factors or a combination of these factors may make our move into mobile unsuccessful and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our search-traffic program is crucial to our effort to monetize more of our active user base and this program is vulnerable to technological and regulatory change, including the rise of mobile computing, and our reliance on a limited number of search providers. Our most successful program to monetize our active user base has been our dynamic secure search solution, including our browser toolbar, which gives our users a convenient way to access a search engine at any time and to be secure that the sites that are the results of the search will not infect or damage their computers or other devices. Search engine companies pay us for the search queries we steer to them via our dynamic secure search solution. If software companies that provide Internet browsers prevent the addition of our toolbar, either directly by limiting space for toolbars in the browser interface or indirectly by restricting access to software code, our ability to monetize all of our active user base will be adversely affected. The rise of mobile computing makes this risk more acute as most mobile devices have smaller screens than desktop and laptop computers and software developed for these devices may not as readily accommodate additional toolbars as software developed for desktop and laptop computers. We have not yet begun distributing our toolbar with software designed specifically for mobile devices but intend to do so in future, as mobile represents a small but expanding proportion of the total search market. In addition, we currently expect that revenue per average active mobile user will be lower than revenue from traditional active users. As such, there can be no assurance that revenue from our dynamic secure search solution or other similar solutions we may develop will grow in line with our expectations, or that we will be able to maintain or expand our current and future platform-derived agreements or enter into additional agreements to generate platform-derived revenue. The failure of these markets to continue to grow, or our inability to penetrate these markets, would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents For the majority of platform-derived revenue, we have historically relied upon agreements with Yahoo! and Google to generate revenue from our dynamic secure search solution. Since the November 2012 renewal of our relationship with Google we have had non-exclusive arrangements with search engine companies, and now generate platform-derived revenue from multiple search engine companies, however the amount of revenue generated from search engine companies other than Yahoo! and Google is relatively small. Platform-derived revenue generated from our active users in certain geographical regions is dependent on Google, as alternative search providers do not generate significant income in those regions. Platform-derived revenue generated from Google accounted for 9% of our total revenue in 2014, a decrease from 28% of our total revenue in 2013 and 44% of our total revenue in 2012. Platform-derived revenue generated from Yahoo! accounted for 15% of our total revenue in 2014, an increase from 9% in 2013 and none in 2012. We have revenue concentration risk as we rely on our contractual arrangements with Yahoo! and Google for a significant portion of our revenue and we cannot guarantee that the revenue generated from the Yahoo! and Google sourced search agreements will continue. In 2014, we renewed our search agreements with Yahoo! and Google on a non-exclusive basis, for a term of 36 months and 16 months respectively. We anticipate that Yahoo! and Google together will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue. Search engine companies pay us a percentage of any search revenue generated whenever a user clicks on an ad (also called a sponsored link) served by that search engine company and hosted on one of our search domains. Our customers can access our secure search via the toolbar, default search, address bar or our search homepage. Any decline in the popularity of our products or a search engine we utilize could result in a decrease in revenue from this source under our agreements with search engine companies. Further this remains a competitive and dynamic marketplace and many of the participants, including but not limited to browser providers, search engine providers or other search providers, may make changes to their policies, guidelines or products which impact the operation of their search activities and in consequence impact our presence in the marketplace. These changes could require us to modify or suspend certain activities relating to our toolbar or search solutions, which could be costly for us to implement or lead to a reduction in the number of search customers and impact revenue. For example, Google released guidelines in February 2013 that restrict our ability to change our customers search settings. We may also need relevant applicable search engine companies’ permission to offer the toolbar or our dynamic search solution in a form other than that previously approved in connection with our initial contracts, which, if they did not grant such permission, could adversely impact our ability to generate revenue by preventing us from offering the toolbar or search solutions as we otherwise would. In addition, the search engine companies may terminate their respective agreements with us if the advertising revenue generated, query volume or traffic quality through our dynamic secure search solution falls below a certain level over a certain time period, and they have other customary termination rights under the agreement, including upon a change of control. Similarly, the revenue share under such agreements varies according to the amount of traffic we deliver to each search engine. The agreements with Yahoo! and Google expire on June 30, 2017 and March 31, 2016 respectively. Neither search engine company is under any obligation to renew its agreement. If, upon the termination or expiration of our agreements, we fail to enter into new agreements with Yahoo! or Google or a similar search provider on substantially the same or more favorable terms, our revenue would significantly decrease. We may also be unsuccessful in diversifying our search revenue and Yahoo! and Google will likely remain responsible in the near term for the majority of our platform-derived revenue, so we will likely continue to have significant revenue concentration risk. If we are unable to diversify platform-derived revenue beyond secure search, our business, financial condition and results of operation will be negatively impacted. A key aspect of our strategy to maximize the value of our active user base by indirect monetization occurs when we receive payments from third parties for activities undertaken by our user base but for which the user does not pay directly. Historically our platform revenue has been almost exclusively derived from our relationships with search providers. While we have sought to diversify this revenue stream outside of the search 13 Table of Contents business, and in particular we are currently seeking to expand our revenues in mobile advertising, these diversification activities to date have not yielded any meaningful revenue. As our search-based platform revenue declined in 2014 and, following the exit from the third party search distribution business, is expected to further decline in the future, the diversification of our platform business to areas outside of search has gained greater importance if we are to maintain our revenue growth. We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and online services as a result of numerous factors, most of which are beyond our control. Demand for our products and online services fluctuates from period to period due to factors such as general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, financial and business conditions of our current and potential customers and levels of Internet usage. Technological change includes the move away from PC-based computing to mobile-based computing and the associated slowdown of shipments in the PC market leading to a potential reduction of our total addressable market. There are also particular factors driving demand for each of our specific products and online services. For instance, demand for our Internet software solutions among our targeted customer base of small businesses and consumers is driven by our small business customers’ need for protection of business-critical data, consumers’ need for protection of their own personal data, potential users’ awareness of Internet security threats (including cybercrime) generally, the perceived potential damage caused by information loss and other factors. In addition, while concerns related to Internet privacy and the protection and control of Internet users’ personal information could potentially result in greater demand for some of our products and online services, there is also a risk that the growing awareness of potential privacy breaches and unintended sharing of personal information could slow overall growth in the adoption of Internet solutions, which we depend on to drive demand for our products and online services. Most of these factors are beyond our control. A change in the factors driving demand for our products and online services generally or for particular products and online services could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure or perceived failure to anticipate, prepare for and respond promptly to technological developments and the changing nature of online security threats could harm our competitive position and business prospects. The needs of our customers and the threats they face evolve constantly. For example, in the endpoint security market, hackers and cybercriminals continuously develop and employ increasingly sophisticated techniques to penetrate systems and networks and access information. Although the market expects timely introduction of software solutions to respond to new threats, the development of these solutions can be challenging and time-consuming. We may experience delays in the introduction of new solutions, updates, enhancements and features. This risk is expanding as the product portfolio grows. At the same time, the mobile market is changing faster than the PC market, thus increasing the need for timely introduction of new security solutions. If we fail or are perceived to fail to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our users by developing and introducing on a timely basis Internet security solutions that effectively protect against new security threats, our competitive position, reputation and business prospects could be harmed. Similarly, the endpoint security market is dynamic, characterized by new technologies and access points to the Internet, which also require protection from hackers and cybercriminal attacks. Responding to the challenges posed by these new platforms and their corresponding new threats can be difficult and require significant reengineering of our software. We may therefore fail or be perceived to fail to provide solutions for these new technology platforms as threats to them arise, which could harm our competitive position, reputation and business prospects and would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents If our upgrades and new products and online services, whether acquired or internally developed, fail to achieve widespread market acceptance, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. Our ability to attract new users and to maintain or increase revenue from existing users depends largely upon our ability to continue providing competitive new products and enhanced solutions that meet the changing needs of our target user base as these needs arise. In 2014, the most important additions to the product portfolio were AVG Zen, AVG Managed Workplace and Location Labs products. If either these or similar new products fail to gain acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We plan to continue to invest in acquisitions, and to increase spending on research and development, marketing, promotion and sales of our products and online services, with new features, functionalities, enhancements and upgrades. Acquisition of new companies and products creates integration risk, while development of upgrades and new products and online services involves significant time, labor and expense and is subject to risks and challenges including management of the length of the development cycle, adaptation to evolving industry standards, entry into new markets, integration into our existing product line, regulatory compliance, evolution in sales methods and acquisition and maintenance of intellectual property rights. If we fail to launch these upgrades or new solutions on time, or they do not achieve widespread market acceptance, do not meet user expectations, do not operate in an efficient manner, otherwise create the perception of slow operating performance, or generate revenue that is not sufficient to recoup or justify the cost of development, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If our new desired positioning as the online security company fails to achieve widespread market acceptance, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. We are undergoing a strategic pivot, with an aim to becoming the online security company, protecting data, devices and people. This positioning takes the concept of security to a higher, multi-platform and multi-device level. The launch of AVG Zen in 2014 and its continued development is critical in delivering on this positioning. The risks associated are now expanding from a single-product level to the additional risks associated with a multi-platform, multi-device strategy. Our failure to produce the right software solutions to manage that or to achieve market acceptance would negatively impact our competitive positioning and business prospects. A significant and currently increasing percentage of our total revenue comes from purchases of subscriptions to our premium products, which must by their terms be renewed by our users to remain in force. Historically, a significant majority of our active users have been users of our free products and online services. Our growth strategy is based in part on offering premium products on top of our core, free products. To the extent we are not able to convert these free users into subscription users, or otherwise attract users to our subscription products and services, our ability to generate subscription revenue would be adversely affected. We generally provide our premium Internet security solutions pursuant to one-year and two-year subscriptions, after which the relevant product or services either cease to operate or are no longer updated with the latest online threat information (rendering the product increasingly less useful as new threats emerge). In 2014, subscription revenue accounted for approximately 75% of our total revenue, compared to 62% of our total revenue in 2013. While we offer subscription users the option to renew their subscriptions, a significant portion of our subscription users choose not to do so. We have taken steps to increase our renewal rates by, for example, adding an auto-renew option on some of our premium products and online services, but there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful in increasing our renewal rates. The majority of users purchasing a license online in 2013 opted for auto-renewal. The European Union, or EU, introduced the EU Consumer Rights Directive, enforced in EU member states from June 2014, that restricts the use of auto-renewals, and we have implemented a new annual subscription model which is compliant with this Directive. As a consequence, the growth of our subscription revenue depends significantly on attracting new subscription users. Furthermore, the success of our annual subscription model is dependent on maintaining high levels of credit card authorization rates, which are subject to factors outside our control. For example, recent high-profile data thefts, particularly in the U.S., have necessitated the wholesale replacement of consumer credit cards and resulted in a decline in credit 15 Table of Contents card authorization rates. Any failure to maintain or improve the renewal rates of our subscription users or to attract new subscription users could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, our ability to measure the conversion of free users into subscription users is limited as there are multiple upgrade paths to our premium products and online services. We are currently not able to track accurately the conversion of customers from acquired companies. If we are unable to effectively track changes in conversion rates, regardless of the reason for such changes, we may be unable to react to changing market dynamics, and this may negatively affect our growth and revenue. Uncertainty about the renewal rates of our subscription users also limits visibility with respect to future subscription revenue. We are also planning to adapt our business model going forward for both SMBs and consumers to move towards a SaaS model which may involve customers paying on a monthly basis rather than the current annual prepayment. Such a change may result in reduced customer retention and cash flow if our customers fail to adopt our new billing methods. Our business will suffer if the SMB market for our products and online services proves less profitable than projected or if we fail to effectively acquire and service SMB customers. We market and sell a significant proportion of our products and online services to SMBs which in 2014 represented 16% of our revenue, 21% of which was derived from a hosted SaaS model. We are seeking to continue to transition this business towards a SaaS based model. Some resellers or customers however may be reluctant to move to SaaS solutions. In addition, if we are unable to maintain required service levels because of product or infrastructure failures our SaaS model might become less profitable. Some of our competitors, by contrast, have emphasized sales to larger enterprises, which are attractive customers due to the high revenue and low relative costs they offer per transaction and high renewal rates. SMBs frequently have limited budgets and may choose to allocate resources to items other than our products and online services, especially in times of economic uncertainty. We believe that the SMB market is underserved, however, and we intend to continue to devote substantial resources to it. We aim to grow our revenue by adding new SMB customers, selling additional services to existing SMB customers and encouraging existing SMB customers to renew their subscriptions to our premium products and by the transformation of the business into a SaaS model. If the SMB market fails to be as profitable for us as we project, we are unable to market and sell our services to SMBs effectively or we are unable to successfully transform this business into a SaaS model, our ability to remain profitable may be harmed. We operate in highly competitive markets and many of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do. The markets for the software solutions we offer are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes as customers’ needs and the threats they face evolve. We expect competition to increase in the future and we may not be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors. In particular, some of our competitors may make acquisitions or enter into agreements or other strategic relationships to offer more comprehensive products and/or services, and new competitors may enter the market through acquisitions, agreements or strategic or other such relationships. We and other vendors compete on price and functionality at different price points. Additional competition may cause increased pricing pressure, which could reduce our revenue per user. For example, in the endpoint security software market, while we have historically been able to reduce pricing pressure on our premium solutions and limit the decline in revenue per subscription user by releasing regular product enhancements, there can be no assurance that pricing pressure will not adversely affect our subscription revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Similarly, across our markets, our competitors may offer free products perceived to be superior to our offerings, causing our free and/or subscription users to switch and shrinking our monetizeable user base. 16 Table of Contents Our main competitors fall into the following categories: • vendors with “freemium” pricing like our own, such as Avast!, Avira, PC Tools (which was acquired by Symantec), Carbonite and Dropbox; • traditional vendors such as Intel Security (formerly McAfee, which was acquired by Intel Corporation), Symantec and Trend Micro (which primarily provide software solutions, including security software, for large enterprises) and Eset, Kaspersky Labs, Panda Software, Sophos, Bit Defender, Rising, Kingsoft, Check Point and F-Secure (which offer more customized and segment-focused products); • vendors offering PC optimization products, such as UniBlue; • secure search toolbar providers; • SMB SaaS players such as Kaseya and Solarwinds; • other vendors in the emerging mobile market, such as Lookout, NQ Mobile and Cheetah Mobile; • large corporations offering a wide variety of products, only a few of which compete with ours, such as Microsoft, Google, which recently introduced free security software solutions, Apple, which offers cloud-based data protection, Qihoo, Tencent and Facebook; and • vendors providing services adjacent to security as we expand our product offerings, such as Lifelock and Life 360. Many of these competitors have significantly greater brand name recognition and financial resources to devote to the development, promotion and sale of their products and/or services than we do. For example, Microsoft entered the endpoint security market through the introduction of Microsoft Security Essentials (Windows Defender under Windows 8), a free Internet security product that has captured a significant share of the free endpoint security market. Similarly, Google, one of our two primary providers for our platform-derived revenue stream, has offered products in the security space, for example, by adding a malware alarm to its search engine results display and it may increase its security offerings in future. Further, smaller and/or more regionally focused vendors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer demand as recently evidenced by the rapid growth of Internet companies like Qihoo and Tencent. Software vendors have increasingly employed a “cloud-based” or SaaS business model in which vendors host applications for use by customers over the Internet. This model may disrupt existing models like the model we employ for most of our products and online services, based on software downloaded from the Internet that resides on a user’s hard drive. Our competitors, including new cloud-based entrants or larger competitors with greater resources to shift to a new model, may have success with cloud-based provision of software, decreasing the demand for those of our products based on another model or new and existing products we may provide using the SaaS model, such as in the SMB market. In the future, we may face competition from both emerging and established companies operating in our sector and in other areas of the IT business that may develop or acquire software that they may offer as part of their broader product or service offerings and/or for free. Original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, or operating system vendors may seek to include competitive, pre-installed, fully functional Internet software and mobile solutions with their core product offering. For example, Intel acquired McAfee, one of our leading competitors, and indicated it may integrate McAfee’s security solutions into its hardware products, which may adversely affect sales of our aftermarket and/or standalone security solutions. In addition, other competitors may leverage their greater resources to develop relationships with OEMs or operating system vendors, thereby diminishing demand for our products and adversely affecting our ability to acquire and retain customers. Our business relies on the significant experience and expertise of our key management and technical staff and we must continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel in order to grow our business successfully. Our future performance depends on the continued service and performance of our key management, research and development and sales personnel. We may fail to retain key management, research and development 17 Table of Contents and sales employees, or to attract the qualified staff needed to manage and grow our business. We may also fail to attract and retain highly qualified technical, services and management personnel in the future, or may face time-consuming and costly integration of replacement personnel. As a consequence of the need to attract and retain highly skilled personnel and given the technology focus of our business, our legal entities, operations and management team are widely spread. For example, we have significant operations throughout Europe, the United States and Canada and the placement of our management team reflects this distribution. This could result in the business not running as smoothly as if all employees and management were situated in one location. Our failure to adequately protect our customers’ personal data and information or to comply with applicable laws, regulations and other obligations relating to privacy and data security could have a material adverse effect on our business. A wide variety of provincial, state, national and foreign laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data and information. These data protection and privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and may result in ever-increasing regulatory and public scrutiny and escalating levels of enforcement and sanctions. By acquiring Location Labs in 2014 and integrating its product portfolio, this risk has also expanded. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or to protect such data, could result in enforcement action, including fines, imprisonment of Company officials and public censure, claims for damages by customers and other affected individuals, damage to reputation and loss of goodwill (both in relation to existing customers and prospective customers), any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance and prospects. Evolving and changing definitions of personal data and information, especially relating to classification of IP addresses, machine identification, location data and other information, may limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our business, including limiting strategic partnerships that may involve the use or sharing of personal data and information. We offer a privacy product which monitors consumers’ exposure to potential privacy breaches. As a provider of privacy products, any breach of the regulations or loss of customer data would have a potentially negative impact on our reputation in the privacy and security market. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation and inhibit adoption of our products and services by current and future customers. We are subject to privacy laws, which have become increasingly stringent. We collect and process personal data (including email addresses, IP addresses, device identifiers, customer satisfaction data, physical names and addresses, customer service issues and website visits) as part of our business. In addition, a majority of our online customers purchase our services online with a credit card. As a result, we must comply with both data protection and privacy laws and standards adopted by credit card issuers. Those laws and standards regulate and restrict our ability to collect and use personal data and information relating to customers and potential customers. This could impact our strategy for future growth, which involves greater interaction with our customer base. For example, in the EU, the Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations (PECR) or “Cookies Law”, relating to the use of “cookies” and the solicitation, collection, processing or other use of personal data and information, have been enacted by most jurisdictions across the EU impacting our ability to monitor and monetize our customers’ interaction patterns. We see an increase of interest by data protection authorities in the use of non-personal data and information, and the introduction of the principle that such data should be treated like personal data. A new EU regulation proposes increased penalties of up to 5% of gross annual world-wide revenue or €100 Million (whichever amount is higher) for non-compliance. This regulation may be enacted in 2015 or early 2016. In the United States the new proposed Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights applies to any U.S. individual’s personal data, including aggregated data. The new proposed Personal Data Notification and Protection Act would 18 Table of Contents create a U.S. national standard for breach notification and establish a 30-day notice requirement upon discovery. We also noted a trend away from “Opt Out” and toward “Opt In” principles compliant with the Canadian and EU jurisdictions. Additionally, the requirements imposed by data protection laws and regulations in one jurisdiction can conflict with laws and regulations, and the demands of regulators and other governmental authorities, in other jurisdictions. For example, U.S. authorities can demand access to data that is accessible to or controlled or collected by our group companies. If any of this data includes personal data and/or confidential information, it is possible that any such disclosure could cause us to breach data protection and privacy laws and regulations in one or more member states of the EU or other jurisdictions. These developments in laws and regulations, and any future developments, could require additional effort in the handling of data once collected, make us liable for, or failure to promptly detect, breaches of data protection and privacy laws and regulations; impact our current data collection model and plans to optimize on its financial potential; and impact on our ability to build additional commercial partnerships. Our data security defenses could be breached. Notwithstanding our efforts to secure our IT, data security and other systems, we are exposed to the risk that this personal data and information could be wrongfully accessed or used, whether by employees, customers or other third parties, or otherwise lost or disclosed or processed in a manner that violates applicable data protection laws and regulations. For example, the business that Locations Labs operates requires it to store location data with respect to children of subscribers on our servers, as well as other potentially identifiable information that is potentially more attractive to hackers than the data we had previously been collecting, which may increase the likelihood of attempted attacks against us. Any breach of security of this or other personal data would negatively impact our credibility and could result in a negative impact on our brand. In certain jurisdictions where we operate, we are under an affirmative legal obligation to notify the appropriate government authorities or data subjects in circumstances where personal data and information may have been wrongly accessed or used, or otherwise lost or disclosed. Efforts to mitigate and comply with such laws, and even the perception of a data security breach, increase the risk that such incidents will lead to sanctions (including fines and other penalties), claims by data subjects and disclosure leading to public knowledge of the breach, potentially causing reputational damage to our business. Under the new EU Regulations the European Commission is considering proposals to broaden the obligation to implement security measures and report security incidents, and similar proposals may be made in the U.S. and there have been increased enforcement actions by the FTC against firms that are non-compliant. We may be subject to such security breaches, leading to reputational or direct economic damages. We may also be unable to provide adequate systems or controls to allow us to effectively mitigate the impact of such breach or may not have adequate preventative or detective controls to allow us to fulfill our disclosure obligations in a timely manner, all of which could impact our business significantly. Regulation of the Internet and the lack of certainty regarding application of existing laws to the Internet could substantially harm our operating results and business. We are subject to laws and regulations applicable to doing business on the Internet over both PCs and mobile devices. It is often not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales tax and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet as these laws have in some cases failed to keep pace with technological change. Recently enacted laws governing the Internet could also impact our business. For instance, existing and future regulations on taxing Internet use or transactions or restricting the exchange of information over the Internet could result in reduced growth or a decline in the use of the Internet and could diminish the viability of our services. In particular, the EU has approved rules to restrict the use of automatic renewals (and the U.S. is considering similar proposals), and we have implemented a new annual subscription 19 Table of Contents model which is compliant with the EU requirements. The new annual subscription model may reduce the renewal rate of and subscription revenue for our premium products. Furthermore, it is possible that governments of one or more countries may censor, limit or block certain users’ access to our websites. Changing legal, regulatory and industry standards and industry self-regulation regarding the collection, use and disclosure of certain data may have similar effects. Any such adverse legal or regulatory developments could substantially harm our operating results and our business. Regulation of the platforms for application distribution and installation by industry players like Google and Apple and industry standards organizations could substantially harm our operating results and business. Distribution, installation, design and operation of our products is subject to guidelines controlled by third parties who control the platforms and environment in which our products operate, such as Google, Apple, Microsoft and Mozilla. Additionally, there are standards bodies being formed that will govern behavior of vendors across the industry. In recent years, these guidelines have become stricter and more frequently enforced. For example, certain search engine companies have made and may in the future unilaterally make changes to their policies and guidelines, such as deciding to make all acceptances of such products opt in rather than opt out, which impacts our acceptance rates negatively. These changes could require us to modify or suspend certain activities relating to our toolbar or search solutions, which could be costly for us to implement or lead to a reduction in the number of search customers and impact revenue. Additionally, certain mobile phone operating systems have continued to make changes to their app store guidelines which have resulted in an increased risk of applications being removed and features limited. Further changes to these guidelines in the future may negatively impact our ability to control the features of our products, our ability to distribute our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We discovered that we and our resellers had sold or provided certain products to a small number of users in jurisdictions that are the subject of export controls laws and economic sanctions administered by the U.S. Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security and the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, resulting in possible inadvertent violations of certain export controls laws and sanctions in the past. Despite having controls in place, we cannot guarantee that we will not violate such laws in the future. We have implemented an export control compliance program, which is intended to prevent access to our products to denied persons and to users located in prohibited countries as listed by the U.S. Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry & Security (“BIS”) and the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). Our products are primarily free mass market software products and we believe we are in compliance with applicable export controls laws and economic sanctions and have taken and continue to take the necessary actions to prevent the access of our products to denied persons and to users in prohibited countries. Previously, we filed voluntary self-disclosures with OFAC and BIS to report occasional distributions of our products in Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan and Syria during the five years before our IPO. We implemented a remediation plan, and the matters were closed without the imposition of any fines or penalties on us. In December 2011, we received a cautionary letter from OFAC and in November 2013, we received a warning letter from BIS. However, there can be no assurance that our compliance policies, procedures and controls will be effective to prevent future violations. If we are found to be in violation of BIS, OFAC or similar regulations in the future, we may face criminal and civil penalties and reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our future revenue depends on our ability to continue to market to new users, which we may not be able to accomplish on a cost-effective basis or at all. We are dependent on the acquisition of new users, many of whom have not previously used products and online services such as those we provide. We rely and have relied on a variety of marketing methods to attract 20 Table of Contents new users to our solutions, such as generating interest through our user base and social networking services to create a user-driven marketing effect, public relations campaigns around new product and service launches and Internet security threats and efforts to improve our positioning in response to online searches through search engine optimization, search engines and other online advertising. Our ability to attract new users depends on the perceived value of our products and online services versus that of the premium and free products and online services offered by our competitors. This dependence increases as we move into new markets such as PC optimization and privacy and address new platforms such as mobile and as the number of users in our traditional PC market may begin to decline as a result of increased mobile usage. If our current marketing initiatives are not successful or become less effective, or if the cost of such initiatives were to significantly increase, we may not be able to attract new customers as efficiently and, as a result, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We have historically relied heavily on user-driven marketing to attract new users to our solutions, although we expect to increase our spending on marketing in the future. If we are unable to maintain or increase the efficacy of our user-driven marketing strategy, particularly in the new markets we may enter, or if our more costly marketing campaigns do not have the desired impact, we may be required to increase marketing expenses still further to compensate, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will be successful in maintaining or expanding our user base on a cost-effective basis or at all, and failure to do so would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our software solutions may contain undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities, which could cause harm to our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our software is inherently complex and may contain material defects, errors or vulnerabilities that may cause it to fail to perform in accordance with our technical specifications and program documentation, or with user expectations. As may happen to any vendor of software, errors, failures and bugs may be found in some of our new offerings or updates after initial distribution of those offerings or updates, particularly given that end users may deploy our products and services in computing environments with operating systems, software and/or hardware different than those in which we test our products and services before release. The costs incurred in analyzing, correcting or eliminating any material defects or errors in our software may be substantial. Furthermore, we may not be able to correct any defects or errors or address vulnerabilities promptly, or at all, or may become subject to legal disputes, claims and proceedings, including class action lawsuits, causing significant harm to our reputation and competitive position. Any defects, errors or vulnerabilities may cause interruptions to the availability of our software and result in lost or delayed market acceptance and sales, or may require us to issue refunds to our customers. Security products are critical to the businesses of many of our customers, which may make them more sensitive to defects in our products than to defects in other types of software. We could face claims for product liability, tort, breach of warranty or damages caused by faulty installation of, or defects in, our products. In addition, we need to maintain service levels and we could face service liability claims. In the event of claims, provisions in our contracts relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations may be unenforceable. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management attention. Defects, errors and vulnerabilities may also lead to loss of existing or potential customers, to diversion of development resources, or to increasing our services, warranty, product replacement and product liability insurance costs, and may damage our reputation. Our product liability insurance coverage may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms or at all. The value of our products and online services is partially dependent on the quality of our support services and our failure to offer adequate support services could have an adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations. Our users depend on us and, to some extent, on our user community, to resolve installation, technical or other issues relating to our software solutions and online services. We consider a high level of service to be 21 Table of Contents critical for the successful marketing and adoption of our software as well as for retaining our existing users. In providing the required level of service, we rely in part on the feedback and knowledge shared through our active online user community. Also, we have outsourced certain of our consumer support functions to third-party service providers, which may fail to perform at the level specified in our contracts with them. We also now provide a service in certain geographies where free user support is available for free users. Our service level agreements with our customers on the availability of our SaaS products are important to us and therefore need to be maintained. If we, our user community or our third-party service providers do not provide accurate technical assistance or otherwise succeed in helping our users resolve issues related to the use of our software solutions and online services, we may find ourselves in breach of SLAs. For example, we have in the past been notified of a breach of a service level agreement, and while the breach was remedied and did not result in any penalty, there can be no assurance that breaches will not occur in the future that could harm our business, results of operations and reputation. Similarly if we are unable to successfully operate the model for free user support for free users or the basis for the operation of that model changes, then our financial results may be negatively impacted or we may be forced to discontinue the service which could damage our reputation. Our current operations are international in scope and we plan further geographic expansion, creating a variety of operational challenges. Our offices, personnel and customers are dispersed around the world. We face difficulties including costs associated with developing software and providing support in many languages, varying seasonality patterns, potential adverse movement of currency exchange rates, longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in some countries, tariffs and trade barriers, a variety of regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to operate, adverse tax events, reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries and a geographically and culturally diverse workforce and customer base. The geographic distribution of employees in particular has expanded over time and we plan to continue this expansion as we move employees away from our traditional operational center in the Czech Republic. In particular, during 2014, we completed new acquisitions in Brazil, U.S. and Northern Europe. Failure to overcome any of these difficulties could negatively affect our results of operations. We intend to further expand our operations globally by initially seeking to expand our user base, developing a local version of our product, seeking to introduce localized services and finding a local distributor to manage the distribution of our premium solutions. If these efforts are unsuccessful in creating and expanding our global user base, or if our expansion increases the difficulties of running a global company, our results of operations could be harmed. We are subject to fluctuations in our financial results, making it difficult to project future results. A variety of factors cause volatility in our financial results, making any projections of future results uncertain. Such factors include but are not limited to fluctuations in demand for or pricing of our products and services, impacts of acquisitions, timing of product orders and payments, issues relating to alliances with third parties, product and geographic mix, timing of new products and customers, currency exchange fluctuations and potential accelerations of prepaid expenses and deferred costs and the impact of taxation with respect to the foregoing. Accurately measuring the number and retention of our active and subscription users is difficult and our failure to accurately measure the number and retention of our active and subscription users at any time will compromise our ability to monitor our key performance indicators, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to manage our business. As of and after March 31, 2014, we have defined active users as those that (i) have downloaded and installed our free software on a PC and have connected to our server at least once in the previous 30 days (ii) represent a unique mobile device, which has contacted our server once in the preceding 30-day period, (iii) have a valid subscription license for our software solutions or (iv) represent a unique device using our secure search solution that has made at least one secure search in the preceding 30-day period. Previously, we defined 22 Table of Contents active users as those that (i) have downloaded and installed our free software on a PC and have connected to our server at least twice, including at least once in the preceding 30-day period, (ii) represent a unique mobile device, which has installed one or more of our mobile applications, from which at least one application has contacted our server twice in the preceding 30-day period (with at least 24 hours between the first and second contact), (iii) have a valid subscription license for our software solutions or (iv) represent a unique device using our secure search solution that has made at least one secure search in the preceding 30-day period. The changes as outlined above had an immaterial impact on PC users and led to an increase in the net number of mobile users of 2.4 million as of March 31, 2014. The presented comparative active user numbers for 2013 are based on the previous definition of active users. Subscription users are active users who subscribe to our premium products and online services, the primary component of our subscription revenue. We have not historically recognized unique users with a valid subscription license to our AVG-branded PC optimization product as subscribers. However, as of and after December 31, 2014, we are including our AVG-branded PC optimization product unique users in our total user count, included where the users have not subscribed to any other AVG products, which results in a 0.7 million higher number of unique subscription users being recognized. If we had recognized unique users of our AVG-branded PC optimization product as subscribers as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, our subscribers at such dates would have been 0.6 million higher and 0.6 million higher, respectively. Of the total AVG-branded PC optimization product users, the proportion that are unique is estimated at 48% and 58% as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. We include in the number of free users those with trial licenses and licenses distributed for promotional purposes. We believe that our methodology for counting our user base is more conservative than methodologies used by other software companies, some of which count users with less frequent interaction. We will continue to attempt to improve the accuracy of our measurement of the numbers of our active users, but we cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in doing so. For example, we have made various adjustments to our counting methodology over time, including by changing the way users are recognized and counted during upgrade campaigns. While we believe these adjustments have improved the overall accuracy of our user numbers, we have still discovered some errors. As a result, we also introduced two new systems for counting user numbers. However, this project is ongoing and will not be fully implemented until all users have migrated to the new version of our products. Once these counting systems are fully implemented, based on initial results, we expect that we will have greater confidence in the accuracy of our user counts, but these systems remain new and have not been tested over time, and there can be no assurance that they will meet our expectations. We seek to analyze and eliminate any double count of the number of active users who are using our search product or our PC optimization product as well as our PC security product in our user base. We also face difficulties in quantifying user retention, both in terms of user churn and subscription renewal rates. This difficulty is in part due to our limited ability to track non-subscription users based on personally identifiable information. For instance, when a non-subscription user replaces a device on which he or she uses our products and services, this event typically registers as the loss of an existing user and the gain of a new one, causing no change to the size of our user base but inflating the level of apparent churn. We compile renewal rates for users of particular subscription products, but such rates only describe the activities of subscription users representing a small portion of our total active user base. Furthermore, we offer a variety of products and online services and do not have integrated methods of quantifying retention of our users across these products and services. This inability to quantify certain aspects of aggregate user behavior may adversely affect our business if we are unable to accurately monitor the results of our strategic decisions on pricing and product introduction and marketing. In particular, if we are unable to accurately assess and predict user behavior, our initiative to up-sell and cross-sell our expanding set of products and services to users across our platform may be harmed. Our understanding and management of our business depends on accurate measures of the numbers of our active and subscription users and other key performance indicators derived from these metrics and our management decisions may be suboptimal if our measurements of these key metrics are inaccurate. Furthermore, 23 Table of Contents if a significant understatement or overstatement of our active user or subscription user metrics were to occur, the market might perceive us to be underperforming or to have inadequate systems, which could adversely affect our share price. Additionally, as we grow into other markets and particularly the mobile market, certain of our other users may also be among our PC users, and we are currently unable to determine the extent of this duplication. This means that the number of our underlying customers is likely to be less than the number or our active users when calculated as described above. We currently define a customer, as opposed to an active user, as a person who purchases or uses a product or service, or multiple products or services. We do not currently have the means to accurately count the number of our customers. We intend to develop such means, but our ability to do so will be constrained by our technical capabilities. As new products such as those in the Locations Labs portfolio and AVG Zen gain traction, we expect to continue to change our method of counting users to reflect more relevant metrics. Furthermore, product design developments may also results in new ways of counting users. Our customers using new products in unexpected ways may give us difficulties in recording or accurately reflecting in any given way our user count. Any change in the way we count our users may make it difficult to compare our operating results and financial results with prior periods. We depend on download sites and search engines to attract a significant percentage of our users and if those sites or search engines change their listings, increase their pricing or experience a material reduction in their online traffic, our ability to attract new users would be adversely affected. Many of our users locate our products and online services and our website through download sites and search engines. A significant number of new users of our endpoint security solution acquire that software through just one of the many download sites that features our products, CNET’s Download.com website. If any of our key download sites such as Download.com cease to feature or carry our solutions or traffic to them declines, fewer potential users may download our products, particularly our AVG Anti-Virus Free Edition. Search engines typically provide two types of search results – algorithmic and purchased listings – and we rely on both types. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased and are determined and displayed based on criteria formulated by the relevant search engine. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search results. If the search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms in a manner that reduces the prominence of our listings, fewer potential users may click through to our websites, requiring us to resort to more costly methods of attracting this traffic. Furthermore, the majority of our traffic from search engines came from two sources, Yahoo! and Google. This traffic is unrelated to our agreement with Google to steer search queries to Google in connection with our dynamic secure search solution. The concentration of search traffic from a few search engines increases our vulnerability to potential algorithm modifications by that search engine. Any failure to replace the traffic to our website coming from search engines could reduce our revenue or require us to increase our customer acquisition expenditures. Similarly, we have in the past and may in the future be the target of so-called “cybersquatters,” who seek to register Internet domain names that are confusingly similar to our own domains or marks. Although we have not suffered material losses due to cybersquatters to date, we nonetheless make diligent efforts to block their activities. Some cybersquatters have taken our free product and sold it to users, which could lead to confusion among our users and, ultimately, a loss of these users, which would reduce any platform revenue that we would have received from these users. In addition, although no cyber-squatting incidents have raised material security concerns relating to our business and products to date, there can be no guarantee that future cybersquatting incidents will not cause material losses or raise security concerns. If search engines rank cybersquatters’ imitation websites above our own sites, existing or potential customers may be misled, and this could harm our reputation, cost us consumer goodwill and negatively affect our operating results. 24 Table of Contents Adverse conditions in national and global economies or adverse information technology spending trends in the consumer and SMB markets may adversely affect our business and financial results. National and global economies have recently experienced a prolonged downturn and the future severity of adverse economic conditions and the length of time such conditions may persist is unknown. In particular, ongoing concerns about sovereign debt in both the EU and the U.S. have increased economic uncertainty and raised the possibility of further disruption in the global capital markets. During challenging economic times, periods of high unemployment and in tight credit markets, many of our users may delay or reduce technology purchases. This is true of both consumers and SMBs, whether independent or part of a network. Such delays or reductions in purchasing could result in reductions in sales primarily of our online services, as well as our products, difficulties in collecting our accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies, lower renewal rates and increased price competition. Other trends (whether the result of economic factors or otherwise), such as reduction in interest in our products leading to declines in traffic to our sites, declines in the demand for PCs, servers and other computing devices, or softness in small business and consumer information technology spending, could have similar effects. Nearly all of our revenue is currently derived from our PC users and there has been a global slowdown in PC shipments as consumers and businesses switch to mobile devices. The persistence of any of these conditions would likely harm our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. In 2014, a significant part of our total revenue was comprised of sales into the U.S. and we are therefore exposed to conditions in the U.S. Any continuation of or further deterioration in these conditions or a reduction in consumer or small business information technology spending for any reason could result in a downturn in sales of our premium software solutions or adoption of our online services such as our hosted SaaS offering, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our growth, business, revenue and results of operations. False detection of viruses or other security or privacy threats by our products and online services could adversely affect our business. Some of our solutions identify threats by “behavioral monitoring,” which is a methodology that seeks to identify threats by their behavior rather than scanning for malicious code. There are inherent inaccuracies in the detection of threats based on behavioral monitoring and as a result, our anti-virus and other Internet security services may falsely indicate the presence of viruses and other threats that do not actually exist even when these programs are working correctly. These “false positives” may impair the perceived reliability of our services and may therefore harm our market reputation. Also, our anti-spam and anti-spyware services may falsely identify emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs, or alternatively fail to properly identify unwanted emails or programs, particularly as spam emails or spyware are often designed to circumvent Internet security software. Parties whose emails or programs are blocked by our services may seek redress against us for labeling them as spammers or spyware, or for interfering with their business. In addition, false identification of emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted software may reduce the popularity and adoption of our services. Also, since our launch of Do-Not-Track functionality we may falsely identify and block tracking advertising networks or websites. If our system restricts important files, applications or tracking advertising networks or websites based on falsely identifying them as malware or some other item that should be restricted, this could adversely affect customers’ systems and cause material system failures. Any such false identification of important files, applications or tracking advertising networks or websites could result in negative publicity, loss of customers and sales, increased costs to remediate and costly litigation. Our software products and IT infrastructure may be subject to intentional disruption that could harm our reputation and future sales. We have been the target of spam attacks on our email addresses and denial of service and other sophisticated attacks on our websites, mail system and firewalls. Although we believe we have sufficient controls 25 Table of Contents in place to prevent intentional disruptions or to regain control following such an attack, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance of our products. Similarly, experienced computer programmers, including programmers on our staff, could attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our solutions and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruption of our services. Because the techniques used by such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these attacks. In addition, hackers have created pirated versions of our software, malware that attacks our software after it has been downloaded onto customers’ computers and malware that deceptively assumes our brand name and imitates the interface of our software, encouraging our users and potential users to download it in place of our software. We may face legal liability, our activities could be adversely affected and our reputation, brand and future sales could be harmed if these intentionally disruptive efforts are or are perceived to be successful. We may be required to expend significant resources both to protect us against system architecture and network failure and disruption and to enable us to grow or sustain our business. Our core web server content is stored in four data centers, which are located in Amsterdam, London, Toronto and Prague. Virus definition files are sent to Akamai Technologies GmbH, a content delivery network, for distribution to our customers and backed up at our primary and secondary data centers, which are located at separate sites for redundancy purposes. While we have disaster recovery plans for critical business systems, we currently do not have written or formal business continuity plans with regard to our virus research and systems in general. Furthermore, our systems are composed of various components which were not designed to interoperate with one another, potentially leading to significant system breakdowns. Although we believe we have the technical knowledge necessary to mitigate problems relating to our systems and system architecture, we may at any time be required to expend significant capital or other resources (including staff and management time and resources) to protect ourselves against network failure and disruption, including the replacement or upgrading of our existing business continuity systems, procedures and security measures. In addition, our evolving business model and growth plan will require expansion and upgrading of our systems to support additional users, localities, products and online services. These expansions and upgrades will likely consume significant capital and managerial resources. If replacements, expansions, upgrades and/or other maintenance are not implemented successfully or completed efficiently, or there are operational failures, the quality of our product portfolio and service experienced by our users will be adversely affected. If, as a result, users were to reduce or stop their use of our Internet security solutions, this could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance and prospects. We may become subject to unanticipated tax liabilities that have a material adverse effect. AVG Technologies N.V. is a company incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands and on this basis is subject to Netherlands tax laws as a Netherlands resident taxpayer. We believe that it is resident solely in the Netherlands for tax purposes and that we, and generally, the holders of our shares, can rely on this position for purposes of the application of tax treaties between the Netherlands and other jurisdictions. However, if our tax position were successfully challenged by applicable tax authorities, or if there were changes in the tax laws, tax treaties, or the interpretation or application thereof (which could in certain circumstances have retroactive effect) or in the manner in which we conduct our activities and manage our operations, AVG Technologies N.V. could be considered or may become a resident of a jurisdiction other than the Netherlands, which could subject us to unanticipated tax liabilities, possibly on a retroactive basis and holders of our shares could become subject to different tax treatment in respect of the acquisition, holding (including in respect of dividend payments on our shares or other distributions), redemption or disposal of our shares. 26 Table of Contents Challenges by various tax authorities to our international structure may, if successful, increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our earnings. We are a Dutch public limited liability company holding subsidiaries that operate in multiple jurisdictions in addition to the Netherlands, including the United States, Czech Republic, Germany, Cyprus, United Kingdom, Israel, France, Australia, Canada, Switzerland, China, Spain, India, Norway, Denmark, Sweden and Brazil. We have undertaken, and may in the future undertake, internal re-organizations which alter the proportion of people, resources and revenue in any given jurisdiction over time. We determine the amount of taxes we are required to pay based on our interpretation of the applicable laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate and our application of the general transfer pricing principles to our cross-border intercompany transactions. Many countries’ tax laws and international treaties impose taxation upon entities that conduct a trade or business or operate through a permanent establishment in those countries. However, these applicable laws and treaties are subject to interpretation. The tax authorities in these countries may contend that a greater portion of the income of the group should be subject to income or other tax in their respective jurisdictions. This may result in an increase to our effective tax rate and adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, tax audits may expose us to potential adverse tax consequences, including interest payments and potential penalties. Changes in international or national tax laws and regulations or in the channels in which we distribute our solutions may adversely affect our business and reported results. Our business is internationally organized in multiple jurisdictions that can be subject to changes in international or national tax regulations and related proposals. Changes in such tax laws, regulations, related interpretations and tax accounting standards in the United States, Czech Republic, Germany, Cyprus, United Kingdom, Israel, France, Australia, China, Canada, Switzerland, Spain, India, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Brazil and the Netherlands and other jurisdictions may result in a higher tax rate on our earnings, which may result in a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flow from operations. Governments are increasingly considering tax law changes as a means to cover budgetary shortfalls resulting from the recent economic environment. If such proposals were enacted, or if modifications were made to certain existing tax treaties, or if tax authorities were to change their interpretations of such existing laws or treaties, the consequences may have a material adverse impact on us, including increasing our tax obligations, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, even if tax laws and regulations remain unchanged, a change in the channels in which we distribute our solutions could adversely affect our effective tax rate. For example, growth in retail “box-on-shelf” sales would subject us to additional income tax in the jurisdiction of the relevant selling entity, resulting in a higher portion of our income being subject to a higher tax rate. These events could increase our effective tax rate and therefore reduce our net profits. Laws regarding the tax deductibility of interest in the Netherlands may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. The Dutch government has approved legislation limiting the deductibility of interest. The law limits the interest deductions in respect of all loans used to acquire a Dutch target company which is either (i) included in a corporation tax consolidation (i.e. fiscal unity) with the acquirer or (ii) merged with the acquirer. Interest expenses incurred on borrowings obtained to finance such acquisition structures would be deductible against the stand-alone taxable income of the acquirer only (i.e., in effect, the fiscal unity or legal merger is disregarded). A grandfathering applies for leveraged acquisitions that resulted in the inclusion of the Dutch target company in a fiscal unity or legal merger with the acquirer before November 15, 2011. The legislation should not limit the tax deductibility of the interest payable by us under our current indebtedness, including indebtedness in relation to 27 Table of Contents Location Labs. However, in certain circumstances if we were to incur new indebtedness, the legislation would limit the tax deductibility of the interest payable by us in the future and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation. U.S. states may seek to impose state and local business taxes. Even if our non-U.S. entities are not subject to U.S. federal income tax, those entities could still be liable for U.S. state and local business activity taxes based upon income or gross receipts. States generally impose business activity taxes on entities deriving revenue from customers located within the state, owning or leasing property in the state or employing personnel in the state. States are becoming increasingly aggressive in asserting nexus for business activity tax purposes. Therefore, in states where we have customers, employees, agents or any activity, state tax authorities may attempt to assert nexus. If, based on our sale of products or services in the state, a state tax authority asserts that our activities give rise to nexus, we could be subject to an increased state and local tax obligations. EU state aid investigations by European Commission may lead to increased tax obligations on us. The European Commission has recently launched investigations into whether certain rulings by tax authorities in Luxembourg, Ireland, and the Netherlands comply with state aid restrictions in the EU. Under EU law, certain types of state aid are not permissible, and selective tax advantages for particular taxpayers may constitute state aid under those rules. The investigations examine whether rulings given to particular taxpayers provide undue advantages to those taxpayers. If a ruling is determined to constitute state aid that is incompatible with EU law, the taxpayer may be required to repay that aid, i.e. essentially, the taxes that would have been due in the absence of the state aid. If the European Commission starts investigations and successfully challenges our tax rulings with Dutch tax authorities, we could be subject to increased tax obligations. We have adapted our systems and processes to comply with new value-added tax (“VAT”) regulations in the EU entered into force as of January 1, 2015, and any failure to comply could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. Effective January 1 2015, all businesses that supply e-services, broadcasting or telecommunications services to EU consumers are required to charge VAT at the rate of the member state where the customer is based, instead of at the rate where the business is based. These changes are the final phase of the “VAT Package” within EU Council Directive 2008/8/EC of February 12, 2008, amending Directive 2006/112/EC as regards the place of supply of services. This rule has applied to non-EU suppliers for many years, but is now applicable to suppliers based within the EU, including us. To simplify the process of collection and accounting for VAT in the twenty-eight member states of the EU, a mini-one-stop-shop registration scheme (“MOSS”) will enable suppliers to register for VAT in only one member state, instead of in every country where it has customers. As a consequence of this change, we have adapted our systems and processes to ensure we can accurately determine the member state of residence of customers in the EU so that we can collect VAT at the correct rate and remit it to the tax authorities. If we are unable to effectively maintain these systems and processes, we may risk penalties for non-compliance as well as any potential costs of paying VAT that we may fail to collect, together with associated interest, or in refunding customers where we may have incorrectly collected VAT. Any non-compliance with our obligations to collect and pay VAT, or any impact on our customers in the EU from an inadequate VAT collection process, could have an adverse impact on our reputation and on the willingness of customers to do business with us, potentially leading to a reduction in active users and in revenue. The Dutch tax authorities furthermore granted us a MOSS registration number. End-user taxation in our key sales jurisdictions could impact our revenues and a successful assertion that we should have been collecting (or collecting additional) sales tax or other transaction taxes on prior sales of products or services could result in substantial tax liabilities. Point-of-sale taxation, including U.S. state and local sales/use taxes, of our products and of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for 28 Table of Contents accessing the Internet, may be imposed on our end users and/or on us. Increased taxation on our end users for the purchase or use of our products and online services could have a material impact on the purchasing decisions of our end users and adversely affect our revenues and could also increase our internal costs. If we do not collect reimbursement for such assessments from our customers, we would become liable for these taxes. In addition, a successful assertion by any state, local jurisdiction or country that we should have been collecting (or should have been collecting additional) sales or other transaction taxes on the sale of our products or services could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales. Historically, we have taken the position that our sales of software delivered over the Internet are not subject to sales/use taxes in the states in the United States. This conclusion was based on one or both of the following propositions: (i) many states do not impose sales/use tax on electronic delivery of our products; and (ii) AVG eCommerce CY Limited, operating our search partnerships and third party search distribution, did not have a physical presence and did not have nexus in any state in the United States. However, it is possible that a state or local jurisdiction in which we do not charge and collect sales/use tax or other transaction taxes could assert that we should have previously been collecting such taxes in prior periods; if successful, such challenges could require us to pay substantial amounts of taxes, interest and penalties, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, national and local governments are facing deteriorating fiscal situations and tax authorities are currently reviewing the appropriate treatment of transactions and companies engaged in electronic commerce. New or revised tax laws and regulations are being passed that may subject us or our customers to additional sales, income and other taxes. In particular, there has recently been much activity and legislation as well as audits and court cases involving imposition of sales/use taxes on e-commerce transactions in several U.S. states. For example, some states are adopting statutes (sometimes colloquially referred to as “Amazon Laws”) which attribute to out-of-state vendors the in-state physical presence of a referral source, and these laws may adversely affect our business. If the vendor compensates even unrelated parties for driving business to its website (i.e., by click-through) then, in some states, there is a rebuttable presumption the vendor has nexus, which enables the state to charge sales tax on the vendor’s transactions. We use referral sources which we compensate, and there is a risk that we will have to collect sales/use taxes or terminate our relationship with important referral sources, including those based in key states such as California and New York that have adopted these so-called “Amazon Laws.” In addition to click-through nexus statutes, some states have introduced extensive and onerous reporting requirements that are burdensome and costly and could affect our business. Although the constitutionality of these “click-through” statutes and reporting requirements is being challenged on various grounds, if these laws are upheld as constitutional, such a result likely would lead to more widespread adoption of similar legislation which could further negatively impact our business. We rely on software licensed from third parties, including server software, and intellectual property rights associated with such software, that are required for the provision of our services. These licenses may be difficult to retain or the third-party software could cause errors or failures of our solutions. We rely on software licensed from third parties to offer some of our services and software solutions, including server software from Mailshell, and other third-party technology. In addition, we may need to obtain future licenses from third parties to use intellectual property rights associated with the development of our solutions, which might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any third-party software required for the development and maintenance of our solutions could result in interruptions or delays in the provision of our solutions until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business. Any errors or defects in third-party software could result in errors or an interruption in our solutions which could result in legal disputes, claims and proceedings, including class action law suits, and harm our business. 29 Table of Contents Some of our solutions contain “open source” software, which may pose increased risk to our proprietary software. We may have in the past and could in the future combine our proprietary software with certain open source software in a certain manner, which could, under certain of the open source licenses, require us to release the source code of our proprietary software. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software. We cannot be sure that all open source code is submitted by our developers to our internal review process for approval prior to its inclusion in our products. In addition, many of the risks associated with the usage of open source software may be difficult to eliminate and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. We are and could be subject to further claims for infringing third-party intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business. Because of the nature of our business, including development and acquisition of intellectual property rights and the hiring of employees formerly employed by competitors, we are and could become further subject to claims, some of which could be material, of infringement by competitors and other third parties with respect to current and future software solutions, patents, trademarks, copyrights, licenses or other intellectual property rights. In addition, we license and utilize certain third-party “proprietary” and “open source” software as part of our solutions offering. If an author or another third party that distributes such third-party or open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, required to disclose and/or provide part of the source code of our proprietary software for no fee, enjoined from the sale of our services, and/or required to comply with conditions that could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our services. To the extent that we gain greater visibility and market exposure, we may face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property rights infringement claims. Moreover, some of these claims may involve patent holding companies (non-practicing or non-operating entities) or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue of their own and against whom our own patent portfolio may therefore provide little or no deterrence. Any claims of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could damage our reputation and the value of our brand, cause us to incur substantial defense costs and distract our management and employees from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent or limit us from offering our software. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of the infringed intellectual property rights, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Alternatively, we might be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and which might not be successful. Third parties may also assert infringement claims relating to our software against our partners or customers. Any of these claims might require us to initiate or defend potentially protracted and costly litigation on their behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims were to succeed, we might be forced to pay damages on behalf of our partners or customers, which could adversely affect our business. Protection of our intellectual property rights is currently limited and any misuse of our intellectual property rights by others could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Proprietary technology used in our software is important to our success. To protect our intellectual property rights related to our software, products, services, solutions and development, we have to date focused primarily on patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and protections afforded by contractual provisions. For example, we have registered trademarks such as “AVG” and our logo in the United States, the EU and in various countries throughout the world where we currently do business or are planning to do business. 30 Table of Contents Intellectual property rights laws and regulations are uncertain. The protection from and enforcement of any intellectual property rights in the markets in which we operate are uncertain. The laws of countries in which we operate or intend to expand our operations, including China, may afford little or no protection to our patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. While we monitor the use of and respect for our intellectual property rights, policing unauthorized use of our trademarks and our patented, copyrighted and trade secret technologies and proving infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights are difficult. In addition, certain of our licenses are “click-through” licenses or are unsigned, which may render them unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. Furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the copyright, trade secret and other intellectual property rights laws in any country in which we operate or intend to expand our operations may adversely affect our ability to enforce our copyright, trade secret and other intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights and/or to determine the scope of our confidential information, intellectual property right and trade secret protection. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if third parties independently develop similar technologies to ours or otherwise gain legal access to our or similar technologies, our competitive position and brand recognition could suffer and our revenue, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Protection of trade secrets is limited. We seek to protect our software, trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by generally requiring our employees and consultant contractors to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by or providing consulting services to us. We also enter into non-disclosure agreements with our distributors, resellers and other business partners to protect our confidential and proprietary information. There can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties will not be breached, that we will be able effectively to enforce these agreements or to have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets and other proprietary information will not be disclosed or otherwise cease to be protected. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property rights and using our technology for their competitive advantage. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may encounter difficulties and uncertainties in obtaining or enforcing patents. Currently we have several patent applications pending in various jurisdictions, including the United States, the European Patent Organization and Canada, and filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty. For example, we have applied for patent protection for our LinkScanner technology, as well as our software for detection of harmful software and code analyses. We do not know whether any pending patent applications we have filed or will file in the future will result in the issuance of patents. The laws of countries in which we file for patents, including the United States, are evolving and uncertain in the software space. Moreover, any patents that have been granted to us or may be granted may be opposed, contested or designed around by a third party, or may be subject to other limitations. We therefore may not receive significant competitive advantages from any patent rights that have been or that may ultimately be granted to us. In addition to our direct sales and distribution channels, we rely on third-party distributors and resellers to sell or distribute our software. If we fail to sell or distribute our products effectively through our third-party distributors and resellers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Software sales made indirectly through third-party distributors and resellers accounted for 17.9% of our total revenue in 2014, and although it may decline, we expect this sales channel to continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue particularly as our SMB SaaS business continues to develop as this is primarily sold through distributors and resellers. We have limited control over the amount of software that these indirect sales partners purchase from us or sell on our behalf. Weakness in the end-user market could negatively 31 Table of Contents affect the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us. Furthermore, a change in the credit quality at one of our distributors or other counterparties can increase the risk that such counterparty is unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us, which could directly or indirectly (through a disruption in our distribution network) have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any material decrease in the volume of revenue generated by our indirect sales channels could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. In 2012 we began to distribute our stand-alone search product via third parties and pay them a bounty for distribution. End users adopt our stand-alone search solution and hence our dynamic search solution as a result of this distribution and we generate revenue from the search activity of these users. These deals generated a significant proportion of our platform growth in 2012. There were significant changes in the search distributions market during 2013 which were initially triggered by the Google guideline changes that became effective in February 2013. Developments in this market led us to announce our plan to gradually exit the third party search distribution business in November 2013. As of December 31, 2014 we are continuing to exit this business in a controlled manner and it represents an immaterial percentage of our business. The revenue we generated depended on the quality and volume of the search activity by our users and as this traffic declined in quality and volume, the bounties we were able to pay became worth more than the search traffic they generated and the results of our operations were negatively impacted. With the acquisition of Location Labs in 2014, we also expanded our network of third party distributors to include several mobile network operators. These mobile network operators sell the products and services of Location Labs to their own customers by promoting them under their own brands and not under the Location Labs or our brands. While we have certain contractual rights under these mobile network operator agreements, we cannot control the behavior of the operators, and the operators could make changes in their distribution, advertising, or pricing which could negatively impact our user acquisitions and revenue. While we believe we conduct appropriate due diligence on our sales partners, we may not be able to monitor their activities for regulatory or contractual compliance, which may jeopardize our reputation or our relationships with our search engine partners. Furthermore, certain national regulations could require licenses from governments or government agencies for the use of our products and these regulations may limit our penetration of certain markets by us or our indirect sales partners. For instance, we were required to obtain a business license to begin distribution of our products in China, which entailed defining the scope of our business and would require a revised license if that scope changed. China is the only jurisdiction important to our business in which we have sought a license to date, but developments such as release of new products, entry into new markets or regulatory changes in existing markets could oblige us to seek additional licenses in other jurisdictions in the future. If we violate the terms of a required license, it could cause us to lose the license, damage our reputation or require the reorganization of our distribution model. While we have standard contract terms for our third-party distributors and resellers that allow those parties the flexibility to (subject to export regulations) decide where to sell our solutions and the price at which they are sold, some of our distribution and resale contracts contain provisions relating to exclusivity or allocation of territories and/or minimum price requirements. Challenges to these exclusivity arrangements, regardless of merit, could divert management time and attention and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. This risk may be highest among third-party distribution contracts that we may seek to terminate. Any material disruption of our relationships with major providers of Internet distribution services, including Akamai and Amazon, and payment services could adversely affect our business. Third parties supply us with certain products and services that are integral to our business. For example, we depend on Akamai for the distribution of our security software, for software updates to our active users and for acceleration and caching of our Web pages. We consider the possibility of Akamai failing to be remote and we 32 Table of Contents have not developed a formal back-up or business continuity plan in the event of Akamai’s failure. If Akamai’s systems were to fail, we would be able to accommodate the distribution of our software and software updates on our own systems, but the delivery of our content would be significantly slower or we could switch to other CDN vendor. Amazon Web Services (AWS) is used as a Platform-as-a-Service for our AVG ZEN product and is a strategic platform for our future products. Our dependence on AWS is growing. These services are material to our business. Accordingly, any disruption in the relationship between us, Akamai and AWS or between us and one of our Internet payment service providers, including any disruption of service, or the existence of any dispute, may harm our business and results of operations. We are exposed to risks associated with payment card fraud and payment processing. Our customers use credit and debit cards to pay for our services and products. We may suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent payment cards. We, our payment services providers, contracted support partners, reseller network and other partners may not have the means to detect or control payment fraud, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The secure transmission of cardholders’ data and sensitive authentication data is essential to maintain customer and supplier confidence in us. Advances in technology or other developments could make it possible to compromise or breach the technology that we use to protect subscriber and transaction data. It is possible that our security measures may not prevent security breaches, and we may be unsuccessful in protecting against these potential exposures. Security breaches, whether of our system or third party systems, could significantly harm our business or our reputation. In addition, we are currently working on a project to achieve full adherence to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which is a worldwide information security standard defined by the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards Council, as required by our payment services providers. The standard was created to help payment card industry organizations that process card payments prevent payment cards fraud through increased controls around data and its exposure to compromise. If we are unable to comply with the standard, or similar standards, or if there is a perceived breach of such standards, such incidents may lead to sanctions (including fines and other penalties), claims by, and increased exposure to potential liability from banks, card holders and others and disclosure leading to public knowledge of such incidents, potentially causing reputational damage to our business. Even if we comply with all of the above regulations, we depend on payment cards authorization procedures that are conducted by third parties and beyond our control. For payment card transactions we pay interchange and other fees which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. In addition, our payment card fee may be increased by payment card companies if our chargeback rate exceeds certain maximum thresholds. If we are unable to maintain our chargeback rate at acceptable levels, we could be subject to fines and penalties and our ability to use credit debit cards as a payment mechanism may be terminated. Any fines or penalties we are required to pay could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The termination of our ability to process payments on any major payment card could significantly impair our ability to operate and grow our business. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of payment cards, and it could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted or otherwise make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept payment card payments from our customers or process or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We may be unable to obtain additional financing or generate sufficient cash flows to make additional investments or fund potential acquisitions. We may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to invest in or acquire complementary businesses, technologies, products or services. Additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to 33 Table of Contents us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our shareholders may experience further dilution of their ownership interests. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities or obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those debt securities or financing arrangements may include covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If additional financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms when required, we may be unable successfully to develop or enhance our software solutions and online services, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our indebtedness could affect our financing options and liquidity. In October 2014, we entered into a new credit agreement with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., HSBC Bank Plc and HSBC Bank USA, N.A which comprised a term loan facility of up to $200 million (“Term Loan”) and a $50 million revolving credit facility (“RCF”). In December 2014 the Term Loan was increased to $230 million. The facilities were exclusively used for the acquisition of Location Labs, and may be used for other general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions. No amount was drawn on the RCF as of December 31, 2014. This new credit facility replaced the Revolving Credit Facility of $50 million with HSBC Bank Plc, dated April 25, 2013. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to our business or the holders of our ordinary shares, including: • making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and interest rate changes; • limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and • preventing us from paying dividends on our ordinary shares or other distributions to shareholders. We are subject to debt covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and could limit our ability to grow our business. Covenants in our credit agreement impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions prohibit or limit, among other things, our incurrence of additional indebtedness, the creation of certain types of liens, mergers or consolidations, certain change in control transactions, asset sales, payment of dividends or other distributions to shareholders, investments, transactions with affiliates, or sales to users or partnerships with companies in certain countries. These restrictions could also limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. We must maintain a specified leverage ratio measured as of the end of each quarter as a financial covenant under the credit agreement. Our ability to comply with this ratio may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Under the credit agreement, a change in control in our Company, which means that a shareholder or a group of shareholders is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 35% of the total voting power of the voting stock of the Company would require mandatory prepayment of the outstanding debt. If we are unable to comply with the covenants and ratio in our credit agreement in the future, we may be in default under the agreement. A default would result in an increase in the rate of interest and may cause the loan repayment to be accelerated. This could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in the relative value of currencies against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our results of operations. At the parent company level, our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and our revenue and costs are reported in U.S. dollars. The majority of our revenue is earned in U.S. dollars while a significant portion is also earned in Euros and in other currencies, including British pounds, Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and Czech crown. 34 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our costs are incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, namely, Euro, Czech crown, British pound, Israeli shekel and Australian and Canadian dollars. We are exposed to transaction currency risk from fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and British pound, Czech crown, Israeli shekel, Australian and Canadian dollar and Euro and to a lesser extent Swiss franc, Norwegian and Danish krona and Brazilian real. In addition, we are exposed to translational risk resulting from our international sales denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars and the resulting foreign currency balances held on our balance sheet. We enter into foreign exchange contracts to hedge our transactional exposure between the U.S. dollar and other relevant currencies. However, these hedging arrangements may not fully protect us from currency risk. As a result, currently exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs in connection with our compliance obligations as a public company and as a foreign company reporting in the United States. As such public company, we implement and maintain and follow any changes in applicable laws and regulations may be required to continue to implement and maintain processes and controls due to certain laws and rules and various requirements on public companies. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, impose various requirements on public companies beyond establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls. We will need to continue to strengthen our internal procedures in a range of areas to comply with these standards. Similarly, our financial statements were prepared and will continue to be prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards as adopted by the EU and in accordance with Dutch law to comply with the Dutch statutory requirements, and since our IPO, we have prepared and will continue to prepare our financials under U.S. GAAP for purposes of our reporting as a foreign private issuer in the United States as well. Compliance with these laws and standards will continue to increase our legal, insurance and financial compliance costs and consume staff and management time, potentially harming our business and financial position. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. We must ensure that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis. Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In the first quarter of 2014, our free float exceeded and remained above $700 million at measurement date of June 30, 2014. Therefore, we no longer met the criteria to file as an “Emerging Growth Company” and consequently we lost our exemption under the JOBS Act. As such, we are required to obtain a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2014 due to material weaknesses disclosed in Item 15 of this Annual Report. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis. We are taking specific steps to enhance our internal control environment and remediate the material weaknesses, which include, but are not limited to, the following: • providing additional training to our senior management, accounting and finance employees in the applicable requirements of the financial accounting and reporting frameworks; • defining management’s risk management strategy, embedding risk management throughout the organization and establishing a risk function supported by the Risk Committee; • updating our information technology strategy to reduce the number of operating systems, to implement adequate segregation of duties, and to increase our focus on standardized solutions and preventive controls; and 35 Table of Contents • hiring and training end-to-end process owners with the appropriate expertise to review and improve the design and operating effectiveness of our processes and internal controls, including ensuring appropriate segregation of duties throughout processes. As we continue to evaluate and work to improve our internal control over financial reporting, management may decide to take additional measures to address the material weaknesses or modify the remediation steps described above. Although we plan to complete the remediation process as quickly as possible, we cannot at this time estimate how long it will take, and our initiatives may not prove to be successful. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. We may also be unable to monitor business developments on a timely basis or prevent fraud. In addition, if we are unable to successfully remediate these material weaknesses and if we are unable to produce accurate and timely financial statements, the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected and we may be unable to maintain compliance with applicable stock exchange listing requirements. Even if we successfully remediate these material weaknesses, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial processes and reporting will be effective in the future or that material weaknesses in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. Any projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risks that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with existing policies or procedures may deteriorate. Ongoing maintenance and improvement of our system of internal controls and testing and remediation of the material weaknesses will entail substantial costs. Acquisitions, our rate of growth, and changes in our business strategy and reporting have made and are expected to continue to make the implementation of effective internal control over financial reporting more challenging and costly. As part of the process of integrating the businesses we have acquired, we are also evaluating and, where appropriate, implementing internal controls, including with respect to Location Labs, which may further divert management attention, entail substantial costs and take significant time to complete. Risks relating to ownership of our ordinary shares Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile and the value of an investment in our ordinary shares may decline. Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial or operating results, the risks described above and additional factors listed below, some of which are beyond our control, may cause significant volatility in our share price. These additional factors include: • the failure of financial analysts to cover our ordinary shares or changes in financial estimates by analysts; • changes in financial estimates by financial analysts, or any failure by us to meet or exceed any of these estimates, or changes in the recommendations of any financial analysts that elect to follow our ordinary shares or the shares of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; • future sales or expected future sales of our ordinary shares; and • investor perceptions of us and the industries in which we operate. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies affected. These 36 Table of Contents broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of certain companies’ securities, securities class action litigation has been instituted against these companies. Similar litigation, if instituted against us, could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Concentration of ownership among our directors, officers and large shareholders and their affiliates may prevent new investors from influencing corporate decisions. Current members of our Management Board, our Supervisory Board and our senior management and holders of greater than 5% of our ordinary shares and their affiliates beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 28% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of February 28, 2015. As a result, these persons will be in a position to exert significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including matters such as approval of the financial statements, declarations of dividends, the appointment and removal of the members of our Management Board and our Supervisory Board, capital increases and amendments to our articles of association. In addition, one of the members of our Supervisory Board is affiliated with a holder of greater than 5% of our ordinary shares. In addition, certain shareholders’ significant shareholdings in us may have the effect of making certain transactions more difficult without the support of these shareholders and may have the effect of delaying or preventing our acquisition or other change in control. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of association may prevent or delay change-of-control transactions. Our articles of association contain provisions that may have the effect of making a takeover of our Company more difficult or less attractive, including: • the staggered four-year terms of our Supervisory Board members, as a result of which only approximately one-fourth of our Supervisory Board members will be subject to election in any one year; • a provision that our Management Board and Supervisory Board members may only be removed at the General Meeting of Shareholders by a two-thirds majority of votes cast representing at least 50% of our outstanding share capital if such removal is not proposed by our Supervisory Board; • the authorization of a class of preference shares that may be issued by our Management Board, subject to the approval of our Supervisory Board, in such a manner as to dilute the interest of any potential acquirer; • requirements that certain matters, including an amendment of our articles of association, may only be brought to our shareholders for a vote upon a proposal by our Management Board that has been approved by our Supervisory Board; and • minimum shareholding thresholds, based on nominal value, for shareholders to call General Meetings of our Shareholders or to add items to the agenda for those meetings. We are a Dutch public company with limited liability. The rights of our shareholders may be different from the rights of shareholders in companies governed by the laws of U.S. or other jurisdictions. We are a Dutch public company with limited liability (“naamloze vennootschap”). Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Netherlands. The rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our Management Board and Supervisory Board may be different from the rights and obligations of shareholders in companies governed by the laws of the U.S. or other jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our Management Board and Supervisory Board are required by Dutch law to consider the interests of our company, its shareholders, its employees and other stakeholders, in all cases with due observation of the principles of reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our shareholders. 37 Table of Contents We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, are not subject to U.S. proxy rules and are subject to Exchange Act reporting obligations that, to some extent, are more lenient and less frequent than those of a U.S. domestic public company. We report under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as a non-U.S. company with foreign private issuer status. Because we qualify as a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act and although we are subject to Dutch laws and regulations with regard to such matters and intend to furnish quarterly financial information to the SEC, we are exempt from certain provisions of the Exchange Act that are applicable to U.S. domestic public companies, including (i) the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; (ii) the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time; and (iii) the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q containing unaudited financial and other specified information, or current reports on Form 8-K, upon the occurrence of specified significant events. In addition, foreign private issuers are not required to file an Annual Report on Form 20-F until 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, while U.S. domestic issuers that are accelerated filers are required to file an Annual Report on Form 10-K within 75 days after the end of each fiscal year. Foreign private issuers are also exempt from Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure), aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information. As a result of the above, our shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are not foreign private issuers. As a foreign private issuer and as permitted by the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, we rely on certain home country governance practices rather than the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. We are a foreign private issuer. As a result, in accordance with the listing requirements of the NYSE, we rely on home country governance requirements and certain exemptions thereunder rather than relying on the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. See “Item 16G. Corporate Governance.” Accordingly, our shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are not foreign private issuers. We apply the Dutch Corporate Governance Code but do not comply with all best practice provisions of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. As a Dutch company we are subject to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, or DCGC. The DCGC contains both principles and best practice provisions for Management Boards, Supervisory Boards, shareholders and General Meetings of Shareholders, financial reporting, auditors, disclosure, compliance and enforcement standards. The DCGC applies to all Dutch companies listed on a government-recognized stock exchange, whether in the Netherlands or elsewhere, including the NYSE. The principles and best practice provisions apply to our Management Board and our Supervisory Board (in relation to role and composition, conflicts of interest and independency requirements, board committees and remuneration), shareholders and the General Meeting of Shareholders (for example, regarding anti-takeover protection and obligations of the Company to provide information to its shareholders) and financial reporting (such as external auditor and internal audit requirements). We do not comply with all best practice provisions of the DCGC. See “Item 16G. Corporate Governance.” This may affect the rights of our shareholders, who may not have the same level of protection as shareholders in a Dutch company that fully applies the DCGC. Our ordinary shares are not traded on any exchange outside the United States. Our ordinary shares are listed only in the United States on the NYSE. As a result, a holder of our ordinary shares outside the United States may not be able to effect transactions in our ordinary shares as readily as the holder may if our securities were listed on an exchange in that holder’s home jurisdiction. 38 Table of Contents We may not be able and currently have no intention to pay further dividends for the foreseeable future. Payment of future dividends may be made only if our equity exceeds the amount of the paid-in and called-up part of the issued share capital, increased by the reserves required to be maintained by law or by our articles of association. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. In addition, our credit agreement restricts the payment of dividends to holders of our ordinary shares. As a result, we currently have no intention to pay dividends. Accordingly investors should not invest in our ordinary shares with any expectation of dividend income either now or at any time in the future. Any return on investment in our ordinary shares will therefore depend upon any future appreciation in the price of our ordinary shares. Raising additional capital by issuing securities may cause dilution to existing shareholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may in the future seek the additional capital necessary to fund acquisitions through public or private equity offerings. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our existing shareholders will be diluted, unless pre-emptive rights are granted, and the terms of such securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our shareholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Certain holders of our ordinary shares may not be able to exercise pre-emptive rights and as a result may experience substantial dilution upon future issuances of ordinary shares. Holders of our ordinary shares in principle have a pre-emptive right with respect to any issue of ordinary shares or the granting of rights to subscribe for ordinary shares, unless explicitly provided otherwise in a resolution by the General Meeting of Shareholders or by a resolution of our Management Board with the approval by our Supervisory Board. Our General Meeting of Shareholders has empowered our Management Board, with the approval by our Supervisory Board, to limit or exclude pre-emptive rights on shares for a period of eighteen months from the date of our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on June 11, 2014, which could cause existing shareholders to experience substantial dilution of their interest in us. Claims of U.S. civil liabilities may not be enforceable against us. We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands and substantial portions of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, one member of our Management Board, certain members of our Supervisory Board, certain members of our senior management and certain experts named herein reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such other persons residing outside the United States, or to enforce outside the United States judgments obtained against such persons in U.S. courts in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, rights predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws. There is no treaty between the United States and the Netherlands for the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the U.S. federal securities laws, would not be enforceable in the Netherlands unless the underlying claim is re-litigated before a Dutch court of competent jurisdiction. Under current practice however, a Dutch court may be expected to recognize the binding effect of a final, conclusive and enforceable money judgment of a federal or state court in the United States without re-examination or re-litigation of the substantive matters adjudicated thereby, if (i) that judgment resulted from legal proceedings 39 Table of Contents compatible with Dutch notions of due process, (ii) that judgment does not contravene public policy of the Netherlands and (iii) the jurisdiction of the U.S. federal or state court has been based on internationally accepted principles of private international law. Based on the foregoing, there can be no assurance that U.S. investors will be able to enforce against us or members of our Management Board or Supervisory Board, officers or certain experts named herein who are residents of the Netherlands or countries other than the United States any judgments obtained in U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, there is doubt as to whether a Dutch court would impose civil liability on us, the members of our Management Board or Supervisory Board, our officers or certain experts named herein in an original action predicated solely upon the U.S. federal securities laws brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the Netherlands against us or such members, officers or experts, respectively. We may not be able to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting our shareholders to Dutch withholding tax. Dutch dividend withholding tax may be levied on dividends and similar distributions made by us to our shareholders at the statutory rate of 15%. If dividend distributions are structured as a repayment of capital or a repurchase of shares, Dutch withholding tax may still be due at 15%. Such repayment of capital or repurchase of shares will be exempt from dividend withholding tax only in limited circumstances. See also “Item 10. Additional Information – E. Taxation” below. 