Item 1A Risk Factors The risk factors listed herein under the heading "Risks Related to Our Company" similarly apply to our subsidiaries after the Combination. Risks Related to Our Company Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009 have been prepared under the assumption that we will continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued their report dated June 14, 2012, in connection with the audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 that included an explanatory paragraph describing the existence of conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to our disagreement with our joint venture partner and overall impact on our liquidity. This situation and the fact that we have received this "going concern qualification" from our independent registered public accounting firm will likely make it more difficult for us to raise capital on favorable terms and could hinder, to some extent, our operations. Additionally, if we are not able to continue as a going concern, it is possible stockholders may lose part or all of their investment. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 38 Table of Contents We have entered into a Heads of Agreement with Hess to divide our joint venture assets and resolve our disagreements with Hess relating to our joint venture. Failure to consummate the transactions outlined in the Hess Heads of Agreement by July 31, 2012 will constitute an event of default under our $100 million senior secured notes. In order to resolve our disagreements with Hess relating to our joint venture, we have entered into a Heads of Agreement with Hess that will divide our joint venture assets and provide for cash payments totaling $70 million from Hess to the Company. Upon consummation of the transactions contemplated by the HoA, we will receive $70 million from Hess in addition to the $15 million received from Hess on June 8, 2012 for the amended EDA that eliminated Hess's well carry obligations in the Cotulla Prospect Area. Consummation of the transactions outlined in the Hess Heads of Agreement is subject to execution of definitive documentation providing for such division of assets. Consummation of the transactions under the Hess Heads of Agreement will require the consent of the holders of our $100 million senior secured notes, which consent we have obtained. We will apply approximately $36.5 million of the funds we will obtain upon consummation of the transactions outlined in the Hess Heads of Agreement towards prepayment (including an associated fee) of a portion of our $100 million senior secured notes. Our failure to consummate the transactions outlined in the Hess Heads of Agreement and make such prepayment by July 31, 2012, will constitute an event of default under our $100 million senior secured notes, giving the holders of these notes the right to accelerate payment of these notes. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our oil and gas reserves. The oil and gas exploration and development industry is capital intensive. We through our subsidiaries ZaZa LLC and Toreador, expect to continue making substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the purpose of exploration, development, production and acquisition of, oil and gas reserves. Prior to the Combination, ZaZa LLC financed capital expenditures primarily with cash generated by operations, loans and capital contributions from its current members and contributions, bonus payments and cost reimbursements by Hess pursuant to the Exploration and Development Agreement between Hess and ZaZa LLC, which we refer to as the EDA. Toreador has also depended on financing from Hess pursuant to the Hess Investment Agreement. As a result of our disagreements with Hess, we expect that we will need to find additional sources of capital to carry out our business plans. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables that may or may not be within our control, including: •the level of oil and gas we are able to produce from existing wells; •the prices at which our oil and gas production is sold; •the results of our development programs associated with proved and unproved reserves; •our ability to acquire, locate and produce new economically recoverable reserves; •exhaustion of funds we expect to obtain upon consummation of the transactions outlined in the Hess Heads of Agreement; •global credit and securities markets; and •the ability and willingness of lenders and investors to provide capital and the cost of that capital. We may need to raise capital to finance our drilling operations. If financing and joint venture partnerships are not available on acceptable terms or at all, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels or to implement our strategy, including executing on our portfolio of drilling opportunities or expanding our existing portfolio. We may, from 39 Table of Contents time to time, need to seek additional financing. There can be no assurance as to the availability or terms of any additional or alternative financing. The failure to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms could result in an inability to implement our strategy to purchase additional oil and gas properties and a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of its prospects, which in turn could lead to possible write-downs in the carrying value of its properties, a material decline in our oil and gas reserves as well as its revenues and results of operations. If, as expected, we consummate the transactions outlined in the Hess Heads of Agreement, we may need to find alternative sources of capital to fund property acquisitions, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Pursuant to the EDAs, Hess has been required to fund all of the acquisition costs for acquiring new properties in the Eagle Ford shale. Hess has previously provided financing for the acquisition of approximately 121,000 gross acres. Upon consummation of the transactions outlined in the Hess Heads of Agreement, Hess will no longer fund any portion of our property acquisitions. As a result, the Company may need to find alternative sources of capital to carry out our business plan, which may be on less favorable terms. The failure to identify acceptable alternative financing could prevent us from acquiring new properties in the Eagle Ford shale and materially adversely affect our operations and prospects. If, as expected, we consummate the transactions outlined in the Hess Heads of Agreement, we may need to find alternative sources of capital to fund drilling operations, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Pursuant to the EDA, Hess has been required to fund all of the costs associated with wells drilled in the Eagle Ford shale, subject to a cap on such number of "carried" wells in each Eagle Ford shale prospect area. If the funds we expect to receive upon consummation of the transactions outlined in the Hess Heads of Agreement are not sufficient to fund our anticipated drilling operations, we may need to find alternative sources of capital to fund these wells. The failure to identify acceptable alternative financing to fund these wells could materially adversely affect our operations and prospects, including potentially resulting in the reversion of certain portions of our acreage to the lessors. If we are unable to find a joint venture partner or partners in the Eaglebine to finance acquisition and development, we may need to find alternative sources of capital, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We are currently planning to have discussions with potential joint venture partners to acquire and develop properties in the Eaglebine trend. ZaZa LLC currently holds approximately 98,500 net acres in the Eaglebine, but hopes to expand to 100,000 net acres in the aggregate over time. There can be no assurances that we will identify a joint venture partner, that such partner will provide funding on acceptable terms to develop the existing properties or acquire new properties, or that we will be able to increase our net acreage in the Eaglebine. If we cannot identify a joint venture partner, we will need to utilize cash flow from other operations or will need to find alternative sources of capital to finance operations in the Eaglebine, which may slow the acquisition and development of the Eaglebine properties and have a material adverse effect on our operations and prospects. Joint venture agreements that we may enter into could present a number of challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are seeking a joint venture partner in the Eaglebine, and assuming we are successful in consummating the transactions outlined in the Hess Heads of Agreement, we expect to seek a joint venture partner or partners for our Eagle Ford properties. Joint venture arrangements typically present 40 Table of Contents financial, managerial and operational challenges, including potential disputes, liabilities or contingencies and may involve risks not otherwise present when exploring and developing properties directly, including, for example: •the joint venture partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions, including the acquisition of oil and gas properties; •the joint venture partners may not pay their share of the joint venture's obligations, potentially leaving us liable for their share of such obligations; •the joint venture partners may have options to assume the operation of the properties acquired by the joint venture; •the joint venture partners may terminate the agreements under certain circumstances; •we may incur liabilities or losses as a result of an action taken by the joint venture partners; and •disputes between us and the joint venture partners may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses. The risks described above or the failure to continue any joint venture or to resolve disagreements with the joint venture partners could materially adversely affect our ability to transact the business that is the subject of such joint venture, which would in turn negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to resolve our disagreements with Hess by consummating the transactions outlined in the Hess Heads of Agreement, we may proceed to arbitration which could result in our owing additional amounts to Hess. Hess and ZaZa have recently had disagreements with each other relating to our joint venture. The joint venture agreements provide that disagreements are resolved through arbitration rather than litigation. The parties have entered into the Hess Heads of Agreement to resolve these disagreements. If we are unable to consummate the transactions outlined in the Hess Heads of Agreement and, as a result, we proceed to arbitration and an adverse finding is issued, we may be required to make certain payments to Hess, which would adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. Our indebtedness and near term obligations could materially adversely affect our financial health, limit our ability to finance capital expenditures and future acquisitions and prevent us from executing our business plan. We have $100 million outstanding in aggregate principal under our Senior Notes and we expect to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our level of indebtedness has, or could have, important consequences to our business, because: •a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; •it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for acquisitions, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes; •it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and •we may be substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a relative competitive disadvantage and make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. 41 Table of Contents In addition, the terms of our Senior Notes restrict, and the terms of any future indebtedness, including any future credit facility, may restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness because of debt or financial covenants we are, or may be, required to meet. Under the terms of our Senior Notes, we may not incur debt in excess of 3.5 times our EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization), except for $50 million in reserve-based lending and other permitted debt. Thus, we may not be able to obtain sufficient capital to grow our business or implement our business strategy and may lose opportunities to acquire interests in oil properties or related businesses because of our inability to fund such growth. Our ability to comply with restrictions and covenants, including those in our Senior Notes or in any future debt agreement, is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. Our Senior Notes also contain restrictions on the operation of our business, such as the sale and acquisition of assets, which may limit our business plan. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants could result in a default, which could permit the holders of our Senior Notes to accelerate repayments and foreclose on the collateral securing the indebtedness. Toreador may not be able to maintain or renew its existing exploration permits or exploitation concessions or obtain new ones, which could reduce its proved reserves. Toreador does not hold title to its properties in France but holds exploration permits and exploitation concessions granted by the French government. Under French law, each exploration permit is an exclusive right to explore for liquid and/or gaseous hydrocarbons and requires Toreador to commit expenditures of a certain amount and is subject to renewal being granted after the initial term of between three to five years. Renewal can be granted twice, each time for a similar duration as the initial term and based on a similar financial commitment. Under French law, each exploitation concession is subject to renewal after an initial term of up to 50 years. Renewal is subject to having the requisite operational capabilities to continue operations in accordance with French regulations. Toreador currently holds ten exploration permits and has filed renewal applications for four exploration permits that expired in 2010 or 2011 (Aufferville, Mairy, Rigny le Ferron and Joigny). These renewal applications are currently pending with the French government. However, the revised French regulations are unclear as to whether such exploration will still be possible after 15 months following the date of filing of the renewal application. Under previous regulations, which were not repealed in their entirety, the lack of answer to a renewal application for more than 15 months following the date of filing of the renewal application was construed as an implicit refusal to grant the renewal of an exploration permit. For all four expired permits (other than the Mairy permit), 15 months have elapsed since the submission of a renewal application (and, in the case of the Mairy permit, the 15 month period will elapse in May 2012). Although we believe that, under revised French regulations, we are permitted to operate under expired permits until an express decision is issued with respect to their renewal, this position is not entirely free from doubt. Toreador currently holds three exploitation concessions covering two producing oil areas in the Paris Basin—the Neocomian Complex (the Chateaurenard and St. Firmin Des Bois concession) and Charmottes fields (the Charmottes concession, producing from the Dogger and Trias horizons). The production from these oil fields currently represents substantially all of Toreador's sales and other operating revenue. Toreador obtained a renewal of the Chateaurenard and St. Firmin Des Bois concessions in February 2011, extending the expiration date of each to January 1, 2036. Toreador filed a renewal application in February 2011 for the Charmottes concession, which concession expires in October 2013. Toreador has not yet received a response as to whether its Charmottes concession will be renewed. There can be no assurance that Toreador will be able to renew any of its ten exploration permits or concessions when they expire, convert exploration permits into exploitation concessions or obtain additional permits or concessions in the future. If Toreador does not satisfy the French government that 42 Table of Contents Toreador has the financial and technical capacities necessary to operate under such permits or concessions, such permits or concessions may be withdrawn and/or not renewed. If Toreador cannot renew some or all of these permits or concessions when they expire or convert exploration permits into exploitation concessions, Toreador will not be able to include the proved reserves associated with the permit or concession and Toreador will be unable to engage in production to recover reserves, which production currently represents substantially all of its revenue. Any such negative developments with respect to Toreador's permits would have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct its business. Although Toreador has historically reported its proved reserves assuming that the permits will be extended in due course, the SEC may take the view that Toreador's ability to renew and extend its permits past their current expiration dates is not sufficiently certain for us to include the reserves that may be produced post-expiration in our total proved reserves. Although Toreador has previously been able to provide support to the SEC regarding the likelihood of extension, no assurance can be given that the SEC will allow us to continue to include these additional reserves in Toreador's proved reserves. Our operations are subject to currency fluctuation risks. We currently have operations involving the U.S. dollar and Euro, and we are subject to fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the Euro. While our oil sales are calculated on a U.S. dollar basis, our expenditures are in Euro and we are exposed to the risk that the values of our French assets will decrease and that the amounts of our French liabilities will increase. These currency fluctuations, including the recent fluctuations, may adversely affect our results of operations. We do not currently hedge our exposure to currency fluctuations. Toreador's operations are in France and Toreador has previously operated in other international jurisdictions, and we are subject to political, economic and legal risks and other uncertainties. Toreador's operations are in France and Toreador has previously operated in other international jurisdictions, including through joint venture arrangements with parties in various international jurisdictions. We are, and have been, subject to the following risks and uncertainties that can affect our international operations adversely: •the risk of expropriation, nationalization, war, revolution, border disputes, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, and import, export and transportation regulations and tariffs; •taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims; •exchange controls, currency fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of non-U.S. government sovereignty over international operations; •laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment; •the possibility of being subjected to the exclusive jurisdiction of non-U.S. courts in connection with legal disputes and the possible inability to subject non-U.S. persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and •the possibility of restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital from foreign countries. Further, our non-U.S. operations and international business relationships are subject to laws and regulations that may restrict activities involving restricted countries, organizations, entities and persons that have been identified as unlawful actors or that are subject to U.S. economic sanctions. If we are not in compliance with any such applicable laws and regulations or U.S. economic sanctions, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and other remedial measures. 43 Table of Contents Title to the properties in which ZaZa LLC has an interest may be impaired by title defects. ZaZa LLC generally obtains title opinions on significant properties that it drills or acquires. Additionally, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. Generally, under the terms of the operating agreements affecting its properties, any monetary loss is to be borne by all parties to any such agreement in proportion to their interests in such property. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which ZaZa LLC holds an interest, we could suffer a material financial loss. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, raw materials, supplies, personnel and oil field services could materially adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within its budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, raw materials (particularly sand, cement and other proppants), supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment, raw materials and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. If oil and gas prices increase in the future, increasing levels of exploration, development and production could result in response to these stronger prices, and as a result, the demand and the costs of oilfield services, drilling rigs, raw materials, supplies and equipment could increase, while the quality of these services and supplies may suffer. In addition, our exploration, development and production operations also require local access to large quantities of water supplies and disposal services for produced water in connection with our hydraulic fracture stimulations due to prohibitive transportation costs. Existing shortages of drilling rig service providers for pressure pumping and other services required for well completion in the Eagle Ford shale have delayed our development and production operations and caused us to incur additional expenditures that were in excess of those provided for in its capital budget. We cannot determine the magnitude or length of these shortages or future shortages or price increases, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, shortages and price increases could restrict our ability to drill wells and conduct ordinary operations. Drilling for and producing oil and gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our success will depend on the results of its exploration, development and production activities. Oil and gas exploration, development and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or gas production. Decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data, and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or inaccurate or subject to varying interpretations or uncertainty. Costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Furthermore, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, and such work stoppage may not be covered by our insurance, including: •shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; •pressure or irregularities in geological formations; •equipment failures or accidents; •the joint venture partners may not pay their share of the joint venture's obligations, potentially leaving us liable for their share of such obligations; 44 Table of Contents •the joint venture partners may have options to assume the operation of the properties acquired by the joint venture; •the joint venture partners may terminate the agreements under certain circumstances; •we may incur liabilities or losses as a result of an action taken by the joint venture partners; and •disputes between us and the joint venture partners may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses. The risks described above or the failure to continue any joint venture or to resolve disagreements with the joint venture partners could materially adversely affect our ability to transact the business that is the subject of such joint venture, which would in turn negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Numerous uncertainties will be inherent in our estimates of oil and gas reserves and estimated reserve quantities, and the present value calculations presented in the future relating to such reserves may not be accurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will affect materially the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and cash flows attributable to such reserves, including factors beyond our engineers' control (or the third party preparing the reserve report). Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of the available data, assumptions regarding future oil and gas prices, expenditures for future development and exploration activities, engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. In addition, accurately estimating reserves in shale formations such as ours can be even more difficult than estimating reserves in more traditional hydrocarbon bearing formations given the complexities of the projected decline curves and economics of shale gas wells. Reserves and future cash flows may be subject to material downward or upward revisions, based upon production history, development and exploration activities and prices of oil and gas. In addition, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves referred to in any reserve report will not necessarily be the actual current market value of our estimated oil and gas reserves at such time. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from its proved reserves using the un-weighted arithmetic average of the first day of the month for each month within a twelve month period. Unless we replace our reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Producing oil and gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Decline rates are typically greatest early in the productive life of a well. Estimates of the decline rate of an oil or gas wells, and those in shale formations, in particular are inherently imprecise, and are less precise with respect to new or emerging oil and gas formations with limited production histories than for more developed formations with established production histories. Our production levels and the reserves that we may recover from our wells will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated. Thus, our future oil and gas reserves and production and, therefore, our future cash flow and results of operations are highly dependent upon our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current properties and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves or future production at acceptable costs. If we are 45 Table of Contents unable to replace our current or future production, our cash flows and the value of our reserves may decrease, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are concentrated in two geographic areas, which increases our exposure to many of the risks enumerated herein. Currently, ZaZa LLC's operations are highly concentrated in the Eagle Ford shale and the Eaglebine and Toreador's operations are highly concentrated in the Paris Basin. This concentration increases the potential impact that many of the risks stated herein may have upon our ability to perform. For example, we have greater exposure to regulatory actions impacting Texas and France, natural disasters in the geographic area, competition for equipment, services and materials available in the area and access to infrastructure and markets. All of Toreador's revenues are currently attributable to its properties in the Paris Basin in France. Any disruption in production, development or its ability to sell oil in France would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. All of Toreador's sales revenues are currently attributable to its properties in the Paris Basin in France. Toreador depends on third parties in France for the transportation and refining of our oil production. Any disruption in production, development or its ability to produce and sell oil in France would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If production of oil in the Paris Basin were disrupted or curtailed, or in the case of labor or other disruptions affecting French refineries, transportation or other infrastructure, our cash flows and revenues would be significantly reduced. We have historically depended on a few customers and a loss of any customer or a decrease in demand would adversely affect our business and operating results. Our customer base is highly concentrated. Since ZaZa LLC began producing crude oil in commercial quantities in 2011, Hess has sold the crude oil produced by the joint venture to two major purchasers, Shell Oil and Superior Oil Company, pursuant to an oral agreement between Hess and ZaZa LLC. Under this oral agreement, Hess markets all of the crude oil produced by the Hess joint venture and remits payment to ZaZa LLC for its share of such sales, but does not provide detail of what percentage is sold to each of these producers. After the expected consummation of the transactions outlined in the Hess Heads of Agreement, we expect that revenue from a small number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of ZaZa LLC's revenue for the foreseeable future. For the year ended December 31, 2011, Total accounted for all of Toreador's revenues from oil production in France. The contract with Total in 1996 (then Elf Antar) automatically renews for one-year periods unless, notice of termination is given at least six months in advance. The loss of any of these customers or a decrease in demand, and the related impact on our future anticipated revenue, would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to replace the business from these customers. In addition, this type of loss could cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations because our expenses are fixed in the short term and its sales and development cycle to obtain new customers is long. Hedging activities may require us to make significant payments that are not offset by sales of production and may prevent us from benefiting from increases in oil prices. ZaZa LLC has not historically entered into hedging transactions. Toreador has, and we may in the future, enter into various hedging transactions for a portion of our production in an attempt to reduce our exposure to the volatility of oil prices. In a typical hedge transaction, we will have the right to receive from the counterparty to the hedge the excess of the fixed price specified in the hedge over a 46 Table of Contents floating price based on a market index, multiplied by the quantity hedged. If the floating price exceeds the fixed price, we will be required to pay the counterparty this difference multiplied by the quantity hedged. In such case, we will be required to pay the difference regardless of whether we have sufficient production to cover the quantities specified in the hedge. Significant reductions in production at times when the floating price exceeds the fixed price could require us to make payments under the hedge agreements even though such payments are not offset by sales of production. Hedging also could prevent us from receiving the full advantage of increases in oil prices above the fixed amount specified in the hedge. We may not be able to obtain access to pipelines, gas gathering, transmission, storage and processing facilities to market our oil and gas production and our ability to sell our production and/or receive market prices for our production may be materially adversely affected by transportation capacity constraints and interruptions. The marketing of oil and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. If there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these systems were unavailable to us, the price offered for our production could be significantly depressed, or we could be forced to shut-in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility. We also rely (and expect to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transmit and sell our oil and gas production. Our plans to develop our oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transmission, storage or processing facilities to us, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. If the amount of oil, gas or condensate being produced by us and others exceeds the capacity of the various transportation pipelines and gathering systems currently available in our operating areas, it will be necessary for new transportation pipelines and gathering systems to be built. Or, in the case of oil and condensate, it will be necessary for us to rely more heavily on trucks to transport our production, which is more expensive and less efficient than transportation by pipeline. Currently, we anticipate that additional pipeline capacity will be required in the Eagle Ford shale to transport oil and condensate production, which increased substantially during 2011. The construction of new pipelines and gathering systems is capital intensive and construction may be postponed, interrupted or cancelled in response to changing economic conditions and the availability and cost of capital. In addition, capital constraints could limit our ability to build gathering systems to transport our production to transportation pipelines. In such event, costs to transport our production may increase materially or we might have to shut-in its wells awaiting a pipeline connection or capacity and/or sell its production at much lower prices than market or than we currently project, which would materially adversely affect our results of operation. A portion of our production may also be interrupted, or shut-in, from time to time for numerous other reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, loss of pipeline or gathering system access, field labor issues or strikes, or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could materially adversely affect our cash flow. Our identified drilling location inventories are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of its future multi-year drilling activities on its existing acreage. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil and 47 Table of Contents gas prices, negotiation of agreements with third parties, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services and personnel and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities, if the potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if it will be able to economically produce oil or gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from our current expectations, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have resources that are greater than ours. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and gas and securing equipment and trained personnel. Our competitors include major and large independent oil and gas companies that possess financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than our resources. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties at a lower cost and more quickly than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Larger competitors may be better able to withstand sustained periods of unsuccessful drilling and absorb the burden of changes in laws and regulations more easily than we can, which could materially adversely affect our competitive position. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. A failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows and future growth. Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to attract and retain personnel with the technical expertise, specialized knowledge and training, skills and experience required for our business. An inability to sufficiently staff our operations or the loss of the services of one or more members of its senior management or of numerous employees with technical skills could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows and future growth. We are currently reviewing employment arrangements with certain of our senior executives. While we may come to terms with them, and while a number of consultants have consulting agreements with us, there can be no assurances that any of them will remain with us. Shortage and competition in hydraulic fracturing services could impede our ability to develop our shale plays. The unavailability or high cost of high pressure pumping services (or hydraulic fracturing services), chemicals, proppant, water, and related services and equipment could limit our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within its budget. Our industry is experiencing a growing emphasis on the exploitation and development of shale gas and shale oil resource plays, which are dependent on hydraulic fracturing for economically successful development. Hydraulic fracturing in shale plays requires high pressure pumping service crews. A shortage of service crews or proppant, chemical, or water, especially if this shortage occurred in South Texas, could materially and adversely affect our operations and the timeliness of executing its development plans within its budget. ZaZa LLC does not own all of the land on which its transportation pipelines and gathering and treating systems are located, which could materially disrupt its operations. ZaZa LLC does not own all of the land on which its gathering and treating systems have been constructed, and ZaZa LLC is therefore subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. ZaZa LLC obtains the rights to construct and operate its gathering and treating systems on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. ZaZa LLC's loss of these rights, through its inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 48 Table of Contents Our property acquisition strategy could fail or present unanticipated problems for our business in the future, which could materially adversely affect our ability to make property acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits of those acquisitions. Our growth strategy includes acquiring oil and gas properties. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or finance and complete any particular acquisition successfully. Furthermore, acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: •diversion of management's attention; •ability or impediments to conducting thorough due diligence activities; •an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements; •the validity of our assumptions about reserves, future production, revenues, capital expenditures, and operating costs, including synergies; •a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity, if any, to finance acquisitions; •a significant increase in interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; •the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses, or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which indemnity is inadequate; and •the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of oil and gas properties, asset devaluation, or restructuring charges. Our decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses, and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Also, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition given time constraints imposed by sellers. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully access their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. We face risks associated with hurricanes and other natural disasters in connection with our operations near coastal areas in Texas. A portion of our oil and gas properties are located near coastal areas of the Texas Gulf Coast. As a result, in the event of damage due to hurricanes, tropical storms, flooding or similar natural disasters, we could be subject to production curtailments in the future resulting from hurricane damage to certain fields or, even in the event that producing fields are not damaged, production could be curtailed due to damage to facilities and equipment owned by oil and gas purchasers, or vendors and suppliers. Access to water to conduct hydraulic fracturing may not be available if water sources become scarce. The availability of sources of water is crucial to conduct hydraulic fracturing. Approximately 80,000-100,000 gallons of water are necessary for drilling and completing one well in the Eagle Ford shale and in the Eaglebine. Texas is currently experiencing a severe drought that has limited the water supplies that are necessary to conduct hydraulic fracturing. We have been sourcing our water from deeper aquifers that have not yet been impacted by the drought. We can make no assurances that 49 Table of Contents sufficient water resources will be available in the short or long term to carry out our current business plan. Risks Related to Our Industry Volatile oil and gas prices could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our most significant market risk is the pricing of oil and gas. Management expects energy prices to remain volatile and unpredictable. Moreover, oil and gas prices depend on factors that are outside of our control, including: •actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and state controlled oil companies relating to oil prices and production controls; •impact of energy conservation efforts; •consumer demand; •domestic and foreign governmental regulations, actions and taxes; •refining capacity; •seasonal variations in oil and gas prices; •economic and energy infrastructure disruptions caused by actual or threatened acts of war, or terrorist activities; •weather conditions, such as hurricanes, including energy infrastructure disruptions resulting from those conditions and natural disasters; •changes in the global oil and gas supply, demand and inventories; •changes in domestic gas supply, demand and inventories; •the price and quantity of foreign imports of oil and gas; •the price and availability of liquefied gas imports; •political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing and gas producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa; •general economic conditions in the United Stated and worldwide; •the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; •technological advances affecting energy production and consumption; and •the price and availability of alternative fuels. Further, oil and gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relation to each other. Lower oil and gas prices not only decrease revenues on a per unit basis, but also may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can economically produce. Lower prices could also negatively impact estimates of our proved reserves. Our revenues, profitability and cash flow depend upon the price of and demand for oil and gas, and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. If oil and gas prices decrease or exploration efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to write-down the capitalized cost of individual oil and gas properties. A write-down of the capitalized cost of individual oil and gas properties could occur when oil and gas prices are low or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved oil and gas reserves, if operating costs or development costs increase over prior estimates, or if exploratory drilling is unsuccessful. 50 Table of Contents We use the successful efforts accounting method. All property acquisition costs and costs of exploratory and development wells are capitalized when incurred, pending the determination of whether proved reserves are discovered. If proved reserves are not discovered with an exploratory well, the costs of drilling the well are expensed. All geological and geophysical costs on exploratory prospects are expensed as incurred. The capitalized costs of our proved oil and gas properties, on a field-by-field basis, may exceed the estimated undiscounted future cash flows of that field. If so, we will adjust the carrying value of the field to its fair value in the current period. The factors used to determine fair value include, but are not limited to, estimates of reserves, future commodity prices, future production estimates, anticipated capital expenditures, and a discount rate commensurate with the risk associated with realizing the expected cash flows projected. Unproved properties are reviewed to determine if there has been an impairment of the carrying value, with any such impairment charged to expense. Given the complexities associated with oil and gas reserves estimates and the history of price volatility in the oil and gas market, events may arise that will require us to record an impairment of our oil and gas properties and there can be no assurance that such impairments will not be required in the future nor that they will not be material. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and gas operations. Oil and gas exploration, drilling and production activities are subject to numerous operating risks, including the possibility of: •blowouts, fires and explosions; •personal injuries and death; •uninsured or underinsured losses; •unanticipated, abnormally pressured formations; •uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids; •mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapses; and •environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater contamination. Any of these operating hazards could cause damage to properties, serious injuries, fatalities, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs, and other environmental damages, which could expose us to liabilities. The payment of any of these liabilities could reduce, or even eliminate, the funds available for exploration, development, and acquisition or could result in a loss of our properties. We are not fully insured against all risks, including development and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, our insurance policies provide limited coverage for losses or liabilities relating to sudden and accidental pollution, but not for other types of pollution. Our insurance might be inadequate to cover our liabilities. Our energy package is written on reasonably standard terms and conditions that are generally available to the exploration and production industry. The insurance market in general and the energy insurance market in particular have been difficult markets over the past several years. Insurance costs could increase in the future as the insurance industry adjusts to difficult exposures and we may decrease coverage and retain more risk to mitigate future cost increases. If we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we incur a liability for a risk at a time when we do not have liability insurance, then our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 51 Table of Contents We are subject to regulations that are evolving and may cause it to incur substantial costs. Our activities are subject to federal, state, regional and local laws and regulations. Extensive laws, regulations and rules regulate activities and operations in the oil and gas industry. For example, matters subject to regulation and the types of permits required include: •drilling permits; •water discharge and disposal permits for drilling operations; •the amounts and types of substances and materials that may be released into the environment; •drilling and operating bonds; •environmental matters and reclamation; •spacing of wells; •the use of underground injection wells, which affects the disposal of water from its wells; •occupational safety and health; •unitization and pooling of properties; •air quality, noise levels and related permits; •rights-of-way and easements; •reports concerning operations to regulatory authorities; •calculation and payment of royalties; •gathering, transportation and marketing of oil and gas; •taxation; and •waste disposal. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for: •personal injuries; •property damage; •oil spills; •discharge or disposal of hazardous materials; •well reclamation costs; •surface remediation and clean-up costs; •fines and penalties; •natural resource damages; and •other environmental protection and damages issues. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations also increase the costs to plan, permit, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil and gas wells. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from applicable federal, state and local authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits for producing and water injection wells, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well, or the receipt of a permit with excessive conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to explore or develop its properties. Additionally, the oil and gas regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and 52 Table of Contents managerial costs to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our profitability. Furthermore, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage to larger companies in its industry that can spread these additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating area. Any or all of these contingencies could delay or halt our drilling activities or the construction of ancillary facilities necessary for production, which would prevent us from developing its property interests as planned. Conditions, delays or restrictions imposed on the management of groundwater produced during drilling could severely limit its operations or make them uneconomic. Changes in laws and regulations could affect our costs of operations, production levels, royalty obligations, price levels, environmental requirements, and other aspects of our business, including our general profitability. We are unable to predict changes to existing laws and regulations. For example, in response to the April 2010 fire and explosion onboard the semisubmersible drilling rig Deepwater Horizon, and the resulting oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, the federal government has limited certain drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. While we do not conduct any offshore activities, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the "EPA," has recently focused on public concerns about the risk of water contamination and public health problems from drilling and hydraulic fracturing activities. This renewed focus could lead to additional federal and state regulations affecting the oil and gas industry. There can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not materially adversely affect our business and operations, including that we may be required to suspend drilling operations or shut-in production pending compliance. Additional regulations or other changes to or reinterpretations of existing laws and regulations could significantly impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial position and future growth. Environmental matters and costs can be significant. Our oil and gas exploration and production operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing health and safety aspects of our operations, the discharge of materials into the environment, the generation, storage, transportation and handling of hazardous materials or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations including the acquisition of a permit before conducting drilling or underground injection activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, and the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of our operations due to our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and wastewater discharges related to its operations, and as a result of historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. The exploration and production of oil and gas involves many risks concerning equipment and human operational problems that could lead to leaks or spills of petroleum products. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to strict, joint and several liability for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination or whether the operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which our wells are drilled and facilities where ZaZa's petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with 53 Table of Contents environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property or natural resource damages. Contamination of groundwater by oil and gas drilling, production and related operations may result in fines, penalties, and remediation costs. In addition, the risk of accidental spills or releases could expose us to significant liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste control, handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on its own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Possible legislation and regulations related to global warming and climate change could have a material adverse effect on our operations and the demand for oil and gas. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases, or "GHGs," present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gasses are contributing to the warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA recently adopted regulations under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act that require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and that regulate emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources, effective January 2, 2011. The EPA has published its final rule to address the permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or "PSD," and Title V permitting programs, pursuant to which these permitting programs have been "tailored" to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources subject to permitting first. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to meet "best available control technology" standards, which will be established by the states or, in some instances, by the EPA on a case-by-case basis. The EPA's rules relating to emissions of GHGs from large stationary sources of emissions are currently subject to a number of legal challenges, but the federal courts have thus far declined to issue any injunctions to prevent the EPA from implementing or requiring state environmental agencies to implement the rules. Although our current operations do not require PSD or Title V air permits and are not affected by the tailoring rule, the rule may affect us in the future as its operations grow. Finally, the EPA is considering additional rulemaking to apply these requirements to broader classes of emission sources by 2012, which may apply to some of our facilities. These EPA rulemakings could materially adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities. As a result of these regulatory initiatives, our operating costs may increase in compliance with these programs. The EPA has also adopted regulations requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States including certain onshore and offshore oil and gas production facilities, which may include certain of our operations, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. In addition, Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. These allowances would be expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or to comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results 54 Table of Contents of operations. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Recent legislative proposals could materially lessen the economic viability of domestic exploration and production companies, including us. The budgetary proposals of the Obama Administration, if enacted into law by Congress, could have a material adverse impact on the domestic oil and gas industry and on exploration and production companies in particular. The proposals would eliminate the so called "oil and gas company preferences" and raise other taxes on the industry. The proposed budget would eliminate tax mechanisms critical to capital formation for drilling, such as expensing of intangible drilling costs and eliminating the percentage depletion allowance. This, or similar legislation, if enacted, would have a significant adverse impact on domestic drilling for oil and gas. The proposals also seek to eliminate the deduction for certain U.S. production activities and extend the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. The proposed budget would also charge producers user fees for processing permits to drill on federal lands and increase royalty rates of minerals produced from federal lands. While the budget as proposed will not be adopted by the current congress, some of the proposals will likely be discussed by the new bipartisan committee recently authorized to make proposals to reduce the federal debt. We cannot predict the outcome of the deliberations by this committee or new budgets or other legislation that will be proposed in the coming years, but the enactment of any of these proposals or similar proposals or changes to U.S. federal income tax law would likely adversely affect the domestic oil and gas exploration and production business and affect our results of operations and financial condition. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and inability to book future reserves. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into rock formations to stimulate hydrocarbon (oil and gas) production. We engage third parties to provide hydraulic fracturing or other well stimulation services to us in connection with several wells or proposed wells for which we are the operator. We find that the use of hydraulic fracturing is necessary to produce commercial quantities of oil and gas from many reservoirs where we have significant acreage. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. However, Congress is currently considering two companion bills in connection with the proposed "Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act," or the "FRAC Act." If enacted, the bills would repeal an exemption in the federal SDWA for the underground injection of hydraulic fracturing fluids near drinking water sources and require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Sponsors of the FRAC Act have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process may be adversely impacting drinking water supplies. If enacted, the legislation would result in additional regulatory burdens, including requiring the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process to state and federal regulatory authorities, who would then make this information publicly available. The availability of this information could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. Further, if enacted, the FRAC Act could result in additional regulatory burdens such as permitting, construction, financial assurance, monitoring, recordkeeping, and plugging and abandonment requirements. Hydraulic fracturing impacts and practices have also been the subject of a number of governmental and private studies. The Secretary of Energy Advisory Board Subcommittee on Shale Gas Production recently issued two reports, which contain a number of recommendations for producers and regulatory agencies that would create additional regulatory burdens. These include the disclosure of water flow 55 Table of Contents and fracturing fluid used in the fracturing and well completion process and the adoption of best practices in well development and construction, requirements for background water quality measurements, and air emission limits for sources of GHGs, air toxics, ozone precursors and other air pollutants. In addition, the Energy and Commerce Committee of the United States House of Representatives is conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Similarly, the EPA is conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. On November 3, 2011, the EPA released its study plan on the effects of hydraulic fracturing on human health and the environment to the EPA's Science Advisory Board for comment. The EPA expects to make public its initial findings by the end of 2012 and an additional report with further research in 2014. Further, certain members of Congress have asked for further investigation through the U.S. Government Accountability Office, the SEC and the U.S. Energy Information Administration. These ongoing and proposed studies could lead to initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing. Additional requirements could be imposed, including permitting requirements, financial assurances, public disclosure obligations, monitoring and reporting requirements. New requirements could increase operating costs and any disclosure requirements could increase the possibility of third-party or governmental legal challenges to hydraulic fracturing. The EPA has also begun to assert regulatory authority over certain aspects of hydraulic fracturing. Recently, the EPA asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the SDWA's Underground Injection Control Program, or the "UIC," and is currently developing UIC permitting guidance for hydraulic fracturing activities that use diesel fuel in fracturing fluids. In addition, the EPA has issued new emission standards to reduce VOC emissions from oil and gas exploration and production operations including specific limitations for emissions associated with hydraulic fracturing. In particular, hydraulically fractured gas wells must comply with reduced emission (REC) techniques by January 1, 2015. Further, the agency has announced that one of its enforcement initiatives for its 2011 to 2013 fiscal years would be to focus on environmental compliance by the energy extraction sector. Finally, on October 20, 2011, the EPA announced its plan to propose pretreatment standards for wastewater generated during the hydraulic fracturing process. These governmental studies of hydraulic fracturing impacts and practices and the EPA's regulatory and enforcement initiatives could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. If hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. If such permitting requirements delay our drilling activity, our ability to present reserves, and once presented, book reserves, will be delayed as well. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, Pennsylvania, Colorado, and Wyoming have each adopted a variety of well construction, set back, and disclosure regulations limiting how fracturing can be performed and requiring various degrees of chemical disclosure. Texas recently passed a law requiring public disclosure of certain information about chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process, and the Texas Railroad Commission has adopted rules setting forth requirements for such public disclosure. In addition, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality recently adopted more stringent air emission and permitting requirements for oil and gas exploration operations in the Barnett Shale. More stringent air emissions and permitting requirements may be imposed on the areas in which we operate sometime in the future. These regulations, if adopted, would affect our operations, increase our costs of exploration and production and limit the quantity of oil and gas that we can economically produce. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state and local authorities on a timely basis following leasing. In addition to the imposition of more stringent regulations at the state and federal level, certain local authorities have passed or are considering moratoria on oil and gas drilling and restrictions on hydraulic fracturing. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable 56 Table of Contents conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to explore or develop its properties. Additionally, the oil and gas regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase our financial and managerial costs to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations and, consequently, materially adversely affect our profitability. Furthermore, these additional costs may put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to larger companies in the industry which can spread such additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating staff. Any increased costs for fracturing or restrictions on the use of fracturing could result in we being unable to economically produce hydrocarbons that we discover, resulting in our inability to book reserves, and materially adversely affecting its future results of operations. Global financial and economic circumstances may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. Global financial markets may have a material adverse impact on our business and its financial condition, and it may face challenges if conditions in the financial markets are inadequate to finance our activities at a reasonable cost of capital. While the current economic situation has improved since 2008, continuing concerns over the worldwide economic outlook, geopolitical issues, the availability and costs of credit, and the sovereign debt crisis have contributed to increased volatility in the global financial markets and commodity prices and diminished expectations for the global economy and these conditions could make it more difficult for us to access capital. In addition, adverse economic circumstances could cause customers, joint owners or other parties with whom we transact business to fail to meet their obligations to us. Also, worldwide economic conditions could lead to reduced demand for oil and gas, or lower prices for oil and gas, or both, which could have a material negative impact on our revenues, results of operations and financial conditions. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Among the changes contained in the President's Fiscal Year 2013 budget proposal, released by the White House on February 13, 2012, is the elimination of certain U.S. federal income tax deductions and credits currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. Such proposed changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. Recently, members of the U.S. Congress have considered similar changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect oil and gas exploration and production companies. It is unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or, if enacted, how soon such changes would be effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or defer certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Laws regulating derivatives established under the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations being promulgated thereunder could adversely affect our ability to manage business and financial risks by reducing the availability of, and increasing our cost of using, derivative instruments as hedges against fluctuating commodity prices and interest rates. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, establishes a new regulatory framework for derivative instruments, including a requirement that certain hedging transactions be cleared on a derivatives clearing organization and traded on an exchange or a swap execution facility, and a requirement to post cash collateral (commonly referred to as "margin") 57 Table of Contents for such transactions. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, federal regulators of banks and other financial institutions, or the prudential regulators, and the SEC to promulgate the rules implementing the new law, which are expected to be finally adopted by June 30, 2012. Until these regulations are adopted, effective and implemented in practice, we cannot determine what impact the new regulatory framework will have on our business. ZaZa LLC has not historically entered into hedging transactions, and Toreador's historical and future hedges may not be subject to those rules due to its foreign operations. Depending on the final regulations adopted by the CFTC, the prudential regulators and the SEC, we may be subject to a margin requirement that will cause us to post collateral for our hedging transactions in excess our current expectations. Such a requirement may increase our costs and decrease our profitability. Moreover, our counterparties may also be required to post margin on our transactions and comply with minimum capital requirements, which could result in additional costs being passed on to us, thereby negatively affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act permits the CFTC to set position limits in derivative instruments. Our counterparties may be subject to these position limits, which may reduce our ability to enter into hedging transactions with these counterparties. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivative activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. These changes might not only increase costs, but could also reduce the availability of some derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts and potentially increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If our use of derivatives is reduced, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock We do not intend to pay cash dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future, but expects to retain earnings to finance the growth of its business. Therefore, any return on investments will only occur if the market price of our common stock appreciates. In addition, the terms of our Senior Notes and Warrants prohibit the payment of dividends from paying dividends pursuant to the terms of our Senior Notes and Warrants. There has been no prior public market for our common stock. Prior to the completion of the combination, no public market had existed for the shares of ZaZa Energy Corporation common stock. Although our shares of common stock have recently been listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, an active public market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained, which could affect the ability to sell, or depress the market price of, our common stock. We are unable to predict whether an active trading market for our common stock will develop or will be sustained. The public price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The price and volume of our common stock may be volatile and subject to fluctuations. Some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in the stock price or trading volume of our common stock include: •general market and economic conditions and market trends, including in the energy and oil industries and the financial markets generally; 58 Table of Contents •the political, economic and social situation in the United States and France, including legislation in France that bans the use of hydraulic fracturing in oil and gas wells; •actual or expected variations in operating results; •variations in quarterly operating results; •inability to meet projections in production and revenue; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, or other business developments, such as oil or gas discoveries; •adoption of new accounting standards affecting the industry in which we operate; •operations and stock performance of competitors; •litigation or governmental action involving or affecting us or our subsidiaries; •changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; •recruitment or departure of key personnel; •purchase or sales of blocks of our common stock; •volatility in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro; and •operating and stock performance of the companies that investors may consider to be comparable. There can be no assurance that the price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly. The stock market in recent years has experienced considerable price and volume fluctuations that has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies and that could materially adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. The market prices of stock in exploration stage companies have been especially volatile. In addition, Price volatility might be worse if the trading volume of shares of the common stock is low. Furthermore, stockholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of ZaZa Energy Corporation's stock declines significantly, which may cause our to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. We have the ability to issue "blank check" preferred stock, which could affect the rights of holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation allows the board of directors to issue 25 million shares of preferred stock and to set the terms of such preferred stock. The terms of such preferred stock may materially adversely impact the dividend and liquidation rights of holders of our common stock. The requirements of being a public company, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management; and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. We have limited history operating as a publicly-traded company. We need to comply with certain laws and regulations and public reporting requirements, including the reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, laws, and regulations and rules of the SEC and the Nasdaq, all of which ZaZa and ZaZa LLC were not required to comply with as a private company. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements will increase our general and administrative costs as a result of higher expenses associated with director and officer liability insurance, audit work, regulatory requirements and the establishment and maintenance of heightened 59 Table of Contents corporate governance measures and management oversight. Compliance will occupy a significant portion of our board of directors' and management's time. We are currently: •instituting a more comprehensive compliance function; •designing, establishing, evaluating and maintaining a system of internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; •establishing internal policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and insider trading; •preparing and filing periodic and annual reports; and •establishing an investor relations function. If we are unable to accomplish these objectives in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our public reporting requirements and other rules that apply to public companies could be impaired, and we may be subject to sanction or investigation by the SEC or the Nasdaq. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could result in a restatement of our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and us and have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Prior to the Combination, neither ZaZa nor ZaZa LLC was required to evaluate its internal control over financial reporting in the manner that is currently required of certain public companies in the United States. As a public company, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm that addresses our internal control over financial reporting. The requirement for such auditor report will apply starting with the annual report for the year ended December 31, 2013 if we have $75 million or more in public float as of June 30, 2013. If, as a result of deficiencies in our financial or other internal controls, including material weaknesses, we have not or cannot provide reliable financial reports or internal recordkeeping or compliance procedures, our business decisions or compliance processes may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, we may be subject to legal penalties or other claims, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the price of our stock could decrease. The majority of our common stock is owned by the founders, whose interests may not be aligned with the interests of other stockholders. Under our stockholders' agreement with the entities controlled by the ZaZa founders, the significant ZaZa owners, during the three years following the closing of the Combination will be entitled to designate a proportional number of directors to the Board (but not more than seven) based upon the significant ZaZa owners' (and their permitted transferees') percentage ownership of ZaZa. The remaining directors of ZaZa will be nominated by a nominating committee consisting of two directors selected by the designees on the Board that were selected by Toreador prior to the closing of the combination (and their successors) and one independent director selected by the significant ZaZa owners. The three individuals that founded ZaZa LLC, the ZaZa founders collectively own 60 Table of Contents approximately 66% of the common stock. During the three years after closing, the ZaZa founders will be required to vote their shares in favor of the nominees of the nominating committee. However, after the third anniversary of the closing, there will be no limitation on the number of directors of ZaZa that the significant ZaZa owners may nominate and elect and, as such, they may be able to nominate and elect the entire Board and remove any directors, including directors who were Toreador designees or nominated by the Board's nominating committee. In addition, as a result of their share ownership in ZaZa, the significant ZaZa owners will be able to control all matters requiring approval by ZaZa stockholders, including, but not limited to: mergers, consolidations or acquisitions; the sale of all or substantially all of ZaZa's assets and other decisions affecting ZaZa's capital structure; the amendment of ZaZa's certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and ZaZa's liquidation, winding up and dissolution. Finally, under the stockholders' agreement, the significant ZaZa owners are subject to a three-year standstill period starting on the date of the consummation of the transactions. However, once the stand-still period ends, there will be no contractual restriction on the significant ZaZa owners' ability to purchase additional shares of our common stock or take us private on terms that may not be favorable to the other stockholders of ZaZa. The interests of the significant ZaZa owners may not be aligned with the interests of the other stockholders. This concentration of share ownership may have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning shares in a company with significant stockholders. The ZaZa founders have economic interests in our properties and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of us. The ZaZa founders are board members and these individuals will be our board members, collectively beneficially own approximately 66% of our common stock. In addition to their interests as equity owners, each of these individuals also has a direct or indirect overriding royalty interest relating to certain of our properties. These overriding royalty interests generally entitle them to three percent of the net revenue interest associated with sales of oil and gas produced from these properties, without any corresponding responsibility for payment of any expenses, as described in "ZaZa Related-Party Transactions." The overriding royalty interests may present a potential conflict of interest with our interests. In addition, our joint venture agreement with Hess requires that the joint venture have at least a 72% net revenue interest in all leases included in the joint venture. To the extent that an acquired lease includes less than a 72% net revenue interest, we may be required to satisfy the overriding royalty interests held directly or indirectly by our managing partners out of our own 10% interest in the joint venture. There is a potential market overhang that could depress the value of our common stock, and future sales of our common stock could put a downward pressure on the price of our shares and could have a material adverse effect on the price of our shares. In connection with the issuance of our Senior Notes and our Warrants, we agreed to register the resale of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise or conversion of our Warrants. In addition, we have also agreed to register the sale of shares of common stock that were sold privately by the significant ZaZa owners after the closing of the Combination. We are obligated to file a registration statement with respect to all such shares (approximately 35 million in the aggregate) within 90 days of the closing and use our commercially reasonable efforts to cause such registration statement to become effective within 180 days of the closing. The possibility that substantial amounts of our outstanding common stock may be sold by such holders, or the perception that such sales could occur, could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities in the future. In addition, this selling activity could decrease the level of public interest in our common stock, inhibit buying activity that might otherwise help support the market price of our common stock, and prevent possible upward price movements in our common stock. 61 Table of Contents In addition, the significant ZaZa owners have demand and piggyback registration rights pursuant to our stockholders' agreement commencing on the six month anniversary of the closing. Pursuant to the Lock-Up agreement entered into with the holders of our Warrants, the significant ZaZa owners have significant limitations on their ability to sell any shares for five years, subject to certain exceptions. The possibility that the significant ZaZa owners could sell under those exceptions could add to the effect of such overhang. The integration of Toreador and ZaZa LLC will present significant challenges that may reduce the anticipated potential benefits of the transactions. We face significant challenges in consolidating functions and integrating their organizations, procedures and operations in a timely and efficient manner, as well as retaining key personnel. The integration of Toreador and ZaZa LLC is complex and time-consuming due to the locations of their corporate headquarters and the size and complexity of each organization. The principal challenges include the following: •integrating accounting systems and internal controls over accounting and financial reporting; •integrating Toreador's and ZaZa LLC's existing businesses; and •preserving customer, supplier and other important business relationships. Management is dedicating and will have to dedicate substantial effort to integrating the businesses. These efforts could divert management's focus and resources from the company's business, corporate initiatives or strategic opportunities during the integration process. Upon the expiration of the non-competition agreements and under certain other circumstances, the three ZaZa founders will be able to directly compete with New ZaZa. On August 9, 2011, each of the three ZaZa founders (referred to as a "restricted person") entered into a separate non-competition agreement with ZaZa. The non-competition agreements provide that each of the restricted persons and his controlled affiliates may not engage in, carry on or assist any oil or gas business in specified areas in the Eagle Ford and Eagle Ford/Woodbine resource plays in Texas and the Paris Basin in France or acquire oil and gas interests in, or acquire interests in any businesses with oil and gas interests in, those specified areas, subject to certain exceptions. The restricted persons also agreed not to advise, request, induce, attempt to induce or otherwise divert any customer, supplier, licensee or other business relation of ZaZa, ZaZa LLC and Toreador and their present and future subsidiaries, and further agreed not to materially curtail, limit or cease doing business with any such entities or materially interfere with the customer, supplier and other business relationships of, or oil and gas interests or the businesses of, ZaZa, and its present and future subsidiaries. The non-competition agreement with each restricted person lasts only until the later of the termination of the restricted person's employment with ZaZa or three years after the consummation of the transaction. In addition, the non-competition agreements do not apply to any opportunity in which the restricted persons would be prohibited from participating, if such opportunity is first offered to ZaZa and a majority of the full board of directors of ZaZa, including a majority of the disinterested directors, declines to pursue such opportunity, or a majority of the disinterested directors fails to make a determination as to whether ZaZa will pursue such opportunity within ten business days following such offer. Upon the expiration of the non-competition agreements, or during the term of the non-competition agreements if the ZaZa board of directors declines or fails to determine whether to pursue a corporate opportunity within ten business days, the ZaZa founders will be free to pursue competitive activities or such corporate opportunities, which could create conflicts of interest and limit ZaZa's ability to acquire additional assets or pursue its businesses and could have a material adverse effect on us. 62 Table of Contents We are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the Nasdaq rules and qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance standards, which may limit the presence of independent directors on the board of directors or board committees of ZaZa. The ZaZa founders will beneficially own shares of our stock which represents approximately 66% of the outstanding voting power of our capital stock. Accordingly, the ZaZa founders will have the ability to elect our board of directors and thereby control the management and affairs of ZaZa. Therefore, we are deemed to be a "controlled company" for purposes of Nasdaq Rule 5615(c)(2). Under this rule, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, a group or another company is a "controlled company" and may elect to be exempt from certain corporate governance requirements, including requirements that (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 