D. RISK FACTORS An investment in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this annual report before making an investment in our ordinary shares. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if any of these risks occurs, and as a result, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—G. Safe Harbor.” Our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors. 5 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry Our business model is evolving and we may be unable to increase or monetize our active user base sufficiently to increase or maintain our profitability. Our business model has evolved in recent years toward seeking to increase and monetize all of our active user base through a variety of means rather than drawing revenue primarily from users purchasing subscriptions to our premium products and online services. To expand our user base, we have added and plan to continue to add new products and online services to our product portfolio, broadening our focus beyond security solutions and increasing our support for mobile computing devices. The evolution of our business model is ongoing and may depart further from the subscription-based model we used for much of our operating history. We may be unsuccessful in executing our new business model of adding compelling new products and online services and monetizing all of our active user base. Our primary means of monetizing our active user base has been our dynamic secure search solution in connection with, until November 2010, our search agreement with Yahoo!, subsequently, since November 2010, our search agreement with Google and, after renewing that Google search agreement in November 2012 for a two-year term on a non-exclusive basis, which in respect of the second year is terminable by either party for convenience with effect on and from November 30, 2013 upon 60 days notice which must be received on or before October 1, 2013, our additional search agreements with Yahoo! for a three-year term on a non-exclusive basis, which is terminable by either party for convenience by 180 days notice to take effect on or after January 23, 2015, and Seznam for a two-year term on a non-exclusive basis, signed in December 2012. These search agreements have provided us with a significant revenue stream. If we cannot find additional methods of monetizing our active user base and additional products and online services that users find compelling, we will not be able to continue our recent growth and increase our revenue, margins and profitability. If our new methods of monetizing our active user base, or our new products and online services cannot be sustained, our revenue, margins and profitability could be adversely affected. We must maintain our relationships with our existing users and attract new users if we are to continue to expand and improve the quality of our user base, which we may be unable to do. A significant portion of our users stop using our products in any given period because the cost of switching to the products and online services of competitors on existing hardware, including mobile devices, is minimal and because competitors’ products are often preinstalled on new hardware purchased by our users, among other reasons. For example, in the security software market, about 95% of new desktop computers have one of our competitors’ security products preinstalled. To continue to expand our user base, we must retain our existing users to the extent possible and continuously attract new users, both to replace the many users who exit our user base and to expand that base. Any failure to continue to expand our user base could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our ability to monetize our active user base varies depending on many characteristics of those users, including level of engagement with our products and services, amount and nature of Internet and computing activities, geographic location and income level. If we are unable to retain and recruit users whose characteristics contribute to a user base with optimum potential for monetization, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer materially. The significant turnover in our user base also limits our ability to predict our revenue and cash flows for future periods, making it more difficult for us to manage our business. Our search-traffic program is crucial to our effort to monetize more of our active user base and this program is vulnerable to technological change, including the rise of mobile computing, and our reliance on a limited number of search providers. Our most successful program to monetize all of our active user base has been our dynamic secure search solution, including our browser toolbar, which gives our users a convenient way to access a search engine at any time and to be secure that the sites that are the results of the search will not infect or damage their computers or 6 Table of Contents other devices. Search engine companies pay us for the search queries we steer to them via our dynamic secure search solution. If software companies that provide Internet browsers prevent the addition of our toolbar, either directly by limiting space for toolbars in the browser interface or indirectly by restricting access to software code, our ability to monetize all of our active user base will be adversely affected. The rise of mobile computing makes this risk more acute as most mobile devices have smaller screens than desktop and laptop computers and software developed for these devices may not as readily accommodate additional toolbars as software developed for desktop and laptop computers. We have not yet begun distributing our toolbar with software designed specifically for mobile devices but intend to do so in future, as mobile represents a small but expanding proportion of the total search market. In addition, we currently expect that revenue per active mobile user will be lower than revenue from traditional active users. As such, there can be no assurance that revenue from our dynamic secure search solution or other similar solutions we may develop will grow in line with our expectations, or that we will be able to maintain or expand our current and future platform-derived agreements or enter into additional agreements to generate platform-derived revenue. The failure of these markets to continue to grow, or our inability to penetrate these markets, would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For the majority of platform-derived revenue from our dynamic secure search, we have historically relied upon agreements with one search engine company at a time, previously Yahoo! and then Google, to generate revenue from our dynamic secure search solution. Our revenue generated by Google accounted for 44% of our revenue in 2012, an increase from 28% of our total revenue in 2011. Revenue generated by Yahoo! sourced search accounted for 6% of our revenue in 2011. We have revenue concentration risk as we rely on our contractual arrangements with Google and Yahoo! for a significant portion of our revenue and we cannot guarantee that the revenue generated from the Google and Yahoo! sourced search agreements will continue. In November 2012 we renewed our relationship with Google by signing a new Internet search and advertising services agreement on a non-exclusive basis and subsequently signed search distribution agreements with other partners including Yahoo!, but we expect Google to continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue. Search engine companies pay us a percentage of any search revenue generated whenever a user clicks on an ad (also called a sponsored link) served by that search engine company and hosted on one of AVG’s search domains. Our customers can access our Secure search via the toolbar, default search, address bar or the AVG search homepage. Any decline in the popularity of our products or a search engine we utilize could result in a decrease in revenue from this source under our agreements with search engine companies. Certain search engine companies can also unilaterally make changes to their policies and guidelines, which primarily concern the operations and technology of their search services. These changes could require us to modify or suspend certain activities relating to our toolbar or search solutions, which could be costly for us to implement or lead to a reduction in the number of search customers and impact revenue. For example, one of our major search partners has released new guidelines that will restrict our ability to have our secure search toolbar installed as a default once our users download, or purchase another of our solutions, so that our users would have to opt for toolbar installation before it would be installed. We may also need relevant applicable search engine companies’ permission to offer the toolbar or our dynamic search solution in a form other than that previously approved in connection with our initial contracts, which, if they did not grant such permission, could adversely impact our ability to generate revenue by preventing us from offering the toolbar or search solutions as we otherwise would. In addition, the search engine companies may terminate their respective agreements with us if the advertising revenue generated, query volume or traffic quality through our dynamic secure search solution falls below a certain level over a certain time period, and they have other customary termination rights under the agreement, including upon a change of control. Similarly, the revenue share under such agreements varies according to the amount of traffic we deliver to each search engine. The agreements expire on November 30, 2014 and January 22, 2016 with Google and Yahoo! respectively with a mutual break clause one year earlier in the case of Google (as mentioned above) and a mutual right of termination for convenience on 180 days notice to take effect on or after January 23, 2015, in the case of Yahoo!. Neither search engine company is under any obligation to renew its agreement. If, upon the termination or expiration of our agreements, we fail to enter into new agreements with Google or Yahoo! or a similar search provider on substantially the same or more favorable 7 Table of Contents terms, our revenue would significantly decrease. We may also be unsuccessful in diversifying our search revenue and Google and Yahoo! will likely remain responsible in the near term for the majority of our platform-derived revenue, so we will likely continue to have significant revenue concentration risk. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our brand, our business and operating results may be harmed. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand identity is critical to our business. The successful promotion of our brand will depend largely upon our marketing and public relations efforts, the quality of our Internet software solutions and our ability to differentiate ourselves from our competitors. The promotion of our brand may require us to make substantial expenditures, which will likely increase as our market becomes more competitive. As we expand into new markets, particularly the mobile market, and product sectors within the PC market, such as PC optimization, our brand may not be as well recognized and additional sales and marketing expenditure may be required. If we are not successful at maintaining and enhancing our brand, our ability to attract new users would be adversely affected and we could lose users, third-party distributors and resellers. Our business depends on our brand recognition and the failure to maintain or enhance our brand image could adversely affect our business and market position. In particular, we rely on our active users as primary drivers of our user-driven marketing strategy and any negative change to the perception of our brand among our active users could have a material adverse effect on our business. As we develop and further enhance our brand, marketing messages and visual identification, there are risks that we may adversely impact our business if such developments are not effective. In addition, independent industry analysts often provide reviews of our solutions, as well as those of our competitors. Perception of our products in the marketplace may be significantly influenced by these reviews. Our brand could be harmed if industry analysts provide negative reviews of our software solutions or our Company. Furthermore, we depend upon certain third-party distributors of our solutions and actions by those third parties could have a negative effect on our brand. We may not achieve sufficient access or incur exceptional costs in accessing the mobile market as an emerging market. There has been a significant shift toward reduced use of PCs as individuals spend more time on smartphones and tablets and we believe this shift will accelerate. Tablets and smartphones are generally referred to together as “mobile computing” or simply “mobile”. This shift to mobile has resulted in reduced PC shipments and increased sales of smartphones and tablets. Almost all of AVG’s current revenue comes from PC-based products. We consider the acquisition and monetization of users in the mobile space is key for AVG’s future development. To date we have acquired 26 million users in the mobile space, primarily users of smartphones. The mobile sector is developing and changing much more quickly than the PC sector. There can be no guarantee that we will continue to acquire users or that our current users will continue to use our products. Trends in mobile may differ from those we predict and we may therefore design irrelevant or unwanted products which customers may not wish to use or pay for. User churn in mobile products may differ materially from churn in PC products and our systems may not be able to track such churn effectively leading to incorrect investment decisions. Commercial, privacy and such other laws and regulation may change and affect the trend in mobile and our ability to attract and retain users or require additional effort and cost to comply and compete in this sector. We may lack the scale to be able to effectively compete in the mobile sector, and competition may increase to the point where meaningful monetization is not possible. Any one of these factors or a combination of these factors may make our move into mobile unsuccessful and materially harm our results. 8 Table of Contents We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and online services as a result of numerous factors, most of which are beyond our control. Demand for our products and online services fluctuates from period to period due to factors such as general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, financial and business conditions of our current and potential customers and levels of Internet usage. Technological change includes the move away from PC-based computing to mobile based computing and the associated slowdown of shipments in the PC market leading to a potential reduction of our total addressable market. There are also particular factors driving demand for each of our specific products and online services. For instance, demand for our Internet software solutions among our targeted customer base of small businesses and consumers is driven by our small business customers’ need for protection of business-critical data, consumers’ need for protection of their own personal data, potential users’ awareness of Internet security threats (including cybercrime) generally, the perceived potential damage caused by information loss and other factors. In addition, while concerns related to Internet privacy and the protection and control of Internet users’ personal information could potentially result in greater demand for some of our products and online services, there is also a risk that the growing awareness of potential privacy breaches and unintended sharing of personal information could slow overall growth in the adoption of Internet solutions, which we depend on to drive demand for our products and online services. Most of these factors are beyond our control. A change in the factors driving demand for our products and online services generally or for particular products and online services could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure or perceived failure to anticipate, prepare for and respond promptly to technological developments and the changing nature of online security threats could harm our competitive position and business prospects. The needs of our customers and the threats they face evolve constantly. For example, in the endpoint security market, hackers and cybercriminals continuously develop and employ increasingly sophisticated techniques to penetrate systems and networks and access information. Although the market expects timely introduction of software solutions to respond to new threats, the development of these solutions can be challenging and time-consuming. We may experience delays in the introduction of new solutions, updates, enhancements and features. If we fail or are perceived to fail to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our users by developing and introducing on a timely basis Internet security solutions that effectively protect against new security threats, our competitive position, reputation and business prospects could be harmed. Similarly, the endpoint security market is dynamic, characterized by new technologies and access points to the Internet, which also require protection from hackers and cybercriminal attacks. Responding to the challenges posed by these new platforms and their corresponding new threats can be difficult and require significant reengineering of our software. We may therefore fail or be perceived to fail to provide solutions for these new technology platforms as threats to them arise, which could harm our competitive position, reputation and business prospects and would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our upgrades and new products and online services, whether acquired or internally developed, fail to achieve widespread market acceptance, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. Our ability to attract new users and to maintain or increase revenue from existing users depends largely upon our ability to continue providing competitive new products and enhanced solutions that meet the changing needs of our target user base as these needs arise. We plan to continue to invest in acquisitions, research and development, marketing, promotion and sales of our products and online services, with new features, functionalities, enhancements and upgrades. Acquisition of new companies and products creates integration risk, while development of upgrades and new products and online services involves significant time, labor and 9 Table of Contents expense and is subject to risks and challenges including management of the length of the development cycle, adaptation to evolving industry standards, entry into new markets, integration into our existing product line, regulatory compliance, evolution in sales methods and acquisition and maintenance of intellectual property rights. If we fail to launch these upgrades or new solutions on time, or they do not achieve widespread market acceptance, do not meet user expectations, do not operate in an efficient manner, otherwise create the perception of slow operating performance, or generate revenue that is not sufficient to recoup or justify the cost of development, our revenue, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. A significant percentage of our total revenue comes from purchases of subscriptions to our premium products, which must by their terms be renewed by our users to remain in force. Historically, a significant majority of our active users have been users of our free products and online services. Our growth strategy is based in part on offering premium products on top of our core, free products. To the extent we are not able to convert these free users into subscription users, our ability to generate subscription revenue would be adversely affected. We generally provide our premium Internet security solutions pursuant to one-year and two-year subscriptions, after which the relevant product or services either cease to operate or are no longer updated with the latest online threat information (rendering the product increasingly less useful as new threats emerge). In 2012, subscription revenue accounted for 55.3% of our total revenue. While we offer subscription users the option to renew their subscriptions, a significant portion of our subscription users choose not to do so. We have taken steps to increase our renewal rates by, for example, adding an auto-renew option on some of our premium products and online services, but there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful in increasing our renewal rates. The majority of users purchasing a license online in 2012 opted for auto-renewal. The European Union, or EU, is developing a new EU Consumer Rights Directive, however, that is scheduled to come into effect in 2014 that will restrict the use of auto-renewals if the directive is enacted in its current form. We may consequently be forced to reduce or eliminate our use of auto-renewals with subscription users in the EU once these rules go into effect. Proposals to restrict auto-renewals are also under consideration in the United States, or U.S. To the extent that we must reduce or eliminate use of auto-renewals in these or other markets, our renewal rates may fall, potentially reducing the number of our subscription users. As a consequence, the growth of our subscription revenue depends significantly on attracting new subscription users, and this dependence could increase due to regulations concerning auto-renewal that are outside of our control. Any failure to maintain or improve the renewal rates of our subscription users or to attract new subscription users could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, our ability to measure the conversion of free users into subscription users is limited as there are multiple upgrade paths to our premium products and online services, not all of which we are currently able to track or track accurately. If we are unable to effectively track changes in conversion rates, regardless of the reason for such changes, we may be unable to react to changing market dynamics, and this may negatively affect our growth and revenue. Uncertainty about the renewal rates of our subscription users also limits visibility with respect to future subscription revenue. We operate in highly competitive markets and many of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do. The markets for the software solutions we offer are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes as customers’ needs and the threats they face evolve. We expect competition to increase in the future and we may not be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors. In particular, some of our competitors may make acquisitions or enter into agreements or other strategic relationships to offer more comprehensive products and/or services, and new competitors may enter the market through acquisitions, agreements or strategic or other such relationships. 10 Table of Contents We and other vendors compete on price and functionality at different price points. Additional competition may cause increased pricing pressure, which could reduce our revenue per user. For example, in the endpoint security software market, while we have historically been able to reduce pricing pressure on our premium solutions and limit the decline in revenue per subscription user by releasing regular product enhancements, there can be no assurance that pricing pressure will not adversely affect our subscription revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Similarly, across our markets, our competitors may offer free products perceived to be superior to our offerings, causing our free and/or subscription users to switch and shrinking our monetizeable user base. Our main competitors fall into the following categories: • vendors with “freemium” pricing like our own, such as Avast!, Avira, PC Tools (which was acquired by Symantec), Carbonite and Dropbox; • traditional vendors such as McAfee (which was acquired by Intel Corporation), Symantec and Trend Micro (which primarily provide software solutions, including security software, for large enterprises) and Eset, Kaspersky Labs, Panda Software, Sophos, Rising, Kingsoft, Check Point and F-Secure (which offer more customized and segment-focused products); • vendors offering PC optimization products, such as UniBlue; • secure search or toolbar providers; • other vendors in the emerging mobile market, such as Lookout; and • large corporations offering a wide variety of products, only a few of which compete with ours, such as Microsoft, Google, which recently introduced free security software solutions, Apple, which offers cloud-based data protection, Qihoo, Tencent and Facebook. Many of these competitors have significantly greater brand name recognition and financial resources to devote to the development, promotion and sale of their products and/or services than we do. For example, Microsoft entered the endpoint security market through the introduction of Microsoft Security Essentials, a free Internet security product that has captured a significant share of the free endpoint security market. Similarly, Google, our primary provider for our search revenue stream, recently entered the security space by adding a malware alarm to its search engine results display and it may increase its security offerings in future. Further, smaller and/or more regionally focused vendors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer demand as recently evidenced by the rapid growth of Internet companies like Qihoo and Tencent. Software vendors have begun to employ a “cloud-based” or software-as-a-service business model in which vendors host applications for use by customers over the Internet. This model may disrupt existing models like the model we employ for most of our products and online services, based on software downloaded from the Internet that resides on a user’s hard drive. Our competitors, including new cloud-based entrants or larger competitors with greater resources to shift to a new model, may have success with cloud-based provision of software, decreasing the demand for those of our products based on another model. In the future, we may face competition from both emerging and established companies operating in our sector and in other areas of the IT business that may develop or acquire software that they may offer as part of their broader product or service offerings and/or for free. Original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, or operating system vendors may seek to include competitive, pre-installed, fully functional Internet software and mobile solutions with their core product offering. For example, Intel acquired McAfee, one of our leading competitors, and indicated it may integrate McAfee’s security solutions into its hardware products, which may adversely affect sales of our aftermarket and/or standalone security solutions. In addition, other competitors may leverage their greater resources to develop relationships with OEMs or operating system vendors, thereby diminishing demand for our products and adversely affecting our ability to acquire and retain customers. 11 Table of Contents Our business relies on the significant experience and expertise of our key management and technical staff and we must continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel in order to grow our business successfully, and our CEO has recently announced his resignation. Our future performance depends on the continued service and performance of our key management, research and development and sales personnel. We may fail to retain key management, research and development and sales employees, or to attract the qualified staff needed to manage and grow our business. We may also fail to attract and retain highly qualified technical, services and management personnel in the future, or may face time-consuming and costly integration of replacement personnel. In particular, we have relied on J.R. Smith, our chief executive officer, or CEO, and member of our management board, who has been critical in developing our core strategy and vision and in leading execution of our business model over the six years of his tenure as CEO. In March 2013, Mr. Smith’s resignation as CEO of our Company was announced. Mr. Smith will remain CEO of our Company until a successor is appointed. We expect Mr. Smith to become a member of our supervisory board, but such nomination may not be approved by the general meeting of shareholders. The search for and arrival of a new CEO may cause a distraction to or hamper retention of our employees. In addition the new CEO may introduce changes or developments to the vision or strategy of the Company which may prove to be less successful than our current strategy. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, revenue and results of operations. Our failure to adequately protect our customers’ personal data and information could have a material adverse effect on our business. A wide variety of provincial, state, national and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data and information. These data protection and privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and may result in ever-increasing regulatory and public scrutiny and escalating levels of enforcement and sanctions. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or to protect such data, could result in enforcement action, including fines, imprisonment of company officials and public censure, claims for damages by customers and other affected individuals, damage to reputation and loss of goodwill (both in relation to existing customers and prospective customers), any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance and prospects. Evolving and changing definitions of personal data and information, both within the EU and elsewhere, especially relating to classification of IP addresses, machine identification, location data and other information, may limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our business, including limiting strategic partnerships that may involve the use or sharing of personal data and information. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation and inhibit adoption of our products and services by current and future customers. We are subject to privacy laws, which have become increasingly stringent. We collect and process personal data (including email addresses, IP addresses, device identifiers, customer satisfaction data, physical names and addresses, customer service issues and website visits) as part of our business. In addition, a majority of our online customers purchase our services online with a credit card. As a result, not only must we comply with strict data protection and privacy laws in the EU, the U.S. and certain other jurisdictions where we operate, we must also comply with the laws applicable to merchants receiving credit card information and the standards adopted by credit card issuers. Those laws and standards regulate and restrict our ability to collect and use personal data and information relating to customers and potential customers. This could impact our strategy for future growth, which involves greater interaction with our customer base. In the EU, there have been significant developments in the laws and regulations concerning data protection and privacy, including in relation to the use of “cookies” and the solicitation, collection, processing or other use 12 Table of Contents of personal data and information, including data relating to consumers. Data protection authorities have issued fines in certain cases. A new data protection regulation is under review by the European Parliament providing for fines of up to 2% of annual world-wide revenue for non-compliance, demanding breach notification requirements, more onerous data subject consent requirements (including requirements that consent must always be explicit), a so-called “right to be forgotten” and requirements to ensure privacy by design and by default. In the U.S., the proposed Do-Not-Track legislation would allow users to opt out of certain online monitoring, potentially even monitoring conducted with benign intent, such as monitoring to increase the efficacy of security software. Additionally, a proposed “Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights” could lead to legislation or voluntary industry standards that would require us to adopt additional security measures or prevent us from retaining or using certain data. There have also been guidance and proposals for regulation of mobile app development, potentially leading to an increase in opting out by customers and a narrowing of permissible purposes for the use and processing of personal data information. Such restrictions may increase our compliance burden, reduce our ability to increase our active user base or monitize our products and services, and reduce the opportunity presented by the emerging mobile market. These developments in law and regulation could affect our ability to execute our strategy of building additional commercial partnerships, as the collection, processing, use and sharing of customer data potentially needed to derive value from those partnerships may be prohibited or restricted. Any present or future laws which restrict the collection and use of personal data and information could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the requirements imposed by data protection laws and regulations in one jurisdiction can conflict with laws, and the demands of regulators and other governmental authorities, in other jurisdictions. For example, U.S. authorities can demand access to data that is accessible to or controlled or collected by our group companies that are located in the U.S., pursuant to the USA PATRIOT Act including data collected or controlled by affiliates located outside of the U.S. If any of this data includes personal data and/or confidential information, it is possible that any such disclosure could cause us to breach data protection and privacy laws and regulations in one or more member states of the EU or other jurisdictions. Our data security defenses could be breached. Notwithstanding our efforts to secure our IT, data security and other systems, we are exposed to the risk that this personal data and information could be wrongfully accessed or used, whether by employees, customers or other third parties, or otherwise lost or disclosed or processed in a manner that violates applicable data protection law and regulation. In certain jurisdictions where we operate, we are under an affirmative legal obligation to notify the appropriate government authorities or data subjects in circumstances where personal data and information may have been wrongly accessed or used, or otherwise lost or disclosed. Efforts to mitigate and comply with such laws, and even the perception of a data security breach, increase the risk that such incidents will lead to sanctions (including fines and other penalties), claims by data subjects and disclosure leading to public knowledge of the breach, potentially causing reputational damage to our business. The European Commission is considering proposals to broaden the obligation to implement security measures and report security incidents, and similar proposals may be made in the U.S. Regulation of the Internet and the lack of certainty regarding application of existing laws to the Internet could substantially harm our operating results and business. We are subject to laws and regulations applicable to doing business on the Internet over both PCs and mobile devices. It is often not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales tax and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet as these laws have in some cases failed to keep pace with technological change. Recently enacted laws governing the Internet could also impact our business. For instance, existing and future regulations on taxing Internet use or transactions or restricting the exchange of 13 Table of Contents information over the Internet could result in reduced growth or a decline in the use of the Internet and could diminish the viability of our services. In particular, the EU has approved rules that will come into effect in 2014, and the U.S. is considering similar proposals, to restrict the use of automatic renewals, which may reduce the renewal rate of and subscription revenue for our premium products. Furthermore, it is possible that governments of one or more countries may censor, limit or block certain users’ access to our websites. Changing legal, regulatory and industry standards and industry self-regulation regarding the collection, use and disclosure of certain data may have similar effects. Any such adverse legal or regulatory developments could substantially harm our operating results and our business. We believe that we and our resellers have sold or provided our products to users in jurisdictions that are the subject of export controls and sanctions administered by the U.S. Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security and the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control. We believe that we may have inadvertently violated certain of these controls and sanctions in the past. We cannot currently assess the nature and extent of fines or other penalties, if any, that the Bureau of Industry and Security or other U.S. governmental agencies may impose against us or our employees for any such violations. Sale of certain of our products into Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan and Syria may be restricted or prohibited under U.S. export control laws and/or economic sanctions administered by the U.S. Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security, or BIS, and the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC. We have discovered that, from time to time, we have sold or provided free of charge through the Internet licenses to use our products to a small number of users (relative to our active and subscription user bases) in Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan and Syria. In August 2011, we filed initial voluntary self-disclosures with OFAC and BIS relating to these transactions. We conducted an investigation to determine the scope of possible violations of the U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions administered by BIS and OFAC over a period of five years before our IPO. While we had and continue to have certain controls in place to prevent sale into, and have not actively marketed our products in, any of the jurisdictions that are the target of economic sanctions, we have determined that some sales took place to users in those jurisdictions resulting in revenue to us constituting less than one half of one percent of total paid license fee revenues over a period of three years before our IPO. We filed our supplemental report concerning the results of our investigation with OFAC and BIS in November 2011. In December 2011, we received a cautionary letter from OFAC indicating that it has closed its investigation without imposing any penalty and without a final agency determination on whether a violation has occurred. We cannot predict when BIS will complete its review, which began over a year ago, and make its determination. We implemented a remediation plan that included terminating access to licenses and blocking the transmission of updates and upgrades of our products to all users with a geographic internet protocol (GEOIP) address in Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan or Syria. While there can be no assurance that future violations will not occur, the remedial measures we implemented were designed to prevent future violations of regulations administered by OFAC and BIS. We may nonetheless be required to spend further significant time, money and managerial resources to address these issues. If we are found to be in violation of BIS regulations, we may face criminal and/or civil penalties and/or reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our future revenue depends on our ability to continue to market to new users, which we may not be able to accomplish on a cost-effective basis or at all. We are dependent on the acquisition of new users, many of whom have not previously used products and online services such as those we provide. We rely and have relied on a variety of marketing methods to attract new users to our solutions, such as generating interest through our user base and social networking services to create a user-driven marketing effect, public relations campaigns around new product and service launches and Internet security threats and efforts to improve our positioning in response to online searches through search engine optimization, search engines and other online advertising. Our ability to attract new users depends on the perceived value of our products and online services versus that of the premium and free products and online services offered by our competitors. This dependence increases as we move into new markets such as PC 14 Table of Contents optimization and address new platforms such as mobile and as the number of users in our traditional PC market may begin to decline as a result of increased mobile usage. If our current marketing initiatives are not successful or become less effective, or if the cost of such initiatives were to significantly increase, we may not be able to attract new customers as efficiently and, as a result, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. We have historically relied heavily on user-driven marketing to attract new users to our solutions, although we expect to increase our spending on marketing in the future. If we are unable to maintain or increase the efficacy of our user-driven marketing strategy, particularly in the new markets we may enter, or if our more costly marketing campaigns do not have the desired impact, we may be required to increase marketing expenses still further to compensate, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will be successful in maintaining or expanding our user base on a cost-effective basis or at all, and failure to do so would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our software solutions may contain undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities, which could cause harm to our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our software is inherently complex and may contain material defects, errors or vulnerabilities that may cause it to fail to perform in accordance with our technical specifications and program documentation or with user expectations. As may happen to any vendor of software, errors, failures and bugs may be found in some of our new offerings or updates after initial distribution of those offerings or updates, particularly given that end users may deploy our products and services in computing environments with operating systems, software and/or hardware different than those in which we test our products and services before release. The costs incurred in analyzing, correcting or eliminating any material defects or errors in our software may be substantial. Furthermore, we may not be able to correct any defects or errors or address vulnerabilities promptly, or at all, or may become subject to legal disputes, claims and proceedings, including class action lawsuits, causing significant harm to our reputation and competitive position. Any defects, errors or vulnerabilities may cause interruptions to the availability of our software and result in lost or delayed market acceptance and sales, or may require us to issue refunds to our customers. Security products are critical to the businesses of many of our customers, which may make them more sensitive to defects in our products than to defects in other types of software. We could face claims for product liability, tort, breach of warranty or damages caused by faulty installation of, or defects in, our products. In the event of claims, provisions in our contracts relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations may be unenforceable. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management attention. Defects, errors and vulnerabilities may also lead to loss of existing or potential customers, to diversion of development resources, or to increasing our services, warranty, product replacement and product liability insurance costs, and may damage our reputation. Our product liability insurance coverage may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms or at all. We have experienced rapid growth in recent years and we may not be able to sustain the same rate of growth or maintain our operating or profit margins going forward. Our revenue has grown significantly in recent years, increasing by 30.7% in 2012, compared with 2011, 25.4% in 2011 compared with 2010 and by 19.4% in 2010 compared with 2009. However, our operating income margins decreased by 10.2% in 2012 compared to 2011 following a decrease of 16.7% in 2011 compared to 2010 and by 9.3% in 2010 compared to 2009, partially counteracting the effects of revenue growth on our profitability. We operate in a dynamic and changing market and investors should not rely on our historical results as an indication of our future operating performance. Further, as a result of the increased scale of our business, we believe that it is unlikely that we will be able to maintain the historical rate of growth of our revenue in future periods, and we cannot assure our shareholders that decreases in our operating margins will not continue. 15 Table of Contents We may not be able to manage our growth effectively, which could harm our business and operating results, and we may need to incur significant expenditure to address the additional operational requirements of our growth. We have recently experienced a period of significant growth and expansion and we plan to pursue a strategy of continued growth, which has required and will continue to require substantial managerial and financial resources particularly as we seek to expand into the mobile market. Our current systems, procedures and staffing may not be adequate to support our future operations. To accommodate our recent and future growth, we must continue to expand our operational, engineering and financial systems and IT infrastructure, improve our accounting and other internal management procedures and systems and hire additional staff. In addition, our efforts to expand our business geographically include developing local language versions of our security software solutions, opening new offices and call centers, including centers to support our solutions in additional languages, hiring staff in new areas and adding additional functionality to our solutions. If we fail to manage our growth adequately, to adapt our operational, financial and management information systems and IT infrastructure, or to motivate or manage our employees effectively, the quality of our products and the management of our operations and costs would suffer, which could adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, like many peer companies, we engage contractors as well as employees. There is some risk that relevant authorities, both in jurisdictions where we have well-established operations and those we have recently entered, could seek to reclassify our arrangements with certain contractors as employment relationships, with potentially adverse tax and regulatory consequences. As we expand we may also choose to rationalize our operations in certain business areas. This may lead to reductions in our headcount, changes in our systems or alterations to our processes, any of which may compromise the effectiveness of our operations or reduce staff morale and efficiency and which may be costly to implement or maintain. In particular, we are in the process of restructuring the way we support our PC optimization product portfolio, which may present risks to our ability to maintain and grow revenues derived from that technology. In addition, we regularly evaluate and, where appropriate, implement changes to, our internal control structure. Implementing any such changes to our internal control structure may divert management attention, entail substantial costs and take significant time to complete. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal control structure in line with the growth of the business, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce financial statements or provide accurate data from which we derive our key metrics, or monitor business developments on a timely basis, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our revenue growth for any period falls short of our expectations, we may not be able to adjust our costs in a timely manner, which could reduce our profit margin in that period. Although we base our planned operating expenses in part on our expectations of future revenue, a substantial portion of our expenses is fixed in the short term and cannot be reduced quickly if our future revenue falls short of expectations. Accordingly, if the rate of growth of our revenue in any period is significantly less than we anticipated, because either our user base is smaller, our subscription renewal rate is lower than expected or our efforts to monetize our active user base fall short, we may be unable to adjust our cost base proportionally on an accurate and timely basis, which would reduce our operating margin. Our current operations are international in scope and we plan further geographic expansion, creating a variety of operational challenges. Our offices, personnel and customers are dispersed around the world. We face difficulties including costs associated with developing software and providing support in many languages, varying seasonality patterns, potential adverse movement of currency exchange rates, longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting 16 Table of Contents accounts receivable in some countries, tariffs and trade barriers, a variety of regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to operate, adverse tax events, reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries and a geographically and culturally diverse workforce and customer base. Failure to overcome any of these difficulties could negatively affect our results of operations. We intend to further expand our operations globally by initially seeking to expand our user base, developing a local version of our product, seeking to introduce localized services and finding a local distributor to manage the distribution of our premium solutions. If these efforts are unsuccessful in creating and expanding our global user base, or if our expansion increases the difficulties of running a global company, our results of operations could be harmed. We may not be able to integrate businesses we have acquired or may in the future acquire and those acquisitions may fail to provide us with the benefits we anticipated. We have acquired and made investments in other companies and services to expand our technology capabilities, our product breadth and functionalities, our user base and our geographical presence, and we intend to continue to make acquisitions and investments in the future. The integration of those businesses and their operations, technologies and products involves the incurrence of acquisition costs and may expose us to liabilities, including unanticipated liabilities and tax liabilities, operating difficulties and expenditures associated with the assimilation and retention of employees of the acquired business, acquisition legal contingencies, risks related to maintaining procedures, controls and quality standards and other risks and difficulties. We may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits from any acquisition or investment and the consideration paid for an acquisition or investment may also affect our financial results. Such acquisitions and investments could divert management’s time and focus from operating our business and divert other resources needed in other parts of our business. The financing of acquisitions or investments in other companies may require us to use a substantial portion of our available cash, raise debt, which would increase our interest expense, or to issue shares or other rights to purchase shares, which may result in dilution to existing shareholders and decrease our earnings per share. Moreover, acquisitions may result in write-offs and restructuring charges as well as in creation of goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to regular impairment testing, which could result in future impairment charges. All of these factors could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to fluctuations in our financial results, making it difficult to project future results. A variety of factors cause volatility in our financial results, making any projections of future results uncertain. Such factors include but are not limited to fluctuations in demand for or pricing of our products and services, impacts of acquisitions, timing of product orders and payments, issues relating to alliances with third parties, product and geographic mix, timing of new products and customers, currency exchange fluctuations and potential accelerations of prepaid expenses and deferred costs. Accurately measuring the number and retention of our active and subscription users is difficult and our failure to accurately measure the number and retention of our active and subscription users at any time will compromise our ability to monitor our key performance indicators, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to manage our business. We measure the number of our active users as (i) PCs or mobile devices on which our free software has been downloaded and installed and that have connected to our server twice in the preceding 30-day period, (ii) software solutions for which a valid subscription license exists or (iii) representing a unique device using our secure search solution that has made at least one secure search in the preceding 30-day period. We measure the number of our subscription users as the number who have a valid subscription license for our software. We made a series of improvements to our tracking capabilities in 2009 and early 2010 in order to mitigate the double-counting arising from the previous system’s inability to distinguish active users who may have had multiple installations during the relevant period, but these improvements also render our active users metric from previous dates not directly comparable. We have continued to have difficulties measuring the number of our active users, 17 Table of Contents in part due to system constraints during upgrade campaigns. For example, at times during the second half of 2009 and the first nine months of 2010, we experienced double-counting issues due to the launch of new products and related issues with service capacity caused by high download volumes. We have also continued to have difficulties measuring the number of our subscription users, as the variety of channels by which we sell licenses requires us to draw on disparate and variously-dated data sources and employ manual calculations in the measurement. We will continue to attempt to improve the accuracy of our measurement of the numbers of our active users, but we cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in doing so. For example, we have made various adjustments to our counting methodology over time, including by changing the way users are recognized and counted during upgrade campaigns. While we believe these adjustments have improved the overall accuracy of our user numbers, we have still discovered some errors. As a result, we also introduced two new systems for counting user numbers. This project is ongoing, however, and will not be fully implemented until all users have migrated to the new version of our products. Once these counting systems are fully implemented, based on initial results, we expect that we will have greater confidence in the accuracy of our user counts, but these systems remain new and have not been tested over time, and there can be no assurance that they will meet our expectations. We seek to analyze and eliminate any double count of the number of active users who are using our search product or our PC optimization product as well as our PC security product in our user base. We are improving the methods of analyzing these users and we believe that these systems are fully implemented, and based on initial results, we expect that we will have greater confidence in the accuracy of our user counts, but these systems remain new and have not been tested over time, and there can be no assurance that they will meet our expectations. We also face difficulties in quantifying user retention, both in terms of user churn and subscription renewal rates. This difficulty is in part due to our limited ability to track non-subscription users based on personally identifiable information. For instance, when a non-subscription user replaces a device on which he or she uses our products and services, this event typically registers as the loss of an existing user and the gain of a new one, causing no change to the size of our user base but inflating the level of apparent churn. We compile renewal rates for users of particular subscription products, but such rates only describe the activities of subscription users representing a small portion of our total active user base. Furthermore, we offer a variety of products and online services and do not have integrated methods of quantifying retention of our users across these products and services. This inability to quantify certain aspects of aggregate user behavior may adversely affect our business if we are unable to accurately monitor the results of our strategic decisions on pricing and product introduction and marketing. In particular, if we are unable to accurately assess and predict user behavior, our initiative to up-sell and cross-sell our expanding set of products and services to users across our platform may be harmed. Our understanding and management of our business depends on accurate measures of the numbers of our active and subscription users and other key performance indicators derived from these metrics and our management decisions may be suboptimal if our measurements of these key metrics are inaccurate. Furthermore, if a significant understatement or overstatement of our active user or subscription user metrics were to occur, the market might perceive us to be underperforming or to have inadequate systems, which could adversely affect our share price. Additionally, as we grow into other markets and particularly the mobile market, certain of our other users may also be among our PC users, and we are currently unable to determine the extent of this duplication. This means that the number of our underlying customers is likely to be less than the number of our active users when calculated as described above. We currently define a customer, as opposed to an active user as defined above, as a person who purchases or uses a product or service, or multiple products or services. We do not currently have the means to accurately count the number of our customers. We intend to develop such means, but our ability to do so will be constrained by our technical capabilities. 18 Table of Contents We depend on download sites and search engines to attract a significant percentage of our users and if those sites or search engines change their listings, increase their pricing or experience a material reduction in their online traffic, our ability to attract new users would be adversely affected. Many of our users locate our products and online services and our website through download sites and search engines. A significant number of new users of our endpoint security solution acquire that software through just one of the many download sites that features our products, CNET’s Download.com website. If any of our key download sites such as Download.com cease to feature or carry our solutions or traffic to them declines, fewer potential users may download our products, particularly our AVG Anti-Virus Free Edition. Search engines typically provide two types of search results—algorithmic and purchased listings—and we rely on both types. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased and are determined and displayed based on criteria formulated by the relevant search engine. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search results. If the search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms in a manner that reduces the prominence of our listings, fewer potential users may click through to our websites, requiring us to resort to more costly methods of attracting this traffic. Furthermore, the majority of our traffic from search engines came from a single source, Google. This traffic is unrelated to our agreement with Google to steer search queries to Google in connection with our dynamic secure search solution. The concentration of search traffic from a single search engine increases our vulnerability to potential algorithm modifications by that search engine. Any failure to replace the traffic to our website coming from search engines could reduce our revenue or require us to increase our customer acquisition expenditures. Similarly, we have in the past and may in the future be the target of so-called “cybersquatters,” who seek to register Internet domain names that are confusingly similar to our own domains or marks. Although we have not suffered material losses due to cybersquatters to date, we nonetheless make diligent efforts to block their activities. Some cybersquatters have taken our free product and sold it to users, which could lead to confusion among our users and, ultimately, a loss of these users, which would reduce any platform revenue that we would have received from these users. In addition, although no cyber-squatting incidents have raised material security concerns relating to our business and products to date, there can be no guarantee that future cybersquatting incidents will not cause material losses or raise security concerns. If search engines rank cybersquatters’ imitation websites above our own sites, existing or potential customers may be misled, and this could harm our reputation, cost us consumer goodwill and negatively affect our operating results. Adverse conditions in national and global economies or adverse information technology spending trends in the consumer and small business markets may adversely affect our business and financial results. National and global economies have recently experienced a prolonged downturn and the future severity of adverse economic conditions and the length of time such conditions may persist is unknown. In particular, ongoing concerns about sovereign debt in both the EU and the U.S. have increased economic uncertainty and raised the possibility of further disruption in the global capital markets. During challenging economic times, periods of high unemployment and in tight credit markets, many of our users may delay or reduce technology purchases. This is true of both consumers and small businesses, which we define as businesses with 100 seats or less, where a seat is an identified computer workstation, whether independent or part of a network. Such delays or reductions in purchasing could result in reductions in sales primarily of our online services, as well as our products, difficulties in collecting our accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies, lower renewal rates and increased price competition. Other trends (whether the result of economic factors or otherwise), such as reduction in interest in our products leading to declines in traffic to our sites, declines in the demand for PCs, servers and other computing devices, or softness in small business and consumer information technology spending, could have similar effects. Practically all of our revenue is currently derived from the PC and there has been a global slowdown in PC shipments as consumers and businesses switch to mobile devices. The persistence of any of these conditions would likely harm our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents In 2012, 56.9% of our total revenue was comprised of sales into the Americas. We are therefore exposed to conditions in the Americas and particularly in the U.S., which accounted for 50.5% of our total revenue in 2012. Any continuation of or further deterioration in these conditions or a reduction in consumer or small business information technology spending for any reason could result in a downturn in sales of our premium software solutions or adoption of our online services such as our hosted Software as a Service offering, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our growth, business, revenue and results of operations. False detection of viruses or other security or privacy threats by our products and online services could adversely affect our business. Some of our solutions identify threats by “behavioral monitoring,” which is a methodology that seeks to identify threats by their behavior rather than scanning for malicious code. There are inherent inaccuracies in the detection of threats based on behavioral monitoring and as a result, our anti-virus and other Internet security services may falsely indicate the presence of viruses and other threats that do not actually exist even when these programs are working correctly. These “false positives” may impair the perceived reliability of our services and may therefore harm our market reputation. Also, our anti-spam and anti-spyware services may falsely identify emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs, or alternatively fail to properly identify unwanted emails or programs, particularly as spam emails or spyware are often designed to circumvent Internet security software. Parties whose emails or programs are blocked by our services may seek redress against us for labeling them as spammers or spyware, or for interfering with their business. In addition, false identification of emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted software may reduce the popularity and adoption of our services. Also, since our launch of Do-Not-Track functionality we may falsely identify and block tracking advertising networks or websites. If our system restricts important files, applications or tracking advertising networks or websites based on falsely identifying them as malware or some other item that should be restricted, this could adversely affect customers’ systems. Any such false identification of important files, applications or tracking advertising networks or websites could result in negative publicity, loss of customers and sales, increased costs to remediate and costly litigation. Our software products and IT infrastructure may be subject to intentional disruption that could harm our reputation and future sales. We have been the target of spam attacks on our email addresses and denial of service and other sophisticated attacks on our websites, mail system and firewalls. Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent intentional disruptions, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance of our products. Similarly, experienced computer programmers, including programmers on our staff, could attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our solutions and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruption of our services. Because the techniques used by such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these attacks. In addition, hackers have created pirated versions of our software, malware that attacks our software after it has been downloaded onto customers’ computers and malware that deceptively assumes our brand name and imitates the interface of our software, encouraging our users and potential users to download it in place of our software. We may face legal liability, our activities could be adversely affected and our reputation, brand and future sales could be harmed if these intentionally disruptive efforts are or are perceived to be successful. We may be required to expend significant resources both to protect us against system architecture and network failure and disruption and to enable us to grow our business. Our web server content is stored in six separate data centers, which are located in Amsterdam, London, Toronto, Hong Kong, Prague and Brno (Czech Republic). Virus definition files are sent to Akamai Technologies GmbH, a content delivery network, for distribution to our customers and backed up at our primary and secondary data centers, which are located at separate sites in Brno for redundancy purposes. At present, we have no written 20 Table of Contents or formal business continuity plan with regard to our virus research specifically, or systems and system architectures in general. Furthermore, our systems are composed of various components which were not designed to interoperate with one another, potentially leading to significant system breakdowns. Although we believe we have the technical knowledge necessary to mitigate problems relating to our systems and system architecture, we may at any time be required to expend significant capital or other resources (including staff and management time and resources) to protect ourselves against network failure and disruption, including the replacement or upgrading of our existing business continuity systems, procedures and security measures. In addition, our evolving business model and growth plan will require expansion and upgrading of our systems to support additional users, localities, products and online services. These expansions and upgrades will likely consume significant capital and managerial resources. If replacements, expansions, upgrades and/or other maintenance are not implemented successfully or completed efficiently, or there are operational failures, the quality of our product portfolio and service experienced by our users will be adversely affected. If, as a result, users were to reduce or stop their use of our Internet security solutions, this could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance and prospects. We may become subject to unanticipated tax liabilities that have a material adverse effect on us or our shareholders. AVG Technologies N.V. is a company incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands and on this basis is subject to Netherlands tax laws as a Netherlands resident taxpayer. We believe that it is resident solely in the Netherlands for tax purposes and that we, and in certain cases, the holders of our shares, can rely on this position for purposes of the application of tax treaties between the Netherlands and other jurisdictions. However, if our tax position were successfully challenged by applicable tax authorities, or if there were changes in the tax laws, tax treaties, or the interpretation or application thereof (which could in certain circumstances have retroactive effect) or in the manner in which we conduct our activities and manage our operations, AVG Technologies N.V. could be considered or may become a resident of a jurisdiction other than the Netherlands, which could subject us to unanticipated tax liabilities, possibly on a retroactive basis and holders of our shares could become subject to different tax treatment in respect of the acquisition, holding (including in respect of dividend payments on our shares or other distributions), redemption or disposal of our shares. Challenges by various tax authorities to our international structure may, if successful, increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our earnings. We are a Dutch public limited liability company holding subsidiaries that operate in multiple jurisdictions, including the United States, Czech Republic, Germany, Cyprus, United Kingdom, Israel, France, Australia and China. Our income taxes are based upon the applicable tax laws and tax rates in the Netherlands and these jurisdictions as well as upon our operating structures in these countries. We determine the amount of taxes we are required to pay based on our interpretation of the applicable laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate and our application of the general transfer pricing principles to our cross-border intercompany transactions. Many countries’ tax laws and international treaties impose taxation upon entities that conduct a trade or business or operate through a permanent establishment in those countries. However, these applicable laws and treaties are subject to interpretation. The tax authorities in these countries may contend that a greater portion of the income of the group should be subject to income or other tax in their respective jurisdictions. This may result in an increase to our effective tax rate and adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, tax audits may expose us to potential adverse tax consequences, including interest payments and potential penalties. Changes in international or national banking and tax laws and regulations or in the channels in which we distribute our solutions may adversely affect our business and reported results. Our business is internationally organized in multiple jurisdictions that can be subject to changes in international or national banking and tax regulations and related proposals. 21 Table of Contents Changes in such banking and tax laws, regulations, related interpretations and tax accounting standards in the United States, Czech Republic, Germany, Cyprus, United Kingdom, Israel, France, Australia, China, the Netherlands and other jurisdictions may result in a higher tax rate on our earnings, which may result in a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flow from operations. In March 2013, the government of Cyprus for example announced plans to impose a levy on deposits with Cypriot banks and to increase corporate income taxes as part of a package to bail out the Cypriot banking system. These developments may also have an adverse commercial impact on our e-commerce operations in Cyprus. Governments are increasingly considering banking and tax law changes as a means to cover budgetary shortfalls resulting from the recent economic environment. If such proposals were enacted, or if modifications were made to certain existing tax treaties, or if tax authorities were to change their interpretations of such existing laws or treaties, the consequences may have a material adverse impact on us, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, even if tax laws and regulations remain unchanged, a change in the channels in which we distribute our solutions could adversely affect our effective tax rate. For example, growth in retail “box-on-shelf” sales would subject us to additional income tax in the jurisdiction of the relevant selling entity, resulting in a higher portion of our income being subject to a higher tax rate. These events could increase our effective tax rate and therefore reduce our net profits. Potential changes in the tax deductibility of interest in the Netherlands may adversely affect our financial position. The Dutch government has approved new legislation limiting the deductibility of interest. The new law limits the interest deductions in respect of all loans used to acquire a Dutch target company which is either (i) included in a corporation tax consolidation (i.e. fiscal unity) with the acquirer or (ii) merged with the acquirer. Interest expenses incurred on borrowings obtained to finance such acquisition structures would be deductible against the stand-alone taxable income of the acquirer only (i.e., in effect, the fiscal unity or legal merger is disregarded). A grandfathering applies for leveraged acquisitions that resulted in the inclusion of the Dutch target company in a fiscal unity or legal merger with the acquirer before November 15, 2011. The new legislation should not limit the tax deductibility of the interest payable by us under our current indebtedness. However, in certain circumstances if we were to incur new indebtedness, the new legislation would limit the tax deductibility of the interest payable by us in the future and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. U.S. states may seek to impose state and local business taxes. Even if AVG’s non-U.S. entities are not subject to U.S. federal income tax, those entities could still be liable for U.S. state and local business activity taxes based upon income or gross receipts. States generally impose business activity taxes on entities deriving revenue from customers located within the state, owning or leasing property in the state or employing personnel in the state. States are becoming increasingly aggressive in asserting nexus for business activity tax purposes. Therefore, in states where we have customers, employees, agents or any activity, state tax authorities may attempt to assert nexus. If, based on our sale of products or services in the state, a state tax authority asserts that our activities give rise to nexus, we could be subject to an increased state and local tax burden. End-user taxation in our key sales jurisdictions could impact our revenues and a successful assertion that we should have been collecting (or collecting additional) sales tax or other transaction taxes on prior sales of products or services could result in substantial tax liabilities. Point-of-sale taxation, including U.S. state and local sales/use taxes, of our products and of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet, may be imposed on our end users and/or on us. Increased taxation on our end users for the 22 Table of Contents purchase or use of our products and online services could have a material impact on the purchasing decisions of our end users and adversely affect our revenues and could also increase our internal costs. If we do not collect reimbursement for such assessments from our customers, we would become liable for these taxes. In addition, a successful assertion by any state, local jurisdiction or country that we should have been collecting (or should have been collecting additional) sales or other transaction taxes on the sale of our products or services could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales. Historically, we have taken the position that our sales of software delivered over the Internet are not subject to sales/use taxes in the states in the United States. This conclusion was based on one or both of the following propositions: (i) many states do not impose sales/use tax on electronic delivery of our products; and (ii) AVG Cyprus (and, subsequent to our internal reorganization, AVG eCommerce CY Limited), operating our ecommerce online sales platform, and AVG Netherlands B.V., operating our search partnerships and third party search distribution, did not have a physical presence and did not have nexus in any state in the United States. However, it is possible that a state or local jurisdiction in which we do not charge and collect sales/use tax or other transaction taxes could assert that we should have previously been collecting such taxes in prior periods; if successful, such challenges could require us to pay substantial amounts of taxes, interest and penalties, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, national and local governments are facing deteriorating fiscal situations and tax authorities are currently reviewing the appropriate treatment of transactions and companies engaged in electronic commerce. New or revised tax laws and regulations are being passed that may subject us or our customers to additional sales, income and other taxes. In particular, there has recently been much activity and legislation as well as audits and court cases involving imposition of sales/use taxes on e-commerce transactions in several U.S. states. For example, some states are adopting statutes (sometimes colloquially referred to as “Amazon Laws”) which attribute to out-of-state vendors the in-state physical presence of a referral source, and these laws may adversely affect our business. If the vendor compensates even unrelated parties for driving business to its website (i.e., by click-through) then, in some states, there is a rebuttable presumption the vendor has nexus, which enables the state to charge sales tax on the vendor’s transactions. We use referral sources which we compensate, and there is a risk that we will have to collect sales/use taxes or terminate our relationship with important referral sources, including those based in key states such as California and New York that have adopted these so-called “Amazon Laws.” In addition to click-through nexus statutes, some states have introduced extensive and onerous reporting requirements that are burdensome and costly and could affect our business. Although the constitutionality of these “click-through” statutes and reporting requirements is being challenged on various grounds, if these laws are upheld as constitutional, such a result likely would lead to more widespread adoption of similar legislation which could further negatively impact our business. We rely on software licensed from third parties, including server software, and intellectual property rights associated with such software, that are required for the provision of our services. These licenses may be difficult to retain or the third-party software could cause errors or failures of our solutions. We rely on software licensed from third parties to offer our services and software solutions, including server software from Mailshell, and other third-party technology. In addition, we may need to obtain future licenses from third parties to use intellectual property rights associated with the development of our solutions, which might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any third-party software required for the development and maintenance of our solutions could result in delays in the provision of our solutions until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business. Any errors or defects in third-party software could result in errors or a failure of our solutions which could result in legal disputes, claims and proceedings, including class action law suits, and harm our business. 23 Table of Contents Some of our solutions contain “open source” software, which may pose increased risk to our proprietary software. We may have in the past and could in the future combine our proprietary software with certain open source software in a certain manner, which could, under certain of the open source licenses, require us to release the source code of our proprietary software. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software. We cannot be sure that all open source code is submitted by our developers to our internal review process for approval prior to its inclusion in our products. In addition, many of the risks associated with the usage of open source software may be difficult to eliminate and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. We are and could be subject to further claims for infringing third-party intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business. Because of the nature of our business, including development and acquisition of intellectual property rights and the hiring of employees formerly employed by competitors, we are and could become further subject to material claims of infringement by competitors and other third parties with respect to current and future software solutions, trademarks, licenses or other intellectual property rights. In addition, we license and utilize certain third-party “proprietary” and “open source” software as part of our solutions offering. If an author or another third party that distributes such third-party or open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, required to disclose and/or provide part of the source code of our proprietary software for no fee, enjoined from the sale of our services and required to comply with conditions that could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our services. To the extent that we gain greater visibility and market exposure as a public company, we may face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property rights infringement claims. Moreover, some of these claims may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue of their own and against whom our own patent portfolio may therefore provide little or no deterrence. Any claims of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could damage our reputation and the value of our brand, cause us to incur substantial defense costs and distract our management and employees from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent or limit us from offering our software. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of the infringed intellectual property rights, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Alternatively, we might be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and which might not be successful. Third parties may also assert infringement claims relating to our software against our customers. Any of these claims might require us to initiate or defend potentially protracted and costly litigation on their behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims were to succeed, we might be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers, which could adversely affect our business. Protection of our intellectual property rights is currently limited and any misuse of our intellectual property rights by others could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Proprietary technology used in our software is important to our success. To protect our intellectual property proprietary rights related to our software, product, services, solutions and development, we have to date focused primarily on copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and protections afforded by contractual provisions. For example, we have registered trademarks such as “AVG” and our logo in the United 24 Table of Contents States, the European Union and in various countries throughout the world where we currently do business or are planning to do business. Intellectual property rights laws and regulations are uncertain. The protection from and enforcement of any intellectual property rights in the markets in which we operate are uncertain. The laws of countries in which we operate or intend to expand our operations, including China, may afford little or no protection to our copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. While we monitor the use of and respect for our intellectual property rights, policing unauthorized use of our copyrighted and trade secret technologies and proving misappropriation of our technologies are difficult. In addition, certain of our licenses are “click-through” licenses or are unsigned, which may render them unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. Furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the copyright, trade secret and other intellectual property rights laws in any country in which we operate or intend to expand our operations may adversely affect our ability to enforce our copyright, trade secret and other intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights and/or to determine the scope of our confidential information, intellectual property right and trade secret protection. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if third parties independently develop similar technologies to ours or otherwise gain legal access to our or similar technologies, our competitive position and brand recognition could suffer and our revenue, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Protection of trade secrets is limited. We seek to protect our software, trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by generally requiring our employees and consultant contractors to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by or providing consulting services to us. We also enter into non-disclosure agreements with our distributors, resellers and other business partners to protect our confidential and proprietary information. There can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties will not be breached, that we will be able effectively to enforce these agreements or to have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets and other proprietary information will not be disclosed or otherwise cease to be protected. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property rights and using our technology for their competitive advantage. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may encounter difficulties and uncertainties in obtaining or enforcing patents. Currently we have several patent applications pending in various jurisdictions, including the United States, the European Patent Organization, Canada and Russia, and filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty. For example, we have applied for patent protection for our LinkScanner technology, as well as our software for detection of harmful software and code analyses. We do not know whether any pending patent applications we have filed or will file in the future will result in the issuance of patents. Moreover, any patents that have been or may be granted may be opposed, contested or designed around by a third party, or may be subject to other limitations. We therefore may not receive significant competitive advantages from any patent rights that have been or that may ultimately be granted to us. Our business will suffer if the small business market for our products and online services proves less lucrative than projected or if we fail to effectively acquire and service small business customers. We market and sell a significant proportion of our products and online services to small businesses. We are seeking to evolve this business into an online, hosted Software as a Service (SAAS) model. Some of our competitors, by contrast, have emphasized sales to larger enterprises, which are attractive customers due to the 25 Table of Contents high revenue and low relative costs they offer per transaction and their low failure and high renewal rates. Small businesses frequently have limited budgets and may choose to allocate resources to items other than our products and online services, especially in times of economic uncertainty. We believe that the small business market is underserved, however, and we intend to continue to devote substantial resources to it. We aim to grow our revenue by adding new small business customers, selling additional services to existing small business customers and encouraging existing small business customers to renew their subscriptions to our premium products and by the transformation of the business into a SAAS model. If the small business market fails to be as lucrative as we project or we are unable to market and sell our services to small businesses effectively or we are unable to successfully transform this business into a SAAS model, our ability to grow our revenue quickly and remain profitable will be harmed. The value of our products and online services is partially dependent on the quality of our support services and our failure to offer adequate support services could have an adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations. Our users depend on us and, to some extent, on our user community, to resolve installation, technical or other issues relating to our software solutions and online services. We consider a high level of service to be critical for the successful marketing and adoption of our software as well as for retaining our existing users. In providing that service, we rely in part on the feedback and knowledge shared through our active online user community. Also, we have outsourced certain of our consumer support functions to third-party service providers, which may fail to perform at the level specified in our contracts with them. We also now provide a service in certain geographies where free user support is available for free users. If we, our user community or our third-party service providers do not provide accurate technical assistance or otherwise succeed in helping our users resolve issues related to the use of our software solutions and online services, our reputation could be harmed and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Similarly if we are unable to successfully operate the model for free user support for free users or the basis for the operation of that model changes, then our financial results may be negatively impacted or we may be forced to discontinue the service which could damage our reputation. In addition to our direct sales and distribution channels, we rely on third-party distributors and resellers to sell or distribute our software. If we fail to sell or distribute our products effectively through our third-party distributors and resellers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Software made indirectly through third-party distributors and resellers accounted for 18.1% of our total revenue in 2012, and although it may decline, we expect this sales channel to continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue. We have limited control over the amount of software that these indirect sales partners purchase from us or sell on our behalf. Weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us. Furthermore, a change in the credit quality at one of our distributors or other counterparties can increase the risk that such counterparty is unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us, which could directly or indirectly (through a disruption in our distribution network) have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any material decrease in the volume of revenue generated by our indirect sales channels could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. In 2012 we began to distribute our stand-alone LinkScanner product via third parties and pay them a bounty for distribution. End users adopt our stand-alone LinkScanner solution and hence our dynamic search solution as a result of this distribution and we generate revenue from the search activity of these users. These deals generated a significant proportion of our platform growth in 2012. The revenue we generate depends on the quality and volume of the search activity by our users. To the extent that this traffic may decline in quality or volume, the bounties we pay may be worth more than the search traffic they generate and the results of our operations may be negatively impacted. 26 Table of Contents While we believe we conduct appropriate due diligence on our sales partners, we may not be able to monitor their activities for regulatory or contractual compliance, which may jeopardize our reputation or our relationships with our search engine partners. Furthermore, certain national regulations could require licenses from governments or government agencies for the use of our products and these regulations may limit our penetration of certain markets by us or our indirect sales partners. For instance, we were required to obtain a business license to begin distribution of our products in China, which entailed defining the scope of our business and would require a revised license if that scope changed. China is the only jurisdiction important to our business in which we have sought a license to date, but developments such as release of new products, entry into new markets or regulatory changes in existing markets could oblige us to seek additional licenses in other jurisdictions in the future. If we violate the terms of a required license, it could cause us to lose the license, damage our reputation or require the reorganization of our distribution model. While we have standard contract terms for our third-party distributors and resellers that allow those parties the flexibility to decide where to sell our solutions and the price at which they are sold, some of our distribution and resale contracts contain provisions relating to exclusivity or allocation of territories and/or minimum price requirements. It is possible that resellers or distributors may seek to challenge such exclusivity arrangements. These challenges, regardless of merit, could divert management time and attention and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. This risk may be highest among third-party distribution contracts that we may seek to terminate. Any material disruption of our relationships with major providers of Internet distribution services, including Akamai, and payment services could adversely affect our business. Third parties supply us with certain products and services that are integral to our business. For example, we depend on Akamai for the distribution of our security software, for software updates to our active users and for acceleration and caching of our Web pages. We consider the possibility of Akamai failing to be remote and we have not developed a formal back-up or business continuity plan in the event of Akamai’s failure. If Akamai’s systems were to fail, we would be able to accommodate the distribution of our software and software updates on our own systems, but the delivery of our content would be slower. These services are material to our business. Accordingly, any disruption in the relationship between us and Akamai or between us and one of our Internet payment service providers, including any disruption of service, or the existence of any dispute, may harm our business and results of operations. We are exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and credit card payment processing. Our customers use credit and debit cards to pay for our services and products. We may suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit and debit cards. We, our payment providers, contracted support partners, reseller network and other partners may not have the means to detect or control payment fraud, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The secure transmission of confidential credit and debit card information is essential to maintain customer and supplier confidence in us. Advances in technology or other developments could make it possible to compromise or breach the technology that we use to protect subscriber and transaction data. It is possible that our security measures may not prevent security breaches, and we may be unsuccessful in, protecting against these potential exposures. Security breaches, whether of our system or third party systems, could significantly harm our business or our reputation. In addition, in the operations of one of our recent acquisitions, we currently do not adhere to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which is a worldwide information security standard defined by the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards Council, and do not expect to adhere to this standard until later this year at earliest. The standard was created to help payment card industry organizations that process card payments prevent credit and debit card fraud through increased controls around data and its exposure to compromise. Efforts to mitigate and comply with the standard, or similar standards, and even the perception of a breach of such standards increase the risk that such incidents will lead to sanctions (including fines and other penalties), claims by banks, card holders 27 Table of Contents and others and disclosure leading to public knowledge of such incidents, potentially causing reputational damage to our business. For credit and debit card transactions we pay interchange and other fees which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. In addition, our credit card fees may be increased by credit card companies if our chargeback rate, or the rate of payment refunds, exceeds certain minimum thresholds. If we are unable to maintain our chargeback rate at acceptable levels, our credit card fees for chargeback transactions, or for all credit card transactions, may be further increased, and credit card companies may increase our fees or terminate their relationship with us. Any increase in the credit card fees we are required to pay could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The termination of our ability to process payments on any major credit or debit card could significantly impair our ability to operate and grow our business. We are also subject to rules regarding payments of disputed charges, and if we have disputed charges over the permitted amount, we could be subject to fines and penalties and our ability to use credit cards and debit cards as a payment mechanism may be terminated. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit and debit cards, and it could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted or otherwise make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We may be unable to obtain additional financing or generate sufficient cash flows to make additional investments or fund potential acquisitions. We may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to invest in or acquire complementary businesses, technologies, products or services. Additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our shareholders may experience further dilution of their ownership interests. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities or obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those debt securities or financing arrangements may include covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If additional financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms when required, we may be unable successfully to develop or enhance our software solutions and online services, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our indebtedness could affect our financing options and liquidity. On March 15, 2011, we borrowed $235 million under our credit agreement. In addition, our credit agreement permits us to request up to an additional $100 million in borrowings subject to lender consent and covenant compliance. During 2012, we reduced this exposure following a series of mandatory and voluntary debt repayments. By December 31, 2012 the outstanding principal amount of our debt was $100.9 million. Our indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our assets and could have important consequences to our business or the holders of our ordinary shares, including: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions; • requiring a significant portion of our net cash provided by operations to be dedicated to the payment of the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for other purposes; • making us more vulnerable to economic downturns, interest rate changes and limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and 28 Table of Contents • preventing us from paying dividends on our ordinary shares, share buybacks or other distributions to shareholders. We are subject to debt covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and could limit our ability to grow our business. Covenants in our credit agreement impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions prohibit or limit, among other things, our incurrence of additional indebtedness, creation of certain types of liens, mergers or consolidations, asset sales, payment of dividends or other distributions to shareholders, investments and transactions with affiliates. These restrictions could limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. Furthermore, our indebtedness requires us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. Our ability to comply with this ratio may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If we are unable to comply with the covenants and ratios in our credit agreement in the future, we may be in default under the agreement. A change in control, including our current shareholders’ failing to continue to own at least 30% of our issued share capital, would also constitute an event of default. A default would result in an increase in the rate of interest and may cause the loan to be accelerated. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in the relative value of currencies against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our results of operations. At the parent company level, our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and our revenue and costs are reported in U.S. dollars. The majority of our revenue is earned in U.S. dollars while a significant portion is earned in British pounds sterling, Czech crowns and euros. A substantial portion of our costs are incurred in Czech crowns. We are exposed to transaction currency risk from fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and British pound sterling, Czech crown and euro. In addition, we are exposed to translational risk resulting from our international sales denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars and the resulting foreign currency balances held on our balance sheet. We enter into foreign exchange contracts to hedge much of our transactional exposure between the U.S. dollar and British pound sterling, Czech crown and euro. However, these hedging arrangements may not fully protect us from currency risk. In addition, due to Czech regulations, the functional currency of our primary Czech operating subsidiary is the Czech crown. This gives rise to a profit and loss revaluation charge on the U.S. dollar denominated assets of that Czech subsidiary. The same applies to certain other subsidiaries in other jurisdictions, such as Germany and the United Kingdom, although to a lesser extent. We manage this balance sheet exposure but do not use financial instruments to hedge these positions as we believe these are technical accounting exposures only. As a result, currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements would be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our share price. We must ensure that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis. Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We qualify as an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, potentially delaying the time at which we have to comply with section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which will require a report by our independent auditors addressing these management assessments. We are only at the early stages of implementing systems and controls to fully comply with Section 404. In addition, we may need to implement additional systems and controls with respect to new acquisitions and as our business model evolves. Both we and our independent auditors will be testing our internal controls in connection with the Section 404 requirements and could identify areas for further attention or improvement, including identifying issues that individually or taken together could represent a significant deficiency or material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. 29 Table of Contents Implementing changes to our internal controls will require compliance training for our directors, officers and employees, will entail substantial costs to modify our accounting systems and may take a significant period of time to complete. For instance, we have no existing risk compliance staff. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal control over financial reporting is inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may materially adversely affect our share price. We have new compliance burdens as a public company and as a foreign company reporting in the United States. As a public company, we implement and maintain and following any changes in applicable laws and regulations may be required to continue to implement and maintain processes and controls due to certain laws and rules and various requirements on public companies that we did not have to implement and maintain as a private company and we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, impose various requirements on public companies beyond establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls. We will need to continue to strengthen our internal procedures in a range of areas to match the standards expected of public companies. In addition, our recent entry into the U.S. capital markets imposes new and complex tax burdens and disclosure obligations unfamiliar to us as a company foreign to the United States. Similarly, our financial statements historically were prepared and will continue to be prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards as adopted by the European Union, but since our IPO, we have prepared and will continue to prepare our financials under U.S. GAAP for purposes of our reporting as a public company in the United States as well. Compliance with these laws and standards have increased and will continue to increase our legal, insurance and financial compliance costs and consume staff and management time, particularly while we are setting up new compliance initiatives, potentially harming our business and financial position. Risks Relating to Ownership of our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been and may continue to be volatile and the value of an investment in our ordinary shares may decline. Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial or operating results, the risks described above and additional factors listed below, some of which are beyond our control, may cause significant volatility in our share price. These additional factors include: • the failure of financial analysts to cover our ordinary shares or changes in financial estimates by analysts; • changes in financial estimates by financial analysts, or any failure by us to meet or exceed any of these estimates, or changes in the recommendations of any financial analysts that elect to follow our ordinary shares or the shares of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; • future sales of our ordinary shares; and • investor perceptions of us and the industries in which we operate. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our 30 Table of Contents operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of certain companies’ securities, securities class action litigation has been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. A substantial sale of our ordinary shares, or a perception that such sales may occur, could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. In connection with our IPO, all of our then existing shareholders agreed to certain restrictions on the sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares or any shares or other securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, our ordinary shares. We cannot predict whether substantial numbers of our ordinary shares will be sold in the open market since the expiration of the applicable lock-up period. A future sale of a substantial number of our ordinary shares, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and could also impede our ability to raise capital through an issue of ordinary shares in the future. Concentration of ownership among our directors, officers and large shareholders and their affiliates may prevent new investors from influencing corporate decisions. Current members of our management board, our supervisory board and our senior management and holders of greater than 5% of our ordinary shares and their affiliates beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 63.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of February 28, 2013. As a result, these persons will be in a position to exert significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including matters such as approval of the financial statements, declarations of dividends, the appointment and removal of the members of our management board and our supervisory board, capital increases and amendments to our articles of association. In addition, three of the members of our supervisory board are affiliated with holders of greater than 5% of our ordinary shares. In addition, certain shareholders’ significant shareholdings in us may have the effect of making certain transactions more difficult without the support of these shareholders and may have the effect of delaying or preventing our acquisition or other change in control. Only a relatively small percentage of our ordinary shares are publicly traded, which may limit the liquidity of the investments of our shareholders and may have a material adverse effect on the price of our ordinary shares. Approximately thirty-one million, or 57.5%, of our ordinary shares are held by members of our management board and supervisory board, senior management and their affiliates and only approximately twenty-three million or 42.5% are in the hands of other shareholders. As a result, only a minority of our ordinary shares are actively traded in the public market. Reduced liquidity may have a material adverse effect on the price of our ordinary shares. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of association may prevent or delay change-of-control transactions. Our articles of association contain provisions that may have the effect of making a takeover of our company more difficult or less attractive, including: • the staggered four-year terms of our supervisory board members, as a result of which only approximately one-fourth of our supervisory board members will be subject to election in any one year; • a provision that our management board and supervisory board members may only be removed at the general meeting of shareholders by a two-thirds majority of votes cast representing at least 50% of our outstanding share capital if such removal is not proposed by our supervisory board; • the authorization of a class of preference shares that may be issued by our management board, subject to the approval of our supervisory board, in such a manner as to dilute the interest of any potential acquirer; 31 Table of Contents • requirements that certain matters, including an amendment of our articles of association, may only be brought to our shareholders for a vote upon a proposal by our management board that has been approved by our supervisory board; and • minimum shareholding thresholds, based on nominal value, for shareholders to call general meetings of our shareholders or to add items to the agenda for those meetings. We are a Dutch public company with limited liability. The rights of our shareholders may be different from the rights of shareholders in companies governed by the laws of U.S. or other jurisdictions. We are a Dutch public company with limited liability (“naamloze vennootschap”). Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Netherlands. The rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our management board and supervisory board may be different from the rights and obligations of shareholders in companies governed by the laws of U.S. or other jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our management board and supervisory board are required by Dutch law to consider the interests of our company, its shareholders, its employees and other stakeholders, in all cases with due observation of the principles of reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our shareholders. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, are not subject to U.S. proxy rules and are subject to Exchange Act reporting obligations that, to some extent, are more lenient and less frequent than those of a U.S. domestic public company. We report under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as a non-U.S. company with foreign private issuer status. Because we qualify as a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act and although we are subject to Dutch laws and regulations with regard to such matters and intend to furnish quarterly financial information to the SEC, we are exempt from certain provisions of the Exchange Act that are applicable to U.S. domestic public companies, including (i) the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; (ii) the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time; and (iii) the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q containing unaudited financial and other specified information, or current reports on Form 8-K, upon the occurrence of specified significant events. In addition, foreign private issuers are not required to file an annual report on Form 20-F until 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, while U.S. domestic issuers that are accelerated filers are required to file an annual report on Form 10-K within 75 days after the end of each fiscal year. Foreign private issuers are also exempt from Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure), aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information. As a result of the above, our shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are not foreign private issuers. As a foreign private issuer and as permitted by the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, we rely on certain home country governance practices rather than the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. We are a foreign private issuer. As a result, in accordance with the listing requirements of the NYSE, we rely on home country governance requirements and certain exemptions thereunder rather than relying on the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. See “Item 16G. Corporate Governance.” Accordingly, our shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are not foreign private issuers. 32 Table of Contents We are not obligated to and do not comply with all the best practice provisions of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. As a Dutch company we are subject to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, or DCGC. The DCGC contains both principles and best practice provisions for management boards, supervisory boards, shareholders and general meetings of shareholders, financial reporting, auditors, disclosure, compliance and enforcement standards. The DCGC applies to all Dutch companies listed on a government-recognized stock exchange, whether in the Netherlands or elsewhere, including the NYSE. The principles and best practice provisions apply to our management board and our supervisory board (in relation to role and composition, conflicts of interest and independency requirements, board committees and remuneration), shareholders and the general meeting of shareholders (for example, regarding anti-takeover protection and obligations of the Company to provide information to its shareholders) and financial reporting (such as external auditor and internal audit requirements). We do not comply with all the best practice provisions of the DCGC. See “Item 16G. Corporate Governance.” This may affect the rights of our shareholders, who may not have the same level of protection as shareholders in a Dutch company that fully complies with the DCGC. Our ordinary shares are not traded on any exchange outside the United States. Our ordinary shares are listed only in the United States on the NYSE and we have no plans to list our ordinary shares in any other jurisdiction. As a result, a holder of our ordinary shares outside the United States may not be able to effect transactions in our ordinary shares as readily as the holder may if our securities were listed on an exchange in that holder’s home jurisdiction. We may not be able and currently have no intention to pay further dividends for the foreseeable future. Payment of future dividends may be made only if our equity exceeds the amount of the paid-in and called-up part of the issued share capital, increased by the reserves required to be maintained by law or by our articles of association. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. Also, our credit agreement restricts the payment of dividends to holders of our ordinary shares. As a result, we currently have no intention to pay dividends. Accordingly, investors cannot rely on dividend income from our ordinary shares and any returns on an investment in our ordinary shares will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation in the price of our ordinary shares. Raising additional capital by issuing securities may cause dilution to existing shareholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may in the future seek the additional capital necessary to fund acquisitions through public or private equity offerings. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our existing shareholders will be diluted, unless pre-emptive rights are granted, and the terms of such securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our shareholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Certain holders of our ordinary shares may not be able to exercise pre-emptive rights and as a result may experience substantial dilution upon future issuances of ordinary shares. Holders of our ordinary shares in principle have a pre-emptive right with respect to any issue of ordinary shares or the granting of rights to subscribe for ordinary shares, unless explicitly provided otherwise in a resolution by the general meeting of shareholders or by a resolution of our management board with the approval by our supervisory board. Our general meeting of shareholders has empowered our management board, with the approval by our supervisory board, to limit or exclude pre-emptive rights on shares for a period of eighteen 33 Table of Contents months from the closing of our IPO, which could cause existing shareholders to experience substantial dilution of their interest in us. Claims of U.S. civil liabilities may not be enforceable against us. We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands and substantial portions of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, the members of our management board, certain members of our supervisory board, certain members of our senior management and certain experts named herein reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such other persons residing outside the United States, or to enforce outside the United States judgments obtained against such persons in U.S. courts in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, rights predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws. There is no treaty between the United States and the Netherlands for the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the U.S. federal securities laws, would not be enforceable in the Netherlands unless the underlying claim is re-litigated before a Dutch court of competent jurisdiction. Under current practice however, a Dutch court may be expected to recognize the binding effect of a final, conclusive and enforceable money judgment of a federal or state court in the United States without re-examination or re-litigation of the substantive matters adjudicated thereby, if (i) that judgment resulted from legal proceedings compatible with Dutch notions of due process, (ii) that judgment does not contravene public policy of the Netherlands and (iii) the jurisdiction of the U.S. federal or state court has been based on internationally accepted principles of private international law. Based on the foregoing, there can be no assurance that U.S. investors will be able to enforce against us or members of our management board or supervisory board, officers or certain experts named herein who are residents of the Netherlands or countries other than the United States any judgments obtained in U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, there is doubt as to whether a Dutch court would impose civil liability on us, the members of our management board or supervisory board, our officers or certain experts named herein in an original action predicated solely upon the U.S. federal securities laws brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the Netherlands against us or such members, officers or experts, respectively. We may not be able to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting our shareholders to Dutch withholding tax. Dutch dividend withholding tax may be levied on dividends and similar distributions made by us to our shareholders at the statutory rate of 15%. If dividend distributions are structured as a repayment of capital or a repurchase of shares, Dutch withholding tax may still be due at 15%. Such repayment of capital or repurchase of shares will be exempt from dividend withholding tax only in limited circumstances. See also “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation” below. 