D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our new games may not be commercially successful and we may not be able to attract new players. We cannot assure you that new games we license or develop will be commercially successful. You should not use the success of our existing games as an indication of the future commercial success of any of the games in our pipeline. There are many factors that could adversely affect the popularity of our new games, including: • our ability to anticipate and adapt to future technology trends, new business models and changed game player preferences and requirements; 6 Table of Contents • our ability to efficiently operate the game and resolve technical difficulties and player complaints; • our ability to plan and organize marketing and promotional activities; and • our ability to differentiate our new games from our existing games and other games offered by other companies. In addition, though many new games are regularly introduced, only a relatively small number of “hit” titles accounts for a significant portion of total revenue for the industry. For example, in 2013, 35.0% of our revenue was derived from Joyful Da Ying Jia and other card and board games in our “Joyful” series. If we fail to launch new games according to our timetable or at all or if our new games are not commercially successful, our business prospects and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected and we may not be able to recover our game licensing or development costs, which can be significant. Further, many of our new games, especially social games, require significant build-up periods during which players are first introduced to the games and the rise in popularity of some games can be slow, if it happens at all. Thus, if a game that we anticipate gaining acceptance by our players fails to do so, we may not be able to realize this failure until several months after the game has been released, and if we do not introduce additional games to maintain our player base, the failure of recently introduced games to gain popularity could affect our ability to retain existing or attract new players. Further, if a build-up period coincides with the inevitable phasing-out period of our older games, the result could be a decrease in the number of total paying users or total subscriptions as well as revenue during that period. We may not be able to retain existing players. In order to retain players and compete against our competitors, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development to develop new products, improve existing products and enhance player experience. We may not be able to maintain our player base if our products and services do not meet the needs of our players or are not effectively or timely marketed. We cannot guarantee that our mobile games will continue to sustain their current level of popularity, and our players may lose interest in our games over time despite our efforts to improve and upgrade our mobile games. If we are not able to maintain or extend the commercial lifespan of our mobile games, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Also, we have from time to time received user complaints with regards to fee collection and technical problems, among others. If we are unable to address these and other complaints in a timely manner, we may lose existing players and become unable to attract new players. Any material decrease in our existing players that is not compensated by a corresponding increase in new players could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our ability to license new games. We license many of our mobile games, including some of our most popular games, from third parties. In 2012 and 2013, we derived 17.6% and 50.9% of our net revenues, respectively, from games that were licensed from third parties including a small number of games that we purchased. Choosing which games to license requires a high degree of judgment and we cannot guarantee that the games we license will generate profit. The failure of a particular licensed game may result in a significant write-down or write-off of game licensing fees. We must maintain good relationships with our licensors to ensure the continued smooth operation of our licensed games. Additionally, we depend upon our licensors to provide technical support necessary for the operation of the licensed games, as well as updates and expansion packs that help to sustain interest in a game. Moreover, certain marketing activities often require the consent of our licensors. Our licenses may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as a material breach by us. While the licenses with game developers generally are for a term that covers the life of the game, we may want to 7 Table of Contents extend a license upon its expiration but may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our licensors may also demand new revenue-sharing terms that are unacceptable to us. Our ability to continue to license our games and to maintain good relationships with our licensors also affects our ability to license new games developed by the same licensors. We are dependent on our ability to internally develop new games. We must continue to successfully develop new games in-house to expand our game portfolio and introduce updates and expansion packs to extend the commercial lifespans of our games. Our ability to develop successful new games will largely depend on our ability to: • attract, retain and motivate talented game development personnel; • minimize launch delays and cost overruns in the development of new games; • effectively monetize mobile games without degrading the game experience for our players; and • effectively execute our game development plans. In-house development requires a substantial initial investment prior to the launch of a game, as well as a significant commitment of future resources to produce updates and expansion packs. Our ability to introduce successful updates and expansion packs for our games will also depend on our ability to collect and analyze user behavior data and feedback from our online community in a timely manner and to effectively incorporate features into our updates and expansion packs to improve the variety and attractiveness of our virtual items. We cannot assure you that we will be able to collect and analyze player behavior data on a timely basis or that such data will accurately reflect player behavior. We are dependent on relationships with chipset manufacturers and handset companies. We work with a chipset manufacturers to pre-install our Game Center application and mobile games. For example, Mediatek Inc., or Mediatek, the largest integrated circuit design company in Asia and one of the ten largest integrated circuit design companies in the world, pre-installed our Game Center application on its chipsets. The chipsets that have our pre-installed content are sent to handset companies who can choose to disable our content or allow it to remain available to end-users. We cannot guarantee that handset companies will allow our content to remain available for end-users. We also rely directly on handset companies to pre-install our games and Game Center application on smartphones. We have direct agreements with many handset manufacturers and design houses, and these agreements are generally for terms of one year and generally contain automatic renewal provisions. These agreements usually do not prohibit handset companies from installing applications and content from other mobile game developers. We compete with other mobile game developers for limited space in chipsets or more prominent display of our games to players. In addition, we have entered into an agreement with Shenzhen Hengdarui Technology Co., Ltd., or Hengdarui, to arrange the pre-installation of the Android version of our mobile games on the handsets produced or designed by handset companies and design houses that are Hengdarui’s customers. Pursuant to the cooperation agreement, payment to Hengdarui is determined by a profit-sharing formula, by reference to the number of activated accounts or the number of successful installations of our games from the app stores in the handsets. Unfavorable changes to our relationship with chipset manufacturers, handset companies and Hengdarui could materially and adversely affect our prospects, financial conditions and results of operations. Due to our reliance on chipset manufacturers and handset companies to install our games and Game Center application, any deterioration in our relationship with these companies, our failure to establish cooperation with 8 Table of Contents additional companies, particularly those with a substantial market share or growth potential, or our failure to maintain a good relationship with these companies would result in a decrease in the number of handsets pre-installed with our game and Game Center application and adversely affect our market share. We are dependent on relationships with app stores, web platforms and social networks. We distribute our games through a number of app stores, web platforms and social networks, including Apple’s App Store, 91.com, Baidu, HiMarket, Qihoo 360, Google Play, d.cn, China Mobile’s app store, Sina Weibo mobile portal and UCWEB. These app stores, web platforms and social networks also serve as payment collection channels. App stores, web platforms and social networks have strong bargaining power in dealing with online game developers and operators like us. We are subject to the standard service terms and conditions of these app stores, web platforms and social networks with regard to the promotion, distribution, operation and payment methods for our online games. If any of these app stores, web platforms or social networks (i) goes out of business, (ii) discontinues its relationship with us due to any reason, such as our failure to comply with any laws or regulations in any jurisdiction where our games are offered, (iii) limits our access to its platforms, (iv) modifies its terms of services or other policies, (v) changes its fee structure, (vi) provides more favorable terms to our competitors or develop its own games, or (vii) is forced to cease the business relationship with us due to its lack of required license or permits or other regulatory compliance issues, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, we have benefited from these platforms’ widely recognized brand names and large player bases. If any of these app stores, web platforms and social networks loses its market position or otherwise falls out of favor among players or other factors cause its player base to stop growing or shrink, of if any of them fails to perform its contractual obligations to us, we would need to identify alternative platforms for marketing, promoting and distributing our online games, which would consume substantial resources and may not be effective or available. We are dependent on relationships with mobile network operators to distribute and promote our games. We use PRC mobile network operators, directly and indirectly, to distribute our products to our players. The mobile telecommunications business in China is highly concentrated, and major mobile network operators, such as China Mobile, may from time to time issue new policies or change their business practices, requesting or stating their preferences for certain actions to be taken by all mobile service providers using their networks. For example, in the past, China Mobile, the service provider for all of our game bundles, decided to decrease the number of pop-up advertisements broadcast to its users. This limited the promotion of our game bundles on China Mobile’s platform and resulted in a decline in total subscriptions for our game bundles, which adversely affected our business. The PRC government may implement new policies or change existing policies regulating the mobile telecommunications business. Such new policies or changes may cause our revenues to decrease or our operating costs to increase. We cannot assure you that PRC mobile network operators or the PRC government will not introduce additional requirements with respect to the procedures for ordering monthly subscriptions or single-transaction downloads of our mobile games, notifications to users, the billing of users or other consumer-protection measures or adopt other policies that may require significant changes in the way we promote and sell our mobile games, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on relationships with mobile network operators and mobile service providers to receive payment. We have entered into agreements with mobile service providers for proceeds collection, and these service providers in turn contract with mobile network operators, such as China Mobile and China Telecom, who provide 9 Table of Contents billing and collection services. During 2011, 2012 and 2013, 39.3%, 40.6% and 22.2%, respectively, of our mobile phone game revenues were collected through our top ten mobile service providers, the top three of which were Shenzhen Huayahexun Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Shidai Xunda Technology Co., Ltd. and Shenzhen Zhongxuntiancheng Technology Co., Ltd. during 2011, Guizhou Shanzi Information Technology Ltd., Shenzhen Givoe Technology Co., Ltd. and Beijing Leitingwanjun Network Technology Co. Ltd. during 2012, and Shenzhen Weiqite Technology Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Yicheng Computer Technology Co., Ltd. and Nanjing Zhuoxunfeng Information Consulting Co., Ltd. during 2013. The concentration of our sales through one or a few large mobile service providers and China’s dominant mobile network operators could lead to a short-term disruption in our sales if one or more of them were to reduce its offerings or cease offering our products. Such concentration also makes us more vulnerable to collection risks should one or more of these providers or operators become unable or unwilling to share the proceeds it receives with us. Also, China Mobile places content providers, including us, into different preference classes based on a series of criteria, including game performance, customer satisfaction, responsiveness and technical support, among others. Further, we have in the past been reclassified by China Mobile due to user complaints, and we may be subject to downgrades in the future. Our operations and business could be harmed if our relationships with one or more of these mobile network operators and mobile service providers deteriorates, or if one or more of the key mobile service providers experience deterioration in their business or experiences an increase in non-payment from users, or there is any disruption in the relationship between any of these mobile service providers and mobile network operators. In addition, we rely on some mobile network operators to distribute and promote certain of our games and changes in how they distribute or promote our games could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we depend on mobile network operators directly and indirectly to maintain accurate records of payments of sales proceeds by users and to collect such payments. We receive periodic statements from mobile network operators and mobile service providers that indicate the aggregate amount of fees that were charged to users for purchases of mobile game products. Our mobile service providers usually generate their periodic statements to us based on the periodic statements they receive from the mobile network operators. We generally offer mobile network operators and service providers credit terms ranging from 30 to 60 days. Receivables from China Mobile in terms of accounts receivable balances accounted for 15.2%, 8.0% and 28.0% of our total trade receivables as of December 31, 2011, 2012, and 2013, respectively. Receivables from our top ten mobile service providers in terms of accounts receivable balances accounted for 48.9%, 71.1% and 9.8% of our total trade receivables as of December 31, 2011, 2012, and 2013, respectively. Failure to timely collect our receivables from mobile network operators or mobile service providers may adversely affect our cash flows. In addition, if the mobile network operators or mobile service providers demand increase to their share of revenues under our revenue-sharing arrangement, our results of operation may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be successful in effectively promoting or developing our brands. Enhancing the awareness of our mobile game brands among players is a part of our growth strategy. We believe our future success depends on, among other things, market recognition and acceptance of, as well as our ability to promote, our CMGE brand. We market our mobile games and promote our brands through advertising and promotional programs such as online advertising. Our ability to sell our products and enhance recognition of our brands depends in part upon the success of these programs. There is no assurance that we will be able to effectively promote or develop our brand and if we fail to do so, our growth may be adversely affected. In addition, negative publicity or disputes regarding our brands, offerings, company or management could materially and adversely affect public perception of our brands. Many of the factors that affect our brands may be outside our control, such as industry participants, including handset companies and content providers working with us, tainting our brand because of the concern over the quality of such industry participants’ products and services. Any impact on our ability to effectively promote our brands or any significant damage to our brands’ image could materially and adversely affect our sales, profits and prospects. 10 Table of Contents Our efforts to expand our proprietary publishing platform may not be successful. A component of our growth strategy is to create a comprehensive gaming platform where players can download our games without going through third-party intermediaries. In furtherance of this strategy, we have developed our Game Center application through which we publish our self-developed and licensed games for Android-based smartphones. Our Game Center application and our games are also available for download on various websites that we operate. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in developing or expanding our proprietary publishing platform and players may choose to download games from other, more established publishing platforms. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history under our current business model upon which to evaluate the viability and sustainability of our business. CMGE was incorporated in the Cayman Islands as an exempted limited liability company on January 20, 2011 by VODone as its wholly-owned subsidiary. Our business was formed through three separate acquisitions undertaken by VODone in 2009 and 2010 and was operated by VODone through various subsidiaries and our variable interest entity, or VIE, until our reorganization effective August 23, 2011. We have also recently undergone two major shifts in our business model and the source of our revenue. For example: • in 2012, 30.6% of our revenue was derived from smartphone games whereas in 2013, 79.9% of our revenue was derived from smartphone games; and • in 2012, 17.6% of our revenue was derived from social games whereas in 2013, 62.9% of our revenue was derived from social games. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in evolving industries, such as the mobile game industry in China, and companies that have been formed through the combination of previously separate businesses. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: • maintain and extend our position as the leading mobile game publisher in China; • continue to offer new and creative mobile games to attract and retain a larger player base and increase user activity; • maintain and expand our distribution network; and • upgrade our technology and infrastructure to support increased traffic and expanded offerings of products and services. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We generate a majority of our revenues from sales of virtual items. If we are unable to effectively market and price these virtual items, or if this business model ceases to be commercially successful, our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Aside from game bundles, the majority of our games are free to play, and we generate a majority of our revenues from sales of virtual items, including virtual tokens and other virtual items. By allowing players to play our games without initial costs, this business model enables us to quickly attract new players to experience our games and then gradually develop their interest in purchasing our virtual items. However, the success of this business model largely depends upon whether we can attract game players to play our games and whether we can successfully encourage more players to purchase virtual items and more paying players to increase their in-game purchases. It is possible that we may not be able to market and price our virtual items effectively, or we might 11 Table of Contents fail to accurately identify and introduce new and popular virtual items or price them properly. In addition, this business model may cease to be commercially successful. There is no assurance that a sufficiently broad base of game players will continue to accept this model or that a new, competing business model will not emerge. If we fail to continue to monetize our player base through sales of in-game virtual items, our business, financial condition and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We may face increasing competition, which could reduce our market share and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The mobile game industry in China is highly competitive with low barriers to entry and we expect more companies to enter this industry and a wider range of games to be introduced. The industry is characterized by the frequent introduction of new products and services, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, rapid adoption of technological and product advancements, as well as price sensitivity on the part of players. In China, we compete directly with: • other mobile game publishers; • other mobile game developers; and • large China-based Internet companies that may develop and operate their own mobile games. Some of our games are made available to players in countries outside of China through our cooperation with mobile network operators abroad, and various app stores. Our mobile game products offered internationally are also subject to intense competition. In addition, we face competition from other media formats and mobile applications and content, such as Internet-based games, mobile music, mobile books and social network services. Some of our existing and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources and stronger relationships with industry participants than we do. Some of our competitors or potential competitors, especially major international mobile game developers, have greater mobile game development experience and resources than we have. If there are new entrants in the market or intensified competition among existing competitors, we may have to provide more incentives to industry participants, such as distributors and agents, which could adversely affect our profitability. If we fail to compete effectively, our market share could decrease and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to generate revenues could suffer if the PRC market for mobile games does not develop as anticipated. The mobile games market in China has evolved rapidly in recent years, with developments such as the introduction of new business models, the development of user preferences, the increasing popularity of smartphones over feature phones, market entry by new competitors and the adoption of new strategies by existing competitors. We expect each of these trends to continue, and we must continue to adapt our strategy to successfully compete in our market. There are numerous other technologies and business models in varying stages of development, such as portable tablet computers, netbooks or other mobile Internet handsets involving fourth generation mobile technologies, which could render certain current technologies or applications obsolete. Accordingly, it is extremely difficult to accurately predict user acceptance and demand for our various existing and potential new offerings, and the future size, composition and growth of this market. Furthermore, given the limited history and rapidly evolving nature of our market, we cannot predict the price that players will be willing to pay for our mobile games or whether players will have concerns over security, reliability, cost and quality of service associated with mobile games. If acceptance of our mobile games is different than anticipated, our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and profits could be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents As social games are expected to account for a large portion of our revenues, any adverse developments relating to such content may adversely affect our results of operations. We anticipate that revenue generated from our social games will continue to account for a large portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. We are enhancing our efforts in developing and marketing social games because of the expected growth of the social game market. Accordingly, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations: • any reduction in or failure to grow the player base of the existing social games; • any decrease in popularity of the existing social games in the market or any decrease in their purchases due to intensifying competition or other factors; • any failure to make quality upgrades, enhancements or improvements to social games in a timely manner in response to user preferences; • any failure of our games to reach a critical mass of players to become popular; • any failure to develop and launch new social games that appeal to players; • any failure to efficiently operate social games and provide effective customer service; • any failure to comply with regulatory requirements with respect to social games; or • any breach of related software security, prolonged server interruption due to network failures, hacking activities or other factors or any other adverse developments relating to social games. In addition, we currently derive the majority of our revenue from social games even though the number of social games in our portfolio is far less than the number of single-player games. As we shift to licensing and developing a smaller number of higher revenue-generative games, we are exposed to concentration risks in the event that certain of these social games are not successful. Our strategy of acquiring and investing in complementary businesses, assets and technologies may result in operating difficulties, dilution to our investors and other negative consequences. As part of our business strategy, we have successfully acquired, and intend to continue to selectively acquire and invest in, businesses, assets and technologies that complement our existing business, including (i) acquisitions of companies, businesses, intellectual property rights, and other assets, (ii) minority investments in strategic partners, and (iii) investments in new interactive mobile game businesses. Acquisitions and investments involve uncertainties and risks, including: • accurately evaluating potential acquisition targets and identifying acquisition targets with operations complementary to our existing operations; • potential ongoing financial obligations and unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • retaining key employees and maintaining the key business relationships with players of the businesses we acquire; • failure to achieve the intended objectives, benefits or revenue enhancement; • costs and difficulties of integrating acquired businesses and managing a larger business; • the need to integrate an acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting; • the possibility that, before the acquisition or investment, we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse impact on the value of the businesses we acquire or invest in; 13 Table of Contents • significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizeable acquisition and increased capital expenditures; • the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; and • diversion of resources and management attention. Our failure to address these risks successfully may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any such acquisition or investment may require a significant amount of capital investment, which would decrease the amount of cash available for working capital or capital expenditures. Furthermore, if we use our equity securities to pay for acquisitions, we may dilute the value of the ADSs and the underlying Class A ordinary shares. Our shareholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. If we borrow funds to finance acquisitions, such debt instruments may contain restrictive covenants that could, among other things, restrict us from distributing dividends. Our failure to anticipate or successfully implement new technologies could render our mobile games uncompetitive or obsolete, and reduce our revenues and market share. The mobile applications industry is subject to rapid technological change, which requires us to anticipate well in advance, which technologies we must implement and take advantage of in order to make our mobile game products competitive in the market. We also need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in order to make our technologies, product offerings and development capabilities competitive in the market. However, development activities are inherently uncertain, and we might encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our development results. Our expenditures on research and development may not generate commensurate benefits. Given the fast pace with which mobile games technology has been and will continue to develop, we may not be able to timely improve our technologies in an efficient and cost-effective manner, or at all. New technologies in our industry could render the technologies and product offerings that we are developing or expect to develop in the future obsolete or uncompetitive, thereby potentially resulting in a decline in our revenues and market share. Undetected programming errors or flaws in our mobile game products could harm our reputation or decrease market acceptance of our products. Our mobile games are subject to frequent improvement and updates and may contain errors or flaws that may become apparent only after the updated applications are accessed by mobile users, particularly as we launch new updates under tight time constraints. From time to time, our players may inform us of programming flaws affecting their experience, and we are generally able to resolve such flaws promptly. However, if for any reason, programming errors or flaws are not resolved in a timely fashion, we may lose some of our players and our revenues will be affected negatively, and our reputation and market acceptance of our mobile games may also be harmed. In addition, the PRC government has promulgated rules and regulations targeting mobile service providers that charge for applications and other content without user consent. If a programming error or flaw in our products inadvertently charges players without consent, we may be subject to administrative penalties and fines. Network interruptions caused by system failures or other internal or external factors may lead to player attrition and revenue reduction and harm our business and reputation. Any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of our network and computer infrastructure may cause significant harm to our reputation and our ability to attract and maintain players. We have experienced server interruption lasting from several minutes to a few hours. Any server interruptions, break-downs or system failures, including failures which may be attributable to events within or 14 Table of Contents outside our control that could result in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of our services, could adversely impact our ability to service our players and lead to player attrition and revenue reduction. Our network systems are also vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, fire, flood, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer hacking and similar events. The growth of our business may be adversely affected due to breaches of our security measures and unintended disclosures of our intellectual property or our customer data. As we conduct our business on mobile handsets only, we are collecting and storing an increasing amount of customer data. We rely on proprietary encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential user information, such as user names and passwords. It is possible that our security controls over customer data may not prevent the improper disclosure of personal information. A party who is able to circumvent these security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. A security breach that leads to disclosure of customer account information (including mobile numbers or other personal information) could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to prevent such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. We may also lose current or potential players of our mobile games that require the collection of customer data because of the perception that we cannot adequately protect our players’ privacy. Additionally, our business operation may be harmed by players’ concerns over playing games on their mobile phones. For instance, malware has been disguised as popular mobile games on Android devices. The malware will subscribe to the paid services without user’s consent thus resulting in fraudulent charges to players. Concerns over the security and privacy of user information may inhibit the wireless business generally, and our mobile games in particular. There can be no assurance that our security measures will prevent security breaches or that players’ interest in playing mobile games would continue if we experienced problems with malware. Failure to prevent security breaches or players’ concerns over mobile phone malware may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We could be liable for breaches of security of payment processing agents, which may have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. In addition to collection through China Mobile and mobile service providers, currently a large portion of our revenues is collected through payment processing agents, who help us collect sales proceeds through third-party payment channels such as prepaid cards and bank remittances. Although our payment processing agents have not historically collected a significant volume of sales proceeds, going forward, we plan to increasingly utilize these payment processing agents. In transactions utilizing third-party payment channels, secured transmission of confidential information, such as players’ card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, over wireless networks, the Internet and/or third-parties’ databases, is essential to maintain consumer confidence. We do not have control over the security measures of third-party payment channels and we cannot assure you that their security measures are adequate or will be adequate with the expected increased usage of their payment channels. Security breaches of these payment channels could expose us to litigation and possible liability for failure to secure customer transaction data and could harm our reputation and ability to attract players and encourage players to pay through these third-party payment channels. Changes or adjustments we make to our existing or new games may not be well received by our game players. As we develop new games or introduce updates and expansion packs to our existing games, we closely monitor our game players’ tastes and preferences and may introduce or change certain game features or game play styles to make our games more attractive. We cannot assure you that these changes or adjustments will be well received by our game players, who may decide not to play our new games or cease playing our existing games. As a result, any changes or adjustments we make to existing or new games may adversely impact our revenues and business prospects. 15 Table of Contents Our business is subject to the risks associated with international operations. As of December 31, 2013, we operated two games in overseas jurisdiction, and plan to increase this number in the future. Expanding our business internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • our ability to select the appropriate geographical regions for international expansion; • our ability to localize games and adapt them to local preferences; • protecting our intellectual property rights overseas and managing the related costs; • receiving payments from our games; • compliance with different legal regimes; • difficulty in identifying appropriate partners and establishing and maintaining good cooperation relationships with them; • difficulty in understanding local market and culture; and • increased costs associated with doing business in foreign jurisdictions. These and other risks associated with international activities could also significantly affect our financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions applicable to us, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. Any such violations could individually or in the aggregate materially and adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. We rely on a small portion of our total players for nearly all of our revenue. Compared to all players who play our games in any period, only a small portion are paying players. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we had 113.1 million new registered users of social games but only 7.7 million paying users of social games. In order to sustain our revenue levels, we must attract, retain and increase the number of players or more effectively monetize our players. We must devote significant resources to retain our players’ interest in our games and attract them to our other games. If we fail to grow or sustain the number of our players, or if the rates at which we attract and retain players declines or if the average amount that our players pay declines, our business may not grow and our financial results will suffer. Our success depends on the continuing and collaborative efforts of our management team and other key personnel, and our business may be harmed if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of our key management team. If one or more of our executives or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, and our business may be disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Competition for management and key personnel is intense, the pool of qualified candidates is limited, and we may not be able to retain the services of our executives or key personnel, or attract and retain experienced executives or key personnel in the future. If any of our executives or other key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose players, distributors, know-how and key personnel. Each of our executive officers and key employees has entered into an employment agreement with us that contains confidentiality provisions. If any disputes arise between any of our executives or key personnel and us, we cannot assure you the extent to which any of these agreements may be enforced. 16 Table of Contents We rely on highly skilled personnel. If we are unable to retain or motivate them or hire additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our performance and future success depend on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. We will need to continue to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in the mobile games industry for qualified employees is intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. As competition in the mobile games industry intensifies, it may be more difficult for us to hire, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel. While our game development engines help protect us from potential interruptions in our operations due to loss of development personnel, if we do not succeed in attracting additional highly skilled personnel or retaining or motivating our existing personnel, we may be unable to grow effectively. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. We have applied for the registration of the “Joygame” trademark in China. As of December 31, 2013, we had registered 30 copyrights with the State Copyright Bureau of the PRC, for software we developed or acquired from third parties. The protection of intellectual property rights in China may not be as effective as those in the United States or other countries. We have in the past discovered some players had illegally modified our games so that they could access our games for free. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our technology or unauthorized use of our brands or products. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our technologies, or unauthorized access of our products could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies or products without compensating us. Moreover, unauthorized use of our technology could enable our competitors to offer products and services that are comparable to or better than ours, which could harm our business and competitive position. From time to time, we may have to enforce our intellectual property rights and brands through litigation. Such litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Third parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights, which could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from promoting our products and services. We have not received any claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, but may in the future receive such claims. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract our management from day-to-day operations. If we fail to successfully defend against such claims, we could be required to make unavailable or redesign our mobile games, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our players. Any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Also, if we acquire technology to include in our products from third parties, our exposure to infringement actions may increase because we must rely upon these third parties to verify the origin and ownership of such technology. This exposure to liability could result in disruptions to our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may lose investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We are subject to reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, and related rules require a public company to include a management report on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, under 17 Table of Contents Section 404(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our annual report on Form 20-F following the date on which we cease to qualify as an “emerging growth company” under the Securities Act, which may be up to five fiscal years following the date of the September 2012 listing of our ADSs. In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. The material weakness identified was identical to the one identified during the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our company’s financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and corrected on a timely basis. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, effectively prevent fraud and operate as a public company. The material weakness relates to insufficient personnel with U.S. GAAP expertise in the preparation and review of the financial statements and related disclosures in accordance with U.S. GAAP and Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, requirements. We have taken initiatives to improve and will continue to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls. For details on these initiatives, please see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.” However, the implementation of these initiatives may not fully address the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the process of designing and implementing an effective financial reporting system is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to employ significant resources to maintain a financial reporting system that satisfies our reporting obligations. Our failure to remediate the material weakness or our failure to discover and address any other material weaknesses or deficiencies may result in inaccuracies in our financial statements or delay the preparation of our financial statements. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the trading price of the ADSs, may be materially and adversely affected. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting could also expose us to increased risk of fraud or misappropriations of corporate assets and subject us to potential delisting from the stock exchange on which the ADSs are listed, regulatory investigations or civil or criminal sanctions. If we are required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets, our financial condition and results may be materially and adversely affected. When we acquire a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is generally allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the amounts assigned to the fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed of acquired businesses. As of December 31, 2013, goodwill represented RMB564.8 million (US$93.3 million), or 55.0% of our total shareholders’ equity, and other net intangible assets represented RMB86.9 million (US$14.4 million), or 8.5% of our total shareholders’ equity. Management performed impairment assessment annually and we recognized an impairment loss of nil in goodwill and RMB2.6 million (US$0.4 million) in intangible assets in 2013. Under current accounting standards, if we determine that goodwill or intangible assets are further impaired, we will be required to write down the value of such assets and recognize corresponding impairment charges. We may make additional acquisitions in the future, and if we do so, goodwill and intangible assets may comprise a significant percentage of our shareholders’ equity. As such, any write-down related to such goodwill and intangible assets may adversely and materially affect our shareholders’ equity and financial results. We may need additional capital, and we may be unable to obtain such capital in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, or at all. To grow our business and remain competitive, we may require additional capital. Our ability to obtain additional capital is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; 18 Table of Contents • general market conditions for capital raising activities by companies offering Internet and mobile products and services; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and internationally. We may be unable to obtain additional capital in a timely manner or on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, our future capital needs and other business reasons could require us to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We have limited insurance coverage which could expose us to significant costs and business disruption. We maintain various insurance policies to safeguard against risks and unexpected events for our properties. However, as the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, insurance companies in China currently offer limited business-related insurance products. We do not maintain business interruption insurance, key-man life insurance, or insurance policies for certain of our properties. Any disruption in our network infrastructure or business operations, litigation or natural disaster may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to prevent us from any loss and there is no certainty that we will be able to successfully claim our losses under our current insurance policy on a timely basis, or at all. If we incur any loss that is not covered by our insurance policies, or the compensated amount is significantly less than our actual loss, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure As our largest shareholder, VODone controls the outcome of our shareholder actions, and may thereby limit our ability to undertake any corporate action that requires shareholder approval, such as obtaining additional financing or making acquisitions. VODone holds, directly or indirectly, 48.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares, including all of our Class B ordinary shares, representing 81.8% of the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares. Its shareholding gives it the power to pass ordinary resolutions, thereby giving VODone effective control over a majority of our corporate actions (including appointment of directors) and, for so long as it holds more than two-thirds of the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares, to pass special resolutions, which are required to effect important corporate actions including removing directors, approving a merger, changing our name, amending our constitutional documents and winding up our company. Even if VODone ceases to own or control more than 50% of our shares or voting power of our outstanding shares, for so long as it continues to have a substantial equity interest in us, it may, as a practical matter, be in a position to control many or all of our actions. Significant corporate actions, including the incurrence of material indebtedness, the issuance of a material amount of equity securities or significant strategic changes in our business, may be effected by our board of directors without the consent of our shareholders. VODone might oppose any action that would dilute its equity interest in us, and may be unable or unwilling to participate in our future financings. VODone, as our majority shareholder with the right to appoint directors to our board of directors, could block any such action and thereby materially harm our business or prospects. In addition, if VODone provides shareholder support to us in the form of shareholder loans or provides credit support by guaranteeing our obligations, they may become our creditors with different interests than shareholders with only equity interests in us. The concentration of controlling ownership of our shares may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of the ADSs. We may have conflicts of interest with VODone and, because of VODone’s controlling ownership interest in us, may not be able to resolve such conflicts on terms favorable to us. Conflicts of interest may arise between VODone and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Potential conflicts of interest that we have identified include, among others, competing for 19 Table of Contents employee recruiting and retention and allocation of business and investment opportunities. There may be conflicts of interest arising from the ownership of VODone stock and options by members of our board and management, notwithstanding the duty of loyalty these persons owe us. Also, VODone may decide to sell all or a portion of the shares that it holds in us to a third-party and give that third-party substantial influence over our business and our affairs. Such a sale could be contrary to the interests of certain of our stakeholders, including our employees or our public shareholders. Our chairman, Lijun Zhang, is also the founder, chairman and a major shareholder of VODone. VODone may from time to time make strategic decisions that it believes are in the best interests of its business as a whole, including its stake in us. These decisions may be different from the decisions that we would have made on our own and may not be aligned with the interests of our shareholders. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts and, even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. On October 21, 2011, we entered into a non-compete agreement with VODone under which VODone agreed not to, among other things, engage, or assist any of its other subsidiaries in engaging, in the mobile game development and operation, and handset design business. However, so long as VODone continues to control us, we may not be able to bring a legal claim against VODone in the event of contractual breach, notwithstanding our contractual rights under the non-compete agreement. Even if the non-compete agreement is enforced, we may not receive adequate remedies from courts in China or elsewhere. To comply with PRC laws and regulations limiting foreign ownership of telecommunication and online cultural businesses, we conduct a substantial portion of our businesses through our VIEs in China by means of contractual arrangements. If the PRC government determines that these contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, our business could be materially and adversely affected. The PRC government restricts foreign investment in telecommunication and online cultural businesses. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations—Regulations on Telecommunications Industry” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations—Regulations on Online Games and Cultural Products.” In light of these restrictions, we conduct a significant portion of our business activities through our VIEs, Guangzhou Yingzheng Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Yingzheng and Shenzhen Lanyue Internet Technology Co., Ltd., or Lanyue. Although we do not have any equity interest in our VIEs, we are able to exercise effective control over our VIEs and receive substantially all of the economic benefits of its operations through various contractual arrangements with Yingzheng, Lanyue and their respective registered shareholders. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—A. History and Development of the Company—Our Contractual Arrangements with VIEs.” On July 13, 2006, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of the PRC, or the MIIT, issued the “Circular on Strengthening Administration of Foreign Invested Value-Added Telecommunications Business Operation,” or the MIIT Circular. The MIIT Circular emphasizes that a foreign investor planning to invest in the PRC value-added telecommunications sector must set up a foreign-invested enterprise and apply for the applicable telecommunications business operating license. Further, a domestic value-added telecommunications services provider cannot lease, transfer or sell any telecommunications business operating license to a foreign investor, or provide resources, sites, facilities or other conditions to a foreign investor for its illegal operation of a telecommunications business in China. Due to a lack of interpretative materials from the regulators, it is currently unclear what impact the MIIT Circular will have on us or other companies that have adopted similar corporate and contractual structures. On September 28, 2009, General Administration of Press and Publication, or GAPP, the National Copyright Administration and the National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications jointly published the Notice Regarding the Consistent Implementation of the “Stipulations on Three Provisions of the State Council and the Relevant Interpretations of the State Commission Office for Public Sector Reform and the Further Strengthening of the Administration of Pre-examination and Approval of Internet Games and the Examination 20 Table of Contents and Approval of Imported Internet Games,” or the GAPP Notice. The GAPP Notice prohibits foreign investors from participating in online game operating businesses through foreign-invested enterprises in China, and from controlling and participating in such businesses of domestic companies indirectly through other forms of joint ventures or contractual or technical support arrangements. As no detailed interpretation of the GAPP Notice has been issued to date, it is not clear how the GAPP Notice will be implemented. Furthermore, as some other primary government regulators, such as the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, Ministry of Culture, or MOC, and MIIT, did not join GAPP in issuing the GAPP Notice, the scope of the implementation and enforcement of the GAPP Notice remains uncertain. According to Regulations on the Main Functions, Internal Organization and Staffing of GAPP issued by the General Office of the State Counsel on July 11, 2008 and its interpretation circulars, GAPP is authorized to approve online games before their launch on the Internet, while the MOC is authorized to administer and regulate the overall online game industry. Once an online game is launched on the Internet, it will be regulated only by the MOC, and if an online game is launched on the Internet without the prior GAPP approval, the MOC is the authority responsible for investigating the matter. We thus believe GAPP is unlikely to take action against our contractual arrangements with our VIEs based solely on the GAPP Notice and without participation from other PRC governmental authorities, including the MOC. Effective on March 22, 2013, GAPP and the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television merged into one entity, namely, the State General Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television, or, SAPPRFT, which oversees China’s press, publication, radio, film and TV sectors. Our PRC legal advisor, Guantao Law Firm, is of the opinion that (i) our ownership structure is in compliance with PRC law; (ii) the contractual arrangements are valid and legally binding and enforceable and do not result in any violation of PRC law; and (iii) there are, however, uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of the MIIT Circular and GAPP Notice or any other current and future PRC laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that the PRC regulatory authorities that regulate the online game industry, in particular, the MIIT and SAPPRFT, the PRC courts or arbitration institutions will ultimately take a view that is consistent with the opinions of our PRC legal adviser. If we are found to be in violation of the MIIT Circular, the GAPP Notice or any other PRC laws or regulations, or if we fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals under our VIE arrangements, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including revoking the business and operating licenses of our VIEs, levying fines, confiscating our income or the income of our VIEs to the extent that such income is related to the violation, discontinuing or restricting all or any portion of our operations or the operations of our VIEs or taking other regulatory or enforcement actions. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Should our ownership structure under the current VIE arrangement be challenged by the PRC authorities while the foreign investment restrictions over the telecommunications sector remain in effect, we would need to restructure our ownership structure. In that case, we may still be able to (i) develop mobile games in China and own the copyright for those games; (ii) grant to our VIEs, or any other Chinese company that possesses necessary regulatory licenses, copyright licenses to operate our games in China and collect royalties from our VIEs or such other Chinese company; (iii) use our technology, expertise and experience to provide technical services and support to Yingzheng in exchange for service fees; and (iv) require the registered shareholders of our VIEs to pledge their equity interests in our VIEs in favor of us to secure our VIEs performance under these agreements. However, following such a restructuring we would not be able to adopt or rely on VIE arrangements and would thus be unable to exercise effective control over our VIEs. Such a loss of control could result in disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, we may not be able to consolidate our VIEs’ financial results in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP due to the lack of sufficient control over our VIEs after such restructuring, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our contractual arrangements with our VIEs and their respective shareholders may not be as effective in providing control over the entity as direct ownership. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, our VIEs and their respective subsidiaries contributed in aggregate 21.2%, 19.0% and 43.6% of our total net revenues, respectively. Our contractual arrangements with our VIEs and their 21 Table of Contents respective shareholders may not be as effective in providing us with control over our VIEs as direct ownership. If our VIEs and their respective shareholders fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may incur substantial costs and resources enforcing these arrangements, and rely on legal remedies available under applicable PRC laws, including seeking specific performance and claiming damages. In particular, if shareholders of our VIEs refuse to transfer their equity interests to us or our designated persons when we exercise the purchase option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, we may need to initiate legal actions to compel them to fulfill their contractual obligations. If the applicable PRC authorities invalidate our contractual arrangements for violation of PRC laws, rules and regulations, or our VIEs or their respective shareholders terminate the contractual arrangements or fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, part of our mobile game businesses in China would be materially disrupted, and the value of our ordinary shares would decrease substantially. Furthermore, if we fail to renew these contractual arrangements upon their expiration and the relevant foreign investment restrictions remain effective, we would not be able to continue our mobile game business. In addition, if our VIEs declare bankruptcy or if all or part of their assets become subject to court injunctions or asset freezes or liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our VIEs undergo a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, their respective shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of its assets and we would have to rely on their registered shareholders with whom we have contractual arrangements to protect our rights. The occurrence of any of these events may hinder our ability to operate part of our mobile game business, which could in turn materially harm our business and our ability to generate revenues and cause the market price of our ADSs to decline significantly. The shareholders of our VIEs may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. The registered shareholders of Yingzheng are Yongchao Wang, De Liang and Feng Zheng, who are each directors and employees of the company. The registered shareholders of Lanyue are Ken Jian Xiao and Xiongfei Liu. Ken Jian Xiao is our chief executive officer and Xiongfei Liu, who holds a 1% interest in Lanyue, is an independent third-party. Conflicts of interest may arise between these shareholders’ duties to us and our VIEs. If such conflicts arise, these shareholders may not act in our best interests and conflicts of interest may not be resolved in our favor. In addition, these shareholders may breach or cause our VIEs to breach or refuse to renew its existing contractual arrangements that allow us to exercise effective control over it and to receive economic benefits from it. If certain shareholders of our VIEs do not comply with their fiduciary duties to us as our designated directors, or if we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and such shareholders or any future beneficial owners of our VIEs, we would have to rely on legal proceedings to remedy the situation, which could result in disruption of our business and substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. Further, these remedies may not always be effective, particularly in light of uncertainties in the PRC legal system. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. Since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our VIEs and their shareholders. Contractual arrangements we have entered into may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities, and a finding that we or our VIEs owe additional taxes could reduce our net income and the value of your investment. Under applicable PRC tax laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities within five years (or ten years in special cases) after the 22 Table of Contents taxable year when the arrangements or transactions are conducted. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities were to determine that the contractual arrangements with our VIEs and their respective shareholders were not entered into on an arm’s-length basis and therefore constituted unfavorable transfer pricing arrangements. Unfavorable transfer pricing arrangements could, among other things, result in an upward adjustment in taxation. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose interest on late payments on our VIEs for the adjusted but unpaid taxes. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if our VIEs’ tax liabilities increase significantly or if they are required to pay interest on late payments. We face uncertainty regarding the PRC tax reporting obligations and consequences for certain indirect transfers of the stock of our operating companies. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or Circular 698, issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation on December 10, 2009, where a foreign investor transfers the equity interests of a PRC resident enterprise indirectly by way of the sale of equity interests of an overseas holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that: (i) has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or (ii) does not tax foreign income of its residents, the foreign investor should report such Indirect Transfer to the competent tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise. The PRC tax authority will examine the true nature of the Indirect Transfer, and if the tax authority considers that the foreign investor has adopted an abusive arrangement in order to avoid PRC tax, they will disregard the existence of the overseas holding company and re-characterize the Indirect Transfer and as a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at the rate of up to 10%. In addition, the PRC resident enterprise is supposed to provide necessary assistance to support the enforcement of Circular 698. There is little guidance and practical experience regarding the application of Circular 698, and we have not reported and it is not clear that we are required to report our offshore restructuring transactions, which were completed prior to the distribution, to the PRC tax authorities. It is possible that the PRC tax authorities would pursue our offshore enterprise shareholders to conduct a filing regarding our offshore restructuring transactions and request our PRC subsidiaries to assist in providing such disclosures. In addition, if our offshore subsidiaries are deemed to lack substance, they could be disregarded by the PRC tax authorities. As a result, we and our non-resident investors would be at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or such non-resident enterprise investors’ investments in us. MOFCOM may determine that our contractual arrangements are subject to their national security review and if they determine that our contractual arrangements are in violation of national security regulations, our business could be materially and adversely affected. On August 25, 2011, MOFCOM promulgated the Regulations on Implementation of Security Review System for the Merger and Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the MOFCOM Security Review Regulations, which became effective on September 1, 2011, to implement the Circular by General Office of State Council on Establishment of Security Review System for the Merger and Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated on February 3, 2011, or the Security Review Circular. According to the Security Review Circular, if a targeted domestic enterprise is engaged in industries (such as defense sector, important agriculture products, important energy and resources, important infrastructure, important transportation services, key technologies and material equipment manufacturers) having a national security concern and the merger or acquisition will result in foreign investor’s acquiring actual control of the domestic enterprise, the transaction is subject to security review. According to the MOFCOM Security Review Regulations, MOFCOM will focus on substance and the actual impact of the transaction when deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition is subject to security review. If MOFCOM decides that a specific merger or acquisition is subject to security review, it will submit it to the Inter-Ministerial Panel, an authority established under the Security Review Circular led by the National Development and Reform Commission and MOFCOM under the leadership of the State Council, to carry out security review. The regulations prohibit foreign investors from bypassing the security 23 Table of Contents review by structuring transactions through trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. There is no explicit provision or official interpretation stating that the merging or acquisition of a company engaged in the mobile games business requires security review, and there is no requirement that acquisitions completed prior to the promulgation of the Security Review Circular are subject to MOFCOM review. We acquired actual control over Yingzheng prior to promulgation of the Security Review Circular and the MOFCOM Security Review Regulations, so we do not believe we are required to submit our existing contractual arrangement with Yingzheng to MOFCOM for security review. We believe our current business operated in the PRC does not fall within the industries having a national security concern under the Security Review Circular and our contractual arrangement with Lanyue is not subject to MOFCOM’s security review. However, we have been advised by our PRC legal counsel, Guantao Law Firm, that as the Security Review Circular and the MOFCOM Security Review Regulations are relatively new and there is no clear statutory interpretation of them, there can be no assurance that MOFCOM will have the same view as we do when applying the national security review requirements. If MOFCOM takes the view that we are required to submit our existing contractual arrangement for review by them and the Inter-Ministerial Panel’s review, and if the Inter-Ministerial Panel determines that our contractual arrangement impacts or may impact national security, MOFCOM will, at the request of the Inter-Ministerial Panel and in collaboration with relevant departments, terminate our arrangement or take other effective measures, such as an equity transfer or assets transfer, so as to eliminate the impact of our contractual arrangement on national security. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, should MOFCOM take any of these actions, we may not be able to consolidate our VIEs’ financial results in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP due to lack of sufficient control over our VIEs after such restructuring, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Regulation of Our Services and Products The laws and regulations regulating mobile games in China continue to evolve and change. If we fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits and approvals, our business and operations would be materially and adversely affected. We are required to obtain licenses, permits and approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to conduct our business. We have obtained the Internet Publishing License from SAPPRFT, which authorizes the release of our existing and future online mobile game products over the Internet, and the Online Culture Operation License from the MOC, which is required for the operation of online mobile games. In addition, PRC laws and regulations require that all online mobile games that we develop and that we license from other PRC developers be approved by SAPPRFT and filed with the MOC. For games that we license from third parties in the PRC, these approval and filing requirements can be completed by the third-party game developer. If, however, the third-party fails to complete this approval and filing requirement, we are obliged to complete such requirements. In addition, the online games authorized by overseas developers shall be examined and approved by SAPPRFT and the MOC. We are in the process of obtaining SAPPRFT approvals and filing with the MOC for the games we currently operate in the PRC and have successfully filed some games with the MOC. In addition, we are also in the process of applying for the approvals from SAPPRFT and the MOC for certain games we license from overseas developers. Due to the short game lifespan of many mobile games, it may not be practicable for us to apply for the approval from SAPPRFT or register with the MOC for many of our mobile games, which process can take several months. If any of our PRC operating companies fails to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals or if our practice is later challenged by government authorities, they may be subject to various penalties, including without limitation, fines, being ordered to rectify the situation, confiscation of illegal revenues and the discontinuation of, or restriction on, our operations. Any such disruption in business operations would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As mobile games are at an early stage of development in China, new laws and regulations may be adopted or amended from time to time that require licenses and permits beyond those we currently have. These regulations may also restrict our ability to expand our customer and player base or to provide services in 24 Table of Contents additional geographic areas. Substantial uncertainty exists regarding the implementation and interpretation of the current PRC laws and regulations applicable to the operation of mobile games, and as new laws and regulations are passed, their implementation and interpretation may also be uncertain or unfavorable to our business and operations. We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to obtain all required permits, licenses and approvals in a timely manner, or at all, and any failure to do so could result in penalties, or a requirement to curtail or cease operating all or part of our business, any of which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may be subject to regulations concerning electronic publications and be required to obtain approvals and licenses or change our business model regarding certain preinstalled single-player mobile games which could disrupt our operations, require a costly restructuring of our business or adversely affect our ability to roll out and operate new or existing preinstalled single-player mobile games. On February 21, 2008, GAPP issued the Regulations on Administration of the Publishing of Electronic Publications, or the Electronic Publications Regulations, which became effective from April 15, 2008. The Electronic Publications Regulations require that a company wishing to publish “electronic publication” must obtain an Electronic Publications Publishing License from GAPP, and that the electronic games to be published must be approved by, or filed with, GAPP. There are no interpretative materials, specific instructions or detailed implementation rules in respect of requirements or procedures for applying for the license or approvals or making filings in respect of electronic publication and accordingly, we have so far not obtained such license, approvals or made such filings. We have had meetings with GAPP officials during which we informed them of our business model regarding our single-player mobile games that are preinstalled on mobile devices and are not operated online. They informed us that by their legal nature these preinstalled single-player mobile games may be deemed as electronic publications and therefore are theoretically subject to the Electronic Publications Regulations; however, GAPP has to date never regulated the publication of single-player mobile games. During the meetings, the GAPP officials did not object to our current business model regarding preinstalled single-player mobile games. Furthermore, we believe GAPP is aware that many companies in China provide preinstalled or offline single-player mobile games to the public without these approvals and licenses, and we are unaware of any instance in which GAPP has penalized any company for its failure to obtain the approvals and licenses. The GAPP officials further informed us that prior to promulgating and implementing any new regulations to clarify the regulatory framework for both online and offline mobile games, GAPP is unlikely to take regulatory or enforcement actions against such companies. Effective on March 22, 2013, GAPP and the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television merged into one entity, SAPPRFT, which oversees China’s press, publication, radio, film and TV sectors. SAPPRFT may begin requiring mobile game companies, such as us, to obtain approval under the Electronic Publications Regulations and impose penalties for any past non-compliance. SAPPRFT may take enforcement action against us if it finds any game content to be in violation of any content restrictions issued by the PRC government. If SAPPRFT adopts regulations or other rules to enforce the Electronic Publications Regulations against entities that develop, publish, preinstall in handsets or distribute single-player mobile games, we may be required to obtain approvals and licenses and/or change our current business model regarding our preinstalled single-player games. Any failure to obtain the necessary approvals and licenses in a timely manner or at all could delay or prevent us from rolling out and operating new or existing preinstalled single-player mobile games. In addition, we may be required to restructure our operations to comply with such requirements by entering into a contractual arrangement with a non-foreign invested entity which holds the Electronic Publications Publishing License and entrusting such entity to file all preinstalled single-player games developed by Huiyou Digital (Shenzhen) Ltd., or Huiyou, with SAPPRFT for its approval. Such a restructuring could be costly and disruptive to our business and would expose us to the risks associated with such arrangements. See “—Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure—To comply with PRC laws and regulations limiting foreign ownership of telecommunication and online cultural businesses, we conduct a substantial portion of our businesses through our VIEs in China by means of contractual arrangements. If the PRC government determines that these contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, our business could be materially and adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents Huiyou, our subsidiary, has historically operated online mobile games and is currently promoting certain of our online mobile games to handsets companies and design houses. If the PRC government determines that a license or permit is required for these activities, we might be subject to regulatory sanctions. PRC laws and regulations require that an entity should obtain an Internet Publishing License and an Online Culture Operation License from the relevant PRC government authorities in order to operate in online mobile game business. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations—Regulations on Online Games and Cultural Products.” However, our PRC subsidiary, Huiyou, has historically operated certain online mobile games without obtaining the required licenses from the relevant PRC government authorities, which may expose us to penalties and other administrative actions that may have a material adverse effect upon our business. Currently, Huiyou is developing mobile games, including certain online mobile games. Once an online mobile game it has developed is ready to be commercialized, Huiyou licenses the game to Yingzheng, our VIE, which operates the game in its own name, and receives royalties from Yingzheng. Yingzheng currently holds all of the required licenses and certificates for online mobile game operations and is responsible for all aspects of operating the game, including server maintenance, user registration and regulatory filings and approvals. Yingzheng entrusts Huiyou to enter into contracts with handset companies and design houses to pre-install the licensed game in handsets, and with other mobile service providers for the collection of payments from end-users, for which Yingzheng pays commissions to Huiyou. Mobile network operators and service providers are responsible for collecting payments from game players and for paying the contracted portion of the payments to Huiyou, who receives them on behalf of Yingzheng, the operator of the game. Huiyou then shares the payments it receives with Yingzheng, according to their cooperation agreement. Our PRC legal advisor, Guantao Law Firm, is of the opinion that this current business model does not violate applicable PRC laws and regulations because (i) Huiyou develops online mobile games and promotes such games to handsets companies and design houses but it is not engaged in the operation of such games; (ii) Huiyou licenses Yingzheng to operate such games in its own name and Yingzheng holds all necessary licenses and certificates for online mobile game operations; (iii) Huiyou keeps royalties and commissions for its copyright license and promotional services while Yingzheng receives from Huiyou revenues for operating the games; and (iv) there are no explicit provisions in PRC laws or regulations requiring Huiyou to obtain any approval or license in order to develop online mobile games, grant copyright licenses or provide promotional services, as contemplated by its cooperation agreement with Yingzheng. However, the relevant PRC governmental authorities may deem the activities of Huiyou described above to be the operation of online games without obtaining the required licenses, which may subject us to penalties, require us to make costly changes to our business model and materially disrupt our business. Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the Internet and wireless telecommunication networks in China may adversely affect our business, and the mobile service providers with which we cooperate may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from, or linked to their platforms. China has enacted regulations governing telecommunication mobile service providers, Internet and wireless access and the distribution of news and other information over the Internet and wireless telecommunication networks. Under these regulations, mobile content publishers like us are prohibited from posting or displaying over the Internet or wireless networks content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China, or is obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. Throughout the history of our industry, many mobile games have been designed to include certain hidden content and game features that are accessible through the use of in-game cheat codes or other technological means that are intended to enhance the gameplay experience. We have implemented preventive measures designed to reduce the possibility of hidden, objectionable content from appearing in the mobile games we publish. However, these preventive measures are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. 26 Table of Contents Meanwhile, when Internet and mobile service providers find that any obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory information is transmitted on their platforms, they are required to terminate the transmission of such information or delete such information immediately, keep records, and report to relevant authorities. Mobile network operators like China Mobile, China Telecom and China Unicom also have their own policies prohibiting or restricting the distribution of inappropriate content. On December 15, 2009, the MIIT issued the Notice Regarding Plan for Further Regulating Obscene Materials on Mobile Phones, or Circular 672. Under Circular 672, mobile network operators are required to examine their business, promotional channels, as well as the business of their partners, and must immediately terminate such business if any obscene material is involved. Mobile service providers involved in distributing or publishing such obscene materials on mobile handsets are subject to immediate suspension or termination of cooperation with mobile network operators, and a violation will be reported to relevant authorities. Mobile network operators and mobile service providers must examine all websites accessed through mobile handsets and conduct full daily inspection of such websites. If any obscene material is found, access and transmission must cease and be reported to authorities. On June 3, 2010, the MOC issued the Online Game Measures, which became effective on August 1, 2010, according to which companies that plan to engage in the operation of online games, issuance of virtual currency and provision of virtual currency transaction services shall obtain a license from the provincial counterpart of the MOC. Online and mobile game operators are required to establish a self-censorship mechanism and ensure the lawfulness of the content of their games and corporate operations. On August 12, 2013, the MOC issued the Administrative Rules on Content Review by Internet Culture Operating Entities, which became effective on December 1, 2013, according to which companies operating internet culture business shall have personnel with the required qualification certificate to conduct content review on their products before they provide the products to the public, and they shall keep the content review records for at least two years. As these regulations are relatively new and subject to interpretation by the relevant authorities, it may not be possible for us to determine in all cases the type of content that could result in liability for us as a mobile game developer and operator. In addition, we may not be able to control or restrict the content of other content providers linked to or accessible through our mobile service providers. To the extent that regulatory authorities find any portion of the applications and content on our mobile service providers objectionable, they may require them to limit or eliminate the dissemination of such information or otherwise curtail the nature of such content on our mobile service providers, which may reduce our user traffic, which in turn decrease access to and downloading of our mobile games. If we are required to comply with or are found to violate any laws or regulations governing virtual currency, prepaid card issuance and usage, online payment or money laundering, we may have to obtain additional licenses or approvals, be forced to change our current business practice, or be subject to certain penalties. In January 2007, the MPS, MOC, MIIT and GAPP jointly issued a circular regarding online gambling which has implications for the use of virtual currency. The circular (a) prohibits online game operators from charging commissions in the form of virtual currency in relation to winning or losing of games; (b) requires online game operators to impose limits on use of virtual currency in guessing and betting games; (c) bans the conversion of virtual currency into real currency or property; and (d) prohibits services that enable game players to transfer virtual currency to other players. On June 4, 2009, MOC and MOFCOM jointly issued a notice regarding strengthening the administration of online game virtual currency, or Virtual Currency Notice, The Virtual Currency Notice prohibits online game operators from setting game features that involve the direct payment of cash or virtual currency by players for the chance to win virtual items or virtual currency based on random selection through a lucky draw, wager or lottery. Besides, the notice also prohibits game operators from issuing currency to game players through means other than purchases with legal currency. On June 3, 2010, the MOC issued Interim Measures for Online Games Administration, or the Online Game Measures, which became effective on August 1, 2010, aiming to further strengthen the MOC’s supervision of the online game industry, including the issuance and trade of virtual currency in online games. According to the Online Game Measures, an online game operator who issues or provides the trading services for the virtual currency must obtain a license for 27 Table of Contents Internet culture operation from the MOC. Further, the Online Game Measures also provides, among other things, that virtual currency issued by online game operators may be only used to exchange its own online game products and services and may not be used to pay for the products and services of other entities. The issuance of virtual currency is permitted under Yingzehng’s Internet Culture Business License. However, if our current or future operations are found to violate the Virtual Currency Notice and Online Game Measures or any other related regulations, our business and financial condition, operation results and business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could negatively impact China’s overall economic growth, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects depend significantly on economic developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most other countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement in the economy, the general level of economic development, growth rates and government control of foreign exchange and the allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has grown significantly over the past few decades, this growth has remained uneven across different periods, regions and economic sectors. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth by allocating resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Between late 2003 and 2008, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as increasing the People’s Bank of China’s, or the PBOC’s, statutory deposit reserve ratio and imposing commercial bank lending guidelines, which slowed the growth of credit. In 2008 and 2009, however, in response to the global financial crisis, the PRC government loosened such requirements. Any actions and policies adopted by the PRC government or any prolonged slowdown in China’s economy, in particular the mobile applications industry, could have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways. For example, our players may decrease spending on our offerings, while we may have difficulty expanding our player base fast enough, or at all, to offset the impact of decreased spending by our existing players. We may rely on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries in China to fund our cash and financing requirements, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could materially and adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. As an offshore holding company, we may rely principally on dividends from our subsidiaries in China for our cash requirements, including to pay dividends or make other distributions to our shareholders or to service our debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. In particular, the PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our PRC subsidiaries is required each year to set aside at least 10% of its annual after-tax profits (as determined under PRC accounting standards) into its statutory reserve fund until the aggregate amount of that reserve reaches 50% of such entity’s registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. If our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own behalf, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends or other payments to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. 28 Table of Contents PRC regulation of loans to, and direct investments in, PRC entities by offshore holding companies may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of any offering to make loans or capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and ability to fund and expand our business. We may transfer funds to our PRC subsidiaries or finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of shareholder’s loans or capital contributions upon completion of an offering. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries, which are foreign-invested enterprises, cannot exceed statutory limits based on the gap between the registered capital and the total amount of the investments in such subsidiaries, and shall be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, or its local counterparts. Furthermore, any capital contributions we make to our PRC subsidiaries shall be approved by the MOFCOM or its local counterparts. We may not be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to provide loans or capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. In addition, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues concerning Administration Improvement of Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-invested Enterprises, or Circular 142, on August 29, 2008. Under Circular 142, registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies may only be used within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments in the PRC, unless otherwise provided by PRC laws. In addition, foreign-invested companies may not change how they use such capital without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case use such capital to repay Renminbi loans if they have not used the proceeds of such loans. Furthermore, SAFE promulgated a circular on November 9, 2010, or Circular 59, which requires the authenticity of settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings to be closely examined and the net proceeds to be settled in the manner described in the offering documents. SAFE further promulgated the Circular on Further Clarification and Regulation of the Issues Concerning the Administration of Certain Capital Account Foreign Exchange Businesses, or Circular 45, on November 16, 2011, which expressly prohibits foreign-invested enterprises from using the registered capital settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies to grant loans through entrustment arrangements with a bank, repay inter-company loans or repay bank loans that have been transferred to a third-party. Circular 142, Circular 59 and Circular 45 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from an offering to our PRC subsidiaries and convert the net proceeds into Renminbi, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business in the PRC. Pursuant to a supplementary agreements entered into between 3GUU BVI and Yingzheng and a supplementary agreement entered into between China Wave Group Limited, or China Wave, and Lanyue, 3GUU BVI and China Wave, are obligated to provide Yingzheng and Lanyue, respectively, with continuing financial support to meet the capital demands of their business operations. Under the current PRC law and policies regarding foreign direct investment and foreign debt, there are only limited means for an offshore company to provide financial support to a domestic PRC company. Currently, the only way that 3GUU BVI and China Wave are able to provide financial support to Yingzheng and Lanyue is by providing a guarantee for Yingzheng and Lanyue to secure RMB loans from a bank within the PRC, if Yingzheng and Lanyue can meet the criteria set out in the detailed guidance issued by SAFE under the Administrative Measures on Foreign Debts Registration effective from May 13, 2013. Furthermore, pursuant to the Administrative Measures on Foreign Debts Registration, 3GUU BVI’s and China Wave’s provision of guarantees to Yingzheng and Lanyue, respectively, is subject to approval from SAFE, which has broad discretion whether to grant approval and which approval will specify the maximum loan amount that Yingzheng and Lanyue can obtain using the guarantee. We may not be able to obtain approval from SAFE or the other required authorities on a timely basis, or for the amount required by Yingzheng and Lanyue using the guarantees, or at all, which could impact our ability to provide financial support to Yingzheng and Lanyue. 29 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate. Exchange rates are affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions and the foreign exchange policy adopted by the PRC government. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies. Following the removal of the U.S. dollar peg, the Renminbi has appreciated significantly against the U.S. dollar. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against foreign currencies. On June 20, 2010, the PBOC announced that the PRC government would reform the Renminbi exchange rate regime and increase the flexibility of the exchange rate. We cannot predict how this new policy will impact the Renminbi exchange rate. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in the Renminbi, and a significant portion of our financial assets are also denominated in the Renminbi. Any significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the amount of and any dividends we may pay on the ADSs in U.S. dollars. In addition, any fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar could also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes. Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively and affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi. Under our current corporate structure, our Cayman Islands holding company primarily relies on dividend payments from our wholly-owned PRC subsidiaries in China, Huiyou, OWX (Beijing) Technology Co., Ltd., or OWX Beijing, and Guangzhou Yitongtianxia Software Development Co., Ltd, or Yitongtianxia, to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—A. History and Development of the Company” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—C. Organizational Structure.” Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior SAFE approval by complying with certain procedural requirements. Therefore, Huiyou, OWX Beijing and Yitongtianxia may pay dividends in foreign currency to us without pre-approval from SAFE. However, approval from or registration with competent government authorities is required where the Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. With the prior approval from SAFE, cash generated from the operations of our PRC subsidiary may be used to pay off debt they owe to entities outside China in a currency other than the Renminbi. The PRC government may at its discretion restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currencies to satisfy our foreign currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of the ADSs. Uncertainties in the PRC legal system could materially and adversely affect our business. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries and VIEs in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. 30 Table of Contents In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general, and forms of foreign investment (including wholly foreign-owned enterprises and joint ventures) in particular. These laws, regulations and legal requirements, including those governing PRC tax matters, are relatively new and amended frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement often raise uncertainties that could limit the reliability of the legal protections available to us. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violations of these policies and rules until the violations have occurred. Furthermore, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management’s attention. We cannot predict future developments in the PRC legal system. We may be required to procure additional permits, authorizations and approvals for our operations, which we may not be able to obtain. Our inability to obtain such permits or authorizations may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, might have been required in connection with the listing and trading the ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market. Pursuant to the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the New M&A Rules, an offshore special purpose vehicle formed for purposes of overseas listing and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals shall obtain CSRC approval prior to listing and trading its securities on an overseas stock exchange. On December 14, 2006, the CSRC published procedures for special purpose vehicles to obtain approval of overseas listings. The procedures include filing documents with the CSRC and take several months to complete. The application of this new PRC regulation remains unclear. Based on the advice we received from our PRC legal counsel, Guantao Law Firm, we did not seek CSRC approval in connection with the listing as our PRC legal counsel was of the opinion that such approval was not required because we are not an offshore special purpose vehicle controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals as defined by the New M&A Rules. However, we cannot assure you that PRC government authorities, including the CSRC, will reach the same conclusion as our PRC legal counsel. If the CSRC or other PRC government authorities determine that prior CSRC approval was required, any future registered offering will be delayed until we obtain the approval from the CSRC, which may take several months or longer. If a prior approval from the CSRC is required but not obtained, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory authorities. These regulatory authorities may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from future offerings into the PRC, or take other actions that could materially and adversely affect our business or the trading price of the ADSs. The CSRC or other PRC regulatory authorities may also require us, or make it advisable for us, to halt an offering before settlement and delivery of the ADSs offered. Consequently, if investors engage in market trading or other activities in anticipation of and prior to settlement and delivery, they do so at the risk that settlement and delivery may not occur. A failure by the beneficial owners of our shares who are PRC residents to comply with certain PRC foreign exchange regulations could restrict our ability to distribute profits, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities and subject us to liability under PRC law. SAFE has promulgated several regulations, including the Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment Through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 75, effective on November 1, 2005, and the Notice on Printing and Distributing the Implementing Rules for Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Roundtrip Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Circular 19, effective from July 1, 2011 and repealed in May 2013, and the Notice on Further Improvement and Amendment of Foreign Exchange Administration Policies on Direct Investments, or Circular 59, effective on December 17, 2012. These regulations require PRC residents (including any PRC citizen) and PRC corporate entities to 31 Table of Contents register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. In the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. These regulations apply to our direct and indirect shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. In practice, however, different local SAFE branches may have different views on application and implementation of the SAFE regulations and we cannot assure you that all of our beneficial owners that are PRC residents will be able to register or update the registration of their direct and indirect equity interest in us as required. If they fail to make or update the registration, our PRC subsidiaries could be subject to fines and legal penalties, and SAFE could restrict our cross-border investment activities and our foreign exchange activities, including restricting our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to, or obtain loans denominated in foreign currencies from, our company, or prevent us from paying dividends. As a result, our business operations and our ability to make distributions to you could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to comply with the registration requirements for employee share option plans may subject our PRC equity incentive plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In January 2007, SAFE issued implementing rules for the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. In addition, Circular of the SAFE on Relevant Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals’ Participating in the Share Incentive Schemes of Overseas-Listed Companies, or Circular 7, was promulgated by the SAFE on February 15, 2012. In accordance with Circular 7, PRC residents who are granted shares or share options by an overseas publicly-listed company under a share incentive scheme are required, through the PRC subsidiary of the overseas publicly-listed company, to entrust a PRC agent to register with SAFE or its local office and complete certain procedures relating to the share incentive schemes. A PRC agent can be one of the PRC subsidiaries participating in the share incentive scheme or another institution qualified to hold the assets as designated by the PRC subsidiary and in accordance with PRC laws. We and our PRC employees who receive shares under the stock option plan are subject to these regulations. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. We may be classified as a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, which could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementation rules, both effective from January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a PRC resident enterprise and is subject to a 25% enterprise income tax on its global income. The implementation rules further define the term “de facto management bodies” as establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting and properties of an enterprise. The State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, which sets out certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise is located in China. Although such circular only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreign individuals, the determining criteria set forth in 32 Table of Contents Circular 82 may reflect the SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises, PRC enterprise groups or by PRC or foreign individuals. As a result, we cannot assure you that the SAT will not implement Circular 82 or amend the rules in the future to the effect that such rules will apply to us or any of our overseas subsidiaries. The SAT issued the Administrative Measures on Enterprise Income Tax of Foreign-Incorporated Chinese-Controlled Resident Enterprises (Trial), or Bulletin 45, on July 27, 2011, which will take effect from September 1, 2011. According to these measures, in the event that the PRC authorities subsequently determine that we should be treated as a resident enterprise and ever decide to issue the Resident Enterprise Recognition Letter for Foreign-Incorporated Chinese-Controlled Enterprises to us, we are required to handle all tax matters according to the rules governing PRC resident enterprises for the enterprise income tax purpose from the year when such letter is issued to us. In addition, Bulletin 45 specifies that when provided with a copy of a Resident Enterprise Recognition Letter, the payer should not withhold 10% income tax when paying Chinese-sourced dividends, interest and royalties to the offshore incorporated PRC resident enterprise. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our company or any of our overseas subsidiaries is a PRC resident enterprise for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, our company or our subsidiaries outside of China will be subject to the uniform enterprise income tax rate of 25% as to our global income as well as tax reporting obligations. Second, although dividends paid by one PRC tax resident to another PRC tax resident should qualify as “tax-exempt income” under the PRC New EIT Law, there is no assurance that we would enjoy such tax exempt treatment on dividend paid to us from our PRC subsidiary as offshore incorporated PRC resident enterprise controlled by PRC enterprise or corporate group enjoy under Bulletin 45. As a result, such dividend may continue to be subject to a 10% withholding tax. Finally, dividends payable by us to our investors and gain on the sale of our shares may become subject to PRC withholding tax. Any change in the tax treatment we currently enjoy in the PRC may materially and adversely impact our net income. Our PRC subsidiaries are incorporated in the PRC and are governed by applicable PRC income tax laws and regulations. The New EIT Law and its implementing rules, both of which came into effect on January 1, 2008, impose a statutory rate of 25% on PRC enterprises. However, the New EIT Law also permits enterprises to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, adjusted by certain transitional phase-out rules, under which enterprises established before the promulgation date of the New EIT Law that were granted tax holidays under the then effective tax laws or regulations may continue to enjoy their tax holidays until their expiration. Preferential tax treatments and incentives granted to us by PRC governmental authorities are subject to review and may be adjusted or revoked at any time in the future. While the PRC enterprise income tax is generally imposed based on actual taxable income, some of our subsidiaries pay enterprise income tax based on a deemed profit calculation. Shenzhen Qilewuxian Software Development Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Yikechuanghui Technology Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Zhongtuokechuang Technology Co., Ltd., or Zhongtuo, and Shenzhen Douwan Network Technology Co., Ltd., or Douwan, paid enterprise income taxes calculated according to deemed profit rates from 6% to 10% during certain taxable periods based on documentation issued by the local tax authorities in lieu of their actual profits. However, starting from July 1, 2011 Shenzhen Yikechuanghui Technology Co., Ltd. ceased applying the deemed profits methodology as it was no longer qualified under the applicable criteria. Similarly, on January 1, 2012 and July 1, 2012 Douwan and Zhongtuo, respectively, also ceased applying the deemed profits methodology. In addition, in 2013 Shenzhen Qilewuxian Software Development Co., Ltd. did not pay tax as it had ceased operations. We cannot assure you that the local tax authorities will not, in the future, change their position and discontinue any of our current tax treatments, potentially with retroactive effect. The discontinuation of any of our current tax treatments could materially increase our tax obligations and adversely impact our net income. The New EIT Law will affect tax exemptions on dividends to be paid by our PRC subsidiaries to us through our Hong Kong subsidiaries and we may not be able to obtain certain treaty benefits under the relevant tax treaty. We are a holding company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. We conduct substantially all of our business and derive all our income through our PRC subsidiaries. Prior to January 1, 2008, dividends 33 Table of Contents derived by foreign enterprises from business operations in China were not subject to the PRC enterprise income tax. However, under the New EIT Law and its implementation rules, dividends payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its shareholders that are “non-resident enterprises” are subject to a 10% withholding tax starting from January 1, 2008, unless such shareholders’ jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a preferential arrangement. Pursuant to the Notice of the SAT on Issuing the Table of Tax Rates on Dividends in Treatises, or Notice 112, which was issued on January 29, 2008, the Arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion, or the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong), which became effective on December 8, 2006, such withholding tax may be lowered to 5% if the PRC enterprise is at least 25% directly held by a Hong Kong enterprise. In October 2009, the SAT further issued the Notice on How to Understand and Determine the “Beneficial Owners” in Tax Treaties, or Circular 601. According to Circular 601, non-resident enterprises that cannot provide valid supporting documents as “beneficial owners” may not be approved to enjoy tax treaty benefits, and “beneficial owners” refers to individuals, companies or other organizations which are normally engaged in substantive operations. These rules also set forth certain adverse factors on the recognition of a “beneficial owner.” Specifically, they expressly exclude a “conduit company” that is usually established for the purposes of avoiding or reducing tax obligations or transferring or accumulating profits and not engaged in substantive operations such as manufacturing, sales or management, from being a “beneficial owner.” On June 29, 2012, the SAT further issued the Announcement of the SAT regarding Recognition of “Beneficial Owner” under Tax Treaties, or Announcement 30, which provides that a comprehensive analysis should be made when determining the beneficial owner status based on various factors that supported by various types of documents including the articles of association, financial statements, records of cash movements, board meeting minutes, board resolutions, staffing and materials, relevant expenditures, functions and risk assumption as well as relevant contracts and other information. As a result, dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiaries may be subject to a reduced withholding tax at a rate of 5% if our Hong Kong subsidiaries are determined to be Hong Kong tax residents and are considered to be “beneficial owners” that are generally engaged in substantive business activities and entitled to treaty benefits under the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong). Otherwise, we may not be able to enjoy the preferential withholding tax rate of 5% under the tax arrangement and therefore be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10% with respect to dividends to be paid by our PRC subsidiaries to us through our Hong Kong subsidiaries. Certain of our subsidiaries have not made all necessary contributions to social insurances and the housing fund, which could subject us to penalties, including fines and court enforcement. In accordance with the relevant laws and regulations on social security, employers in the PRC are required to make contributions to various social insurances (including medical, pension, unemployment, work-related injury and maternity insurance) and the housing fund on behalf its employees. As of December 31, 2013, certain of our subsidiaries have not made all necessary contributions to the various social insurances and the housing fund on behalf of their employees, the aggregate amount of which is RMB10.9 million (US$1.8 million), for which we have made a full provision. Our PRC legal counsel, Guantao Law Firm, has advised us that our failure to make such payments could subject us to penalties, including fines, and court enforcement. If the custodians or authorized users of our corporate chops and seals, fail to fulfill their responsibilities, or misappropriate or misuse these corporate instruments, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. The corporate chops and seals of our PRC entities are essential to our ability to enter into contracts, conduct banking business and take certain corporate actions, including registering any change to the composition of the board of directors or management with the relevant PRC authorities. In order to maintain the physical security of our corporate chops and seals, we generally store these items in secured locations accessible only to authorized personnel, who are usually members of our senior management. Although we monitor such authorized personnel, there is no assurance such procedures will prevent all instances of abuse or negligence. Accordingly, if any of our authorized personnel misuse or misappropriate our corporate chops or seals, we could experience significant 34 Table of Contents disruption to our operations. Attempts to remedy such disruption may involve expensive legal or other proceedings, and we may not prevail for a long time or at all. In particular, during any period we lose effective control of an entity as a result of such misuse or misappropriation, the business activities and economic contribution of the affected entity could be severely disrupted, or our auditor may be unable to access documents and information from such entities that may be necessary for them to complete an audit of the consolidated financial statements of our group. Risks Related to the ADSs The market price for the ADSs may be volatile. The market price of our ADSs has fluctuated since we first listed our ADSs. Since our ADSs became listed on the Nasdaq Global Market on September 25, 2012, the trading price of our ADSs have ranged from US$3.00 to US$40.31 per ADS, and the last reported trading price on March 5, 2014 was US$34.77 per ADS. The market price of the ADSs may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • regulatory developments in the mobile game industry; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results of operations; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts or the failure by securities research analysts to cover our ADSs after the listing; • negative publicity, studies or reports; • changes in conditions of Internet and mobile security industry; • changes in performance and valuation of our peer or comparable companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of new services, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in our senior management; • fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar; and • sales or anticipated sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating results of any particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially adversely affect the market price of the ADSs. Our ADSs may have a low trading volume and limited liquidity, resulting from a lack of analyst coverage and institutional interest. Our ADSs may receive limited attention from market analysts. Lack of up-to-date analyst coverage may make it difficult for potential investors to fully understand our operations and business fundamentals, which may limit our trading volume. Such limited liquidity may impede the development of institutional interest in our ADSs, could adversely affect the value of our ADSs and limit your ability to sell our ADSs. As a “controlled company” under the Nasdaq Listing Rules, we rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements, and therefore our shareholders may have less protection than if we did not rely on the controlled company exception. Because VODone, owns more than 50% of the total voting rights in our company, we are a “controlled company” under the Nasdaq Listing Rules. We rely on the “controlled company” exemption under the Nasdaq Listing Rules and are not obligated to comply with certain Nasdaq corporate governance requirements, including requirements: that a majority of our board of directors be independent directors; that we have a corporate governance and nominating committee composed entirely of independent directors; that we have a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and governance committee and the compensation committee. See “Item 16G. Corporate Governance” for more information on the differences between our corporate governance practices and those followed by domestic U.S. companies under the Nasdaq 35 Table of Contents Listing Rules. We are not required to and will not voluntarily meet all these requirements. If we are no longer a “controlled company,” we may in the future invoke the “home country” exceptions available to foreign private issuers, such as us, under the Nasdaq Listing Rules which are similar to the exemptions for controlled companies. As a result of our use of the “controlled company” exemptions, and any future use by us of the “home country” exceptions, holders of our ADSs will not have the same protection afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of Nasdaq’s corporate governance requirements. We are an “emerging growth company” and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make the ADSs less attractive to investors. As we are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, we benefit from certain exemptions from reporting requirements that apply to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. For example, we will not be required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley until up to five fiscal years after our September 2012 listing. Emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we are subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. We will cease to be an emerging growth company on the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we had US$1 billion or more in annual gross revenues, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our listing, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than US$1 billion in non-convertible debt, or (iv) the date on which we are deemed a “large accelerated filer” under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We cannot predict if investors will find the ADSs less attractive if we rely on any of the exemptions available to emerging growth companies. If some investors find the ADSs less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for the ADSs and the price of the ADSs may be more volatile. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States holders of the ADSs or ordinary shares. Based on the market value of our ADSs, the value of our assets and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe we were a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, or PFIC, for the taxable year ended December 31, 2013, and we do not expect to be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2014. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to uncertainty in several respects, and we cannot assure you the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, will not take a contrary position. A non-United States corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets) during such year is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. A separate determination must be made after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. The classification of certain of our income as active or passive, and certain of our assets as producing active or passive income, and hence whether we expect to be or will become a PFIC, depends on the interpretation of certain United States Treasury Regulations, including regulations relating to royalty income and income from intangible assets, as well as certain IRS guidance relating to the classification of assets as producing active or passive income and certain IRS guidance relating to the distinction between services income and royalties for United States federal income tax purposes. Such regulations and guidance are potentially subject to different interpretations. If the percentage of our assets treated as producing passive income increases, we may be a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2013, or we may become a PFIC for the current or one or more future taxable years. In addition, the determination of whether we expect to be or will become a PFIC will depend in part upon the value of our goodwill and other unbooked intangibles not reflected on our balance sheet (which may depend 36 Table of Contents upon the market value of the ADSs or ordinary shares) and also will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend our liquid assets. In estimating the value of our goodwill and other unbooked intangibles, we have taken into account our current market capitalization. Among other matters, if our market capitalization were to decrease below our current market capitalization, we may become a PFIC for the current or future taxable years because our liquid assets and cash (which are for this purpose considered assets that produce passive income) may then represent a greater percentage of our overall assets. Further, while we believe our classification methodology and valuation approach is reasonable, it is possible that the IRS may challenge our classification or valuation of our goodwill and other unbooked intangibles, which may result in our company being classified as a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2013, or becoming classified as a PFIC for the current or one or more future taxable years. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a United States person holds an ADS or ordinary share, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to such United States Holder. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Our dual-class ordinary share structure with different voting rights limits the ability of our shareholders to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Pursuant to our Second Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to five votes per share. We may issue Class A ordinary shares represented by ADSs in future registered offerings. Only VODone and its affiliates hold our Class B ordinary shares. Each Class B ordinary share is convertible into one Class A ordinary share at any time upon the Class B shareholder’s request. Class A ordinary shares are not convertible into Class B ordinary shares under any circumstances. Upon any transfer of Class B ordinary shares to any person or entity which is not an affiliate of the Class B shareholder, such Class B ordinary shares will automatically and immediately convert into an equal number of Class A ordinary shares. Due to the disparate voting powers attached to these two classes, as of February 20, 2014, VODone owns approximately 48.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares, representing 81.8% of our total voting power, and has considerable influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger of our company. This concentrated control limits the ability of individual holders of our ADSs to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. It is uncertain whether financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 37 Table of Contents Substantial future sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ordinary shares, the prevailing market price for our ADSs could be adversely affected. In addition, we may issue additional ordinary shares or ADSs for future acquisitions. If we pay for our future acquisitions in whole or in part with additionally issued ordinary shares or ADSs, your ownership interest in our company would be diluted and this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. Our memorandum and articles of association will contain anti-takeover provisions that could materially and adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our articles of association contain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges and relative participating, optional or special rights and their qualifications, limitations or restrictions. These preferred shares may include dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may provide rights and preferences that holders our ordinary shares or ADSs do not have. We could issue preferred shares quickly on terms that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If we issue preferred shares, the price of the ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, our amended and restated articles of association provide for a staggered board, which means that our directors are divided into three classes, with one-third of our board retiring from office and standing for re-election at each general meeting of our shareholders. Accordingly, with our staggered board, at least two annual general meetings of our shareholders are generally required in order to effect a change in a majority of our directors as a result of retirement by rotation. Our staggered board can discourage proxy contests for the election of our directors and purchases of substantial blocks of our shares by making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to take control of our board in a relatively short period of time. The depositary for our ADSs may give us a discretionary proxy to vote the Class A ordinary shares underlying our ADSs if holders of ADSs do not give voting instructions, which could adversely affect such holders’ interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, if we asked for voting instructions from the holders of ADSs but the depositary does not receive those instructions by the cutoff date it sets, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote the Class A ordinary shares underlying such ADSs as to all matters at the shareholders’ meeting unless: • we instructed the depositary we do not wish to receive a discretionary proxy; • we informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition to the particular matter; or • the particular matter would have a material adverse impact on shareholders. 38 Table of Contents The effect of this discretionary proxy is that if holders of our ADSs do not give voting instructions, they cannot prevent the Class A ordinary shares underlying their ADSs from being voted, except in the circumstances described above. This may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our Class A ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. Holders of the ADSs will not have the same voting rights as the holders of our Class A ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise their right to vote through the depositary. Holders of the ADSs will not be able to directly exercise voting rights attaching to the Class A ordinary shares represented by their ADSs. Holders of the ADSs will have the right to instruct the depositary how to vote the shares represented by the ADSs, but may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and they may not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Holders of the ADSs may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of the ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. Holders of the ADSs may be subject to limitations on transferring their ADSs. The ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems doing so expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, when we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, under any provision of the deposit agreement or for any other reason. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, our shareholders may have less shareholder rights protection than under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Second Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, the rights of minority shareholders to institute actions and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the latter of which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law than the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may encounter more difficulty in protecting their interests against actions taken by the management, the board of directors or the controlling shareholders of our company than they would as shareholders of a public company incorporated in the United States. 39 Table of Contents Holders of our ADSs may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company, and we conduct substantially all of our operations in the PRC. Substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of our ADSs to effect service of process upon our directors and officers in the United States. It may also be difficult for holders of our ADSs to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents of the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC may not recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. Furthermore, Cayman Islands or PRC courts may not be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. We are a “foreign private issuer,” and our disclosure obligations differ from those of U.S. domestic reporting companies. As a result, we may not provide holders of our ADSs the same information as U.S. domestic reporting companies or we may provide information at different times, which may make it more difficult for holders of our ADSs to evaluate our performance and prospects. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, we are not subject to the same requirements as U.S. domestic issuers. Under the Exchange Act, we are subject to reporting obligations that, to some extent, are more lenient and less frequent than those of U.S. domestic reporting companies. For example, we are not required to issue quarterly reports or proxy statements. We are not required to disclose detailed individual executive compensation information. Furthermore, our directors and executive officers will not be required to report equity holdings under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and will not be subject to the insider short-swing profit disclosure and recovery regime. As a foreign private issuer, we are also exempt from the requirements of Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure) which, generally, are meant to ensure that select groups of investors are not privy to specific information about an issuer before other investors. However, we are still subject to the anti-fraud and anti-manipulation rules of the SEC such as Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange Act. Since many of the disclosure obligations imposed on us as a foreign private issuer differ from those imposed on U.S. domestic reporting companies, holders of our ADSs should not expect to receive the same information about us and at the same time as the information provided by U.S. domestic reporting companies. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. The independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our filings made with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because it is located in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, does not undergo regular PCAOB inspection. Inspections of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve 40 Table of Contents the quality of future audits. The inability of PCAOB to inspect independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit or quality control procedures compared to those conducted by auditors outside of the PRC that are subject to PCAOB inspections. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections and they may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. We may be adversely affected by the proceedings instituted recently by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm. In December 2012, the SEC instituted proceedings under Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the SEC’s Rules of Practice against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms’ work papers related to their audits of certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) grants the SEC the authority to deny to any person, temporarily or permanently, the ability to practice before the SEC who is found by the SEC, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, to have willfully violated any such laws or rules and regulations. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, censuring these accounting firms and suspending four of the five firms from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The decision is neither final nor legally effective unless and until reviewed and approved by the SEC. On February 12, 2014, four of these PRC-based accounting firms appealed to the SEC against this decision. Accordingly, the sanction will not become effective until after a full appeal process is concluded and a final decision is issued by the SEC. The accounting firms can also further appeal the final decision of the SEC through the federal appellate courts. We are not involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against the accounting firms. However, our independent registered public accounting firm is one of the four accounting firms subject to the six month suspension from practicing before the SEC in the initial administrative law decision. We may therefore be adversely affected by the outcome of the proceedings, along with other U.S.-listed companies audited by these accounting firms. 