Item 1A. Risk Factors" for a further description of the laws and regulations that affect us.Restrictions on drilling activities intended to protect certain species of wildlife may adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate. Oil, NGL and natural gas operations in our operating areas can be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions on drilling activities designed to protect various wildlife. Seasonal restrictions may limit our ability to operate in protected areas and can intensify competition for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages when drilling is allowed. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. Permanent restrictions imposed to protect endangered species could prohibit drilling in certain areas or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures. The designation of previously unprotected species in areas where we operate as threatened or endangered could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on our exploration and production activities that could have an adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce our reserves.A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase.Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (the "NGA") exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC"). We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish whether a pipeline performs a gathering function and therefore is exempt from the FERC's jurisdiction under the NGA. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is a fact-based determination. The classification of facilities as unregulated gathering is the subject of ongoing litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress, which could cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional facilities to FERC annual reporting and daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of "greenhouse gases" could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, NGL and natural gas we produce.Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs or other mechanisms. Most cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing 41plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances corresponding with their annual emissions of GHGs. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. As the number of GHG emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. Some states have enacted renewable portfolio standards, which require utilities to purchase a certain percentage of their energy from renewable fuel sources.In addition, in December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment, because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In response to its endangerment finding, the EPA recently adopted two sets of rules regarding possible future regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act. The motor vehicle rule, which became effective in July 2010, purports to limit emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles. The EPA adopted the stationary source rule (or the "tailoring rule") in May 2010, and it became effective in January 2011. The tailoring rule established new GHG emissions thresholds that determine when stationary sources must obtain permits under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration ("PSD") and Title V programs of the Clean Air Act. On June 23, 2014, in Utility Air Regulatory Group v. EPA ("UARG v. EPA"), the Supreme Court held that stationary sources could not become subject to PSD or Title V permitting solely by reason of their GHG emissions. The Court ruled, however, that the EPA may require installation of best available control technology for GHG emissions at sources otherwise subject to the PSD and Title V programs. On December 19, 2014, the EPA issued two memoranda providing initial guidance on GHG permitting requirements in response to the Court's decision in UARG v. EPA. In its preliminary guidance, the EPA indicated it would promulgate a rule to rescind any PSD permits issued under the portions of the tailoring rule that were vacated by the Court. In the interim, the EPA issued a narrowly crafted "no action assurance" indicating it will exercise its enforcement discretion not to pursue enforcement of the terms and conditions relating to GHGs in an EPA-issued PSD permit, and for related terms and conditions in a Title V permit. On April 30, 2015, the EPA issued a final rule allowing permitting authorities to rescind PSD permits issued under the invalid regulations.In September 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the U.S., including natural gas liquids fractionators and local natural gas/distribution companies, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. In November 2010, the EPA published a final rule expanding the GHG reporting rule to include onshore oil, NGL and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. This rule requires reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities on an annual basis, with reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. In October 2015, the EPA amended the GHG reporting rule to add the reporting of GHG emissions from gathering and boosting systems, completions and workovers of oil wells using hydraulic fracturing, and blowdowns of natural gas transmission pipelines.The EPA has continued to adopt GHG regulations applicable to other industries, such as its August 2015 adoption of three separate, but related, actions to address carbon dioxide pollution from power plants, including final Carbon Pollution Standards for new, modified and reconstructed power plants, a final Clean Power Plan to cut carbon dioxide pollution from existing power plants, and a proposed federal plan to implement the Clean Power Plan emission guidelines. Upon publication of the Clean Power Plan on October 23, 2015, more than two dozen States as well as industry and labor groups challenged the Clean Power Plan in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. On February 9, 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court stayed the Clean Power Plan pending disposition of the legal challenges. Nevertheless, as a result of the continued regulatory focus, future GHG regulations of the oil and gas industry remain a possibility.In December 2015, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France. The resulting Paris Agreement calls for the parties to undertake "ambitious efforts" to limit the average global temperature, and to conserve and enhance sinks and reservoirs of GHGs. The Paris Agreement, if ratified, establishes a framework for the parties to cooperate and report actions to reduce GHG emissions.Restrictions on GHG emissions that may be imposed could adversely affect the oil and natural gas industry. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory requirements. Any GHG emissions legislation or regulatory programs applicable to power plants or refineries could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil, NGL and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that GHG emissions from oil, NGL and 42natural gas operations constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. As a result, private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury or property damages. While we are currently not a party to such litigation, we could be named in actions making similar allegations. An unfavorable ruling in any such case could significantly impact our operations and could have an adverse impact on our financial condition.Moreover, there has been public discussion that climate change may be associated with extreme weather conditions such as more intense hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornadoes and snow or ice storms, as well as rising sea levels. Another possible consequence of climate change is increased volatility in seasonal temperatures. Some studies indicate that climate change could cause some areas to experience temperatures substantially colder than their historical averages. Extreme weather conditions can interfere with our production and increase our costs and damage resulting from extreme weather may not be fully insured. However, at this time, we are unable to determine the extent to which climate change may lead to increased storm or weather hazards affecting our operations.Our oil, NGL and natural gas is sold to a limited number of geographic markets so an oversupply in any of those areas could have a material negative effect on the price we receive. Our oil, NGL and natural gas is sold to a limited number of geographic markets which each have a fixed amount of storage and processing capacity. As a result, if such markets become oversupplied with oil, NGL and/or natural gas, it could have a material negative effect on the price we receive for our products and therefore an adverse effect on our financial condition. There is a risk that refining capacity in the U.S. Gulf Coast may be insufficient to refine all of the light sweet crude oil being produced in the United States. If light sweet crude oil production remains at current levels or continues to increase, demand for our light crude oil production could result in widening price discounts to the world crude prices and potential shut-in of production due to a lack of sufficient markets despite the lift on prior restrictions on the exporting of oil and natural gas.Our operations may be exposed to significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental, health and safety requirements applicable to our business activities.We may incur significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of federal, state and local environmental, health and safety requirements applicable to our exploration, development, marketing, transportation and production activities. These laws and regulations may require us to obtain a variety of permits or other authorizations governing our air emissions, water discharges, waste disposal or other environmental impacts associated with drilling, production and transporting product pipelines or other operations; regulate the sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling, fracturing and completion processes; limit or prohibit drilling activities in certain areas and on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, frontier, seismically active areas, and other protected areas; require remedial action to prevent or mitigate pollution from former operations such as plugging abandoned wells or closing earthen pits; and/or impose substantial liabilities for spills, pollution or failure to comply with regulatory filings. In addition, these laws and regulations may restrict the rate of oil or natural gas production. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become increasingly stringent over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the suspension or revocation of necessary permits, licenses and authorizations, the requirement that additional pollution controls be installed and, in some instances, issuance of orders or injunctions limiting or requiring discontinuation of certain operations.Under certain environmental laws that impose strict as well as joint and several liability, we may be required to remediate contaminated properties currently or formerly operated by us or facilities of third parties that received waste generated by our operations regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations. In addition, accidental spills or releases from our operations could expose us to significant liabilities under environmental laws. Moreover, public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years. The trend of more expansive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations applied to the crude oil, NGL and natural gas industry could continue, resulting in increased costs of doing business and consequently affecting profitability. To the extent laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restricts drilling or imposes more stringent and costly operating, waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements, our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.See "Item 1. Business—Regulation of environmental and occupational health and safety matters" for a further description of the laws and regulations that affect us.43If we are unable to drill new allocation wells it could have a material adverse impact on our future production results.In the State of Texas, allocation wells allow an oil and gas producer to drill a horizontal well under two or more leaseholds that are not pooled. We are active in drilling and producing allocation wells. If there are regulatory changes with regard to allocation wells, the RRC denies or significantly delays the permitting of allocation wells or if legislation is enacted that negatively impacts the current process under which allocation wells are currently permitted, it could have an adverse impact on our ability to drill long horizontal lateral wells on some of our leases, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our anticipated future production.Unless we replace our oil, NGL and natural gas production, our reserves and production will continue to decline, which would adversely affect our future cash flows and results of operations.Producing oil, NGL and natural gas reservoirs are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Unless we conduct successful ongoing exploration, development and exploitation activities or continually acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will continue to decline as those reserves are produced. Our future oil, NGL and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our future cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.A decrease in our production of oil, NGL and natural gas could negatively impact our ability to meet our contractual obligations to deliver oil, NGL and natural gas and our ability to retain our leases. A portion of our oil, NGL and gas production in any region may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents, loss or unavailability of pipeline or gathering system access and capacity, field labor issues or strikes, or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions, including low oil, NGL and gas prices. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could temporarily adversely affect our cash flow. Furthermore, if we were required to shut in wells, we might also be obligated to pay shut-in royalties to certain mineral interest owners to maintain our leases.In addition, we have entered into agreements with third party shippers, including Medallion, and purchasers that require us to deliver minimum amounts of crude oil and natural gas. Pursuant to these agreements, we must deliver specific amounts, either from our own production or from oil we acquire, over the next ten years. If we are unable to fulfill all of our contractual delivery obligations from our own production, we may be required to pay penalties or damages pursuant to these agreements or we may have to purchase oil from third parties to fulfill our delivery obligations. This could adversely impact our cash flows, profit margins and net income.We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil, NGL and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil, NGL and natural gas, including the possibility of:•environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination;•abnormally pressured formations;•mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse;•fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines;•personal injuries and death;•natural disasters; and•terrorist attacks targeting oil, NGL and natural gas related facilities and infrastructure. 44Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of:•injury or loss of life;•damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;•pollution and other environmental damage and associated clean-up responsibilities;•regulatory investigations, penalties or other sanctions;•suspension of our operations; and•repair and remediation costs.We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The marketability of our production is dependent upon transportation and other facilities, certain of which we do not control. If these facilities are unavailable, our operations could be interrupted and our revenues reduced.The marketability of our oil, NGL and natural gas production depends on a variety of factors, including the availability, proximity, capacity and quality constraints of transportation and storage facilities owned by us or third parties. We do not control many of the trucks and other third-party transportation facilities necessary for the transportation of our products and our access to them may be limited or denied. Our failure to provide or obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business.Insufficient production from our wells to support the construction of pipeline facilities by our purchasers or a significant disruption in the availability of our or third-party transportation facilities or other production facilities could adversely impact our ability to deliver to market or produce our oil, NGL and natural gas and thereby cause a significant interruption in our operations. The crude oil pipelines that transport our crude oil to market have quality specifications, including a Reid Vapor Pressure ("RVP") specification. While our tank batteries and equipment are designed to deliver crude oil that meets all pipeline specifications, including RVP, there is a risk that our crude oil production at any of our tank batteries could have an RVP that exceeds the pipeline specifications. The pipelines have the right under their tariffs to request that crude oil that does not meet their quality specifications, including RVP, be shut in until such crude is brought within quality specifications. If, in the future, we are unable, for any sustained period, to implement acceptable delivery or transportation arrangements or specifications or encounter production related difficulties, we may be required to shut in or curtail production. Any such shut-in or curtailment, or an inability to obtain favorable terms for delivery of the oil, NGL and natural gas produced from our fields, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Derivatives reform legislation and related regulations could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. The July 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") provides for federal oversight of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market and mandates that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC"), the SEC, and federal regulators of financial institutions (the "Prudential Regulators") adopt rules or regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act and providing definitions of terms used in the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes margin requirements and requires clearing and trade execution practices for certain market participants and may result in certain market participants needing to curtail or cease their derivatives activities.Although some of the rules necessary to implement the Dodd-Frank Act remain to be adopted, the CFTC, the SEC and the Prudential Regulators have issued many rules to implement the Dodd-Frank Act, including a rule, which we refer to as the "Mandatory Clearing Rule," requiring clearing of hedges, or swaps, that are subject to it (currently, only certain interest rate and credit default swaps, which we do not presently have), a rule, which we refer to as the "End User Exception," establishing an "end user" exception to the Mandatory Clearing Rule, a rule, which we refer to as the "Margin Rule," setting forth collateral requirements in connection with swaps that are not cleared and also an exception to the Margin Rule for end users that are not financial end users, which exception we refer to as the "Non-Financial End User Exception," and a rule, subsequently vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia and remanded to the CFTC for further proceedings, imposing position limits. The CFTC proposed a new version of this rule, which we refer to as the "Re-Proposed Position Limit Rule," with respect to which the comment period has closed but a final rule has not been issued. 45We qualify for the End User Exception and will utilize it if the Mandatory Clearing Rule is expanded to cover swaps in which we participate, we qualify for the Non-Financial End User Exception and will not be required to post margin in connection with uncleared swaps under the Margin Rule, and the quantities under the swaps in which we participate are well within applicable limits under the Re-Proposed Position Limit Rule, so we do not expect to be directly affected by any of such rules. However, most if not all of our hedge counterparties will be subject to mandatory clearing in connection with their hedging activities with parties who do not qualify for the End User Exception and will be required to post margin in connection with their hedging activities with other swap dealers, major swap participants, financial end users and other persons that do not qualify for the Non-Financial End User Exception. In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions have enacted laws and regulations, which we refer to collectively as "Foreign Regulations" which may apply to our transactions with counterparties subject to such Foreign Regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act, the rules which have been adopted and not vacated, and, to the extent that the Re-Proposed Position Limit Rule is effected, such proposed rule could significantly increase the cost of our derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of our derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to us that we have historically used to protect against risks that we encounter in our business, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. The Foreign Regulations could have similar effects. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations and Foreign Regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity contracts related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations.Our producing properties are in a concentrated geographic area, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area.Our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Permian Basin. At December 31, 2015, all of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, water shortages or other drought-related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil or natural gas.Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate.Oil, NGL and natural gas operations in our operating areas can be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife. This limits our ability to operate in those areas and can later intensify competition during certain months for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. In addition, the Permian Basin has recently experienced severe winter weather and, as a consequence, our operating results during similar periods may ultimately be adversely affected.Our use of 2D and 3D seismic and other data, including our Earth Model, is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil, NGL and natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations.Even when properly used and interpreted, 2D and 3D seismic data and other data, such as that incorporated into our Earth Model that provide either visualization techniques and/or statistical analyses are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable geoscientists to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures or the amount of hydrocarbons. We employ 3D seismic technology with respect to certain of our projects. The implementation and practical use of 3D seismic technology is relatively unproven, which can lessen its effectiveness, at least in the near term, and increase our costs. In addition, the use of 3D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur greater drilling and exploration expenses as a result of such expenditures, which may result in a reduction in our returns. As a result, our drilling activities may not be successful or economical, and our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities in a particular area could decline.The Earth Model is reliant upon data that is subject to interpretation and is itself the product of interpretation. Therefore, there is no guarantee that the data it produces or our interpretation of that data will be correct. The Earth Model is a new process and there is no guarantee that the initial rates of correlation will be duplicated.46We often gather 3D seismic data over large areas. Our interpretation of seismic data delineates those portions of an area that we believe are desirable for drilling. Therefore, we may choose not to acquire option or lease rights prior to acquiring seismic data, and in many cases, we may identify hydrocarbon indicators before seeking option or lease rights in the location. If we are not able to lease those locations on acceptable terms, we will have made substantial expenditures to acquire and analyze 3D data without having an opportunity to attempt to benefit from those expenditures.The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services as well as fees for the cancellation of such services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.The demand for and availability of qualified and experienced personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil, NGL and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. From time to time, there have been shortages of drilling and workover rigs, pipe and other equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. In particular, in recent years the high level of drilling activity in the Permian Basin has resulted in equipment shortages in those areas. We have committed in the past, and we may in the future commit, to drilling contracts with various third parties that contain penalties for early terminations. These penalties could negatively impact our financial statements upon contract termination. Rig shortages as well as rig related fees could result in delays or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil, NGL and natural gas and secure trained personnel.Our ability to acquire additional locations and to find and develop reserves in the future may depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil, NGL and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil, NGL and natural gas industry, especially in our focus areas. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil, NGL and natural gas properties and exploratory locations and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and locations than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, other companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.Technological advancements and trends in our industry affect the demand for certain types of equipment.Technological advancements and trends in our industry affect the demand for certain types of equipment. Especially in times when commodity prices are high, the demand for drilling rigs that are able to drill horizontally in the Permian Basin increases. In addition, oil and gas exploration and production companies have increased the use of "pad drilling" in recent years whereby a series of horizontal wells are drilled in succession by walking or skidding a drilling rig at a single-site location. If we are unable to secure such rigs in a timely or cost-efficient manner it could have a material adverse effect on our business.The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect operations.We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel, including Randy Foutch, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals.A significant reduction by Warburg Pincus of its ownership interest in us could adversely affect us.Warburg Pincus is our largest stockholder and two members of our board of directors are affiliates of Warburg Pincus. As of December 31, 2015, Warburg Pincus owned 41.0% of our outstanding common stock. We believe that Warburg Pincus' substantial ownership interest in us provides them with an economic incentive to assist us to be successful. However, Warburg Pincus is not obligated to maintain its ownership interest in us and may elect at any time to change its ownership position in our stock. If Warburg Pincus sells all or a substantial portion of its ownership interest in us, Warburg Pincus may have less incentive to assist in our success and its affiliates that are members of our board of directors may resign. Such actions could 47adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategies, which could adversely affect our cash flows or results of operations.We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions of properties.The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including:•recoverable reserves;•future oil, NGL and natural gas prices and their applicable differentials;•timing of development;•capital and operating costs; and•potential environmental and other liabilities.The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. Our assessment will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an "as is" basis. Even in those circumstances in which we have contractual indemnification rights for pre-closing liabilities, it remains possible that the seller will not be able to fulfill its contractual obligations. Problems with properties we acquire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may incur significant additional amounts of debt.As of February 16, 2016, we had total long-term indebtedness of $1.5 billion. In addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, in the future. The restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness contained in the indentures governing our Senior Unsecured Notes and in our Senior Secured Credit Facility are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our existing debt levels, the related risks that we face would increase and may make it more difficult to satisfy our existing financial obligations. In addition, the restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness contained in the indentures governing the Senior Unsecured Notes apply only to debt that constitutes indebtedness under the indentures.We may incur more taxes and certain of our projects may become uneconomic if certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development are eliminated as a result of future legislation.Legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted, eliminate certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. In addition, the President of the United States recently proposed adding a $10.25 per Bbl tax on crude oil produced in the United States. It is unclear whether any of the foregoing changes will actually be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. Any such change or similar other change could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by increasing the costs we incur which would in turn make it uneconomic to drill some locations if commodity prices are not sufficiently high, resulting in lower revenues and decreases in production and reserves.Loss of our information and computer systems could adversely affect our business.We are heavily dependent on our information systems and computer based programs, including our well operations information, seismic data, electronic data processing and accounting data. If any of such programs or systems were to fail or create erroneous information in our hardware or software network infrastructure or we were subject to cyberspace breaches or attacks, possible consequences include our loss of communication links, inability to find, produce, process and sell oil, NGL and natural gas and inability to automatically process commercial transactions or engage in similar automated or computerized business activities. Any such consequence could have a material adverse effect on our business.48Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber-security threats, and other disruptions.As an oil and natural gas producer, we face various security threats, including cyber-security threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable, threats to the safety of our employees, threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or third-party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines, and threats from terrorist acts. Cyber-security attacks in particular are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and protect against these threats and to mitigate our exposure to such threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient in preventing security threats from materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Risks relating to our common stockThe concentration of our capital stock ownership among our largest stockholder will limit other stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters.As of December 31, 2015, Warburg Pincus owned 41.0% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, Warburg Pincus has significant influence over all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership limits the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters.Furthermore, conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us, on the one hand, and Warburg Pincus and its affiliates, including its portfolio companies, on the other hand, concerning among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities. Warburg Pincus LLC is a private equity firm that has invested in, among other things, companies in the energy industry. As a result, Warburg Pincus' existing and future portfolio companies which it controls may compete with us for investment or business opportunities. These conflicts of interest may not be resolved in our favor.We have also renounced our interest in certain business opportunities. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, we renounce any interest or expectancy in any business opportunity, transaction or other matter in which Warburg Pincus or any private fund that it manages or advises, any of their respective officers, directors, partners and employees, and any portfolio company in which such persons or entities have an equity interest (other than us and our subsidiaries) (each, a "specified party") participates or desires or seeks to participate and that involves any aspect of the energy business or industry, even if the opportunity is one that we might reasonably have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue if granted the opportunity to do so, and no such specified party shall be liable to us for breach of any fiduciary or other duty, as a director or officer or controlling stockholder or otherwise, by reason of the fact that such specified party pursues or acquires any such business opportunity, directs any such business opportunity to another person or fails to present any such business opportunity, or information regarding any such business opportunity, to us. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we do not renounce any interest or expectancy in any business opportunity, transaction or other matter that is offered in writing solely to (i) one of our directors or officers who is not also a specified party or (ii) a specified party who is one of our directors, officers or employees and is offered such business opportunity solely in his or her capacity as our director, officer or employee. By renouncing our interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that from time to time may be presented to Warburg Pincus and its affiliates, our business and prospects could be adversely affected if attractive business opportunities are procured by such parties for their own benefit rather than for ours.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware state law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may adversely affect the market price of our capital stock.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could adversely affect the voting power or economic value of our shares. 49In addition, some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including:•limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings;•a separate vote of 75% of the voting power of the outstanding shares of capital stock in order for stockholders to amend the bylaws in certain circumstances; •our board of directors is divided into three classes with each class serving staggered three-year terms;•stockholders do not have the right to take any action by written consent; and•advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders.Delaware law prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any "interested stockholder," meaning generally that a stockholder who owns 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date such stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as the approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Warburg Pincus, however, is not subject to this restriction.The availability of shares for sale in the future could reduce the market price of our common stock.Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock. In the future, we may issue securities to raise cash for acquisitions, to pay down debt, to fund capital expenditures or general corporate expenses, in connection with the exercise of stock options or to satisfy our obligations under our incentive plans. We may also acquire interests in other companies by using a combination of cash and our common stock or just our common stock. We may also issue securities convertible into, exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, our common stock. Any of these events may dilute your ownership interest in our Company, reduce our earnings per share and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.Because we have no plans to pay, and are currently restricted from paying dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us.We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. Covenants contained in our Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing our Senior Unsecured Notes restrict the payment of dividends. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock.50Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsDuring 2015, the SEC issued comment letters relating to the Company's previously filed annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 inquiring about the potential impact of current commodity prices and our development plans for our reserves. The Company responded to these comment letters and was notified by the SEC that it completed its review on February 11, 2016. No amendments to any prior filings were required.