Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks, or any risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our shares could decline resulting in the loss of part or all of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect us.Risks related to our businessOil and natural gas prices are volatile. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.The prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities, and therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the market for oil and natural gas has been volatile. This market will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following:•worldwide and regional economic and financial conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil and natural gas;•the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas, including liquefied natural gas;•political conditions in or affecting other oil and natural gas-producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East, and conditions in South America, Africa and Russia;•the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production;•future regulations prohibiting or restricting our ability to apply hydraulic fracturing to our wells;•the level of global oil and natural gas inventories;•prevailing prices on local oil and natural gas price indexes in the areas in which we operate;•localized and global supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability;•weather conditions;•technological advances affecting energy consumption;•the price and availability of alternative fuels; and•domestic, local and foreign governmental regulation and taxes.Lower oil and natural gas prices will reduce our cash flows and borrowing ability. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves as existing reserves are depleted. Substantial decreases in oil and natural gas prices would render uneconomic a significant portion of our exploration, development and exploitation projects. This may result in our having to make significant downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures.Our business requires significant capital expenditures and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all.Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations, capital contributions, borrowings on our senior secured credit facility and proceeds from our senior unsecured notes. We do not have commitments from anyone to contribute capital to us. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, including the level of production from existing wells, prices of oil and natural gas and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to fund our capital expenditure budget, we may have limited ability to obtain the additional capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. We may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us or at all. The failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas production or reserves and, in some areas, a loss of properties.30Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration, exploitation, development and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil and natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit locations or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of information obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see "—Estimating reserves and future net revenues involves uncertainties. Decreases in oil and natural gas prices, or negative revisions to reserve estimates or assumptions as to future oil and natural gas prices, may lead to decreased earnings, losses or impairment of oil and natural gas assets." In addition, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following:•delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory and contractual requirements and related lawsuits, which may include limitations on hydraulic fracturing or the discharge of greenhouse gases;•pressure or irregularities in geological formations;•shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel;•equipment failures or accidents;•fires and blowouts;•adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes, blizzards and ice storms;•declines in oil and natural gas prices;•limited availability of financing at acceptable rates;•title problems; and•limitations in the market for oil and natural gas.Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could prohibit projects or result in materially increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays because of the significance of hydraulic fracturing in our business. Hydraulic fracturing is a practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. Nearly all of our proved non-producing and proved undeveloped reserves associated with future drilling, recompletion and refracture stimulation projects, or approximately 59% of our total estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2012, will require hydraulic fracturing. If we are unable to apply hydraulic fracturing to our wells or the process is prohibited or significantly regulated or restricted, we would lose the ability to (i) drill and complete the projects for such proved reserves and (ii) maintain the associated acreage, which would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects.The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA"), however, recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act's ("SDWA") Underground Injection Control ("UIC") Program. Under this assertion of authority, the EPA requires facilities to obtain permits to use diesel fuel in hydraulic fracturing operations. The U.S. Energy Policy Act of 2005, which exempts hydraulic fracturing from regulation under the SDWA, prohibits the use of diesel fuel in the fracturing process without a UIC permit. On May 4, 2012, the EPA published a draft UIC Program guidance for oil and natural gas hydraulic fracturing activities using diesel fuel. The guidance document is designed for use by employees of the EPA that draft the UIC permits and describes how regulations of Class II wells, which are those wells injecting fluids associated with oil and natural gas production activities, may be tailored to address the purported unique risks of diesel fuel injection during the hydraulic fracturing process. Although the EPA is not the permitting authority for UIC Class II programs in Texas and Oklahoma, where we maintain acreage, the EPA is encouraging state programs to review and consider use of the above-mentioned draft guidance. The draft guidance underwent an extended public comment process, which concluded on August 23, 2012. The EPA is presently evaluating the public comments and will likely issue a final guidance document at a later date. On November 3, 2011, the EPA released its Plan to Study the Potential Impacts of Hydraulic Fracturing on Drinking Water Resources. The study will include both analysis of existing data and investigative activities designed to generate future data. The EPA issued a progress report in December 2012, and expects to release a final report for public comment and peer review in 2014. 31In August 2012, the EPA adopted rules that subject oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, and storage operations to regulation under the New Source Performance Standards ("NSPS") and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants ("NESHAP") programs. The rule includes NSPS standards for completions of hydraulically fractured gas wells and establishes specific new requirements for emissions from compressors, controllers, dehydrators, storage vessels, natural gas processing plants and certain other equipment. The final rule became effective October 15, 2012; however, a number of the requirements did not take immediate effect. The rule established a phase-in period to allow for the manufacture and distribution of required emissions reduction technology. During the first phase, ending December 31, 2014, owners and operators of gas wells must either flare their emissions or use emissions reduction technology called "green completions" technologies already deployed at wells. On or after January 1, 2015, all newly fractured gas wells will be required to use green completions. Controls for certain storage vessels and pneumatic controllers may phase-in over one year beginning August 16, 2012, while certain compressors, dehydrators and other equipment must comply with the final rule immediately or up to three years and 60 days after the August 16, 2012 publication of the final rule, depending on the construction date and/or nature of the unit. We continue to evaluate the EPA's final rule, as it may require changes to our operations, including the installation of new emissions control equipment. Furthermore, on May 4, 2012, the DOI issued a draft rule that seeks to require companies operating on federal and Indian lands to (i) publicly disclose the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process; (ii) confirm its wells meet certain construction standards and (iii) establish site plans to manage flowback water. Under current federal law, there is no requirement for operators to disclose the use of such chemicals, although Laredo has already commenced similar disclosure with state regulators. In addition, legislation is pending in Congress to repeal the hydraulic fracturing exemption from the SDWA, provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, and require public disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. Finally, on October 20, 2011, the EPA announced its plan to propose federal pre-treatment standards for wastewater generated during the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing stimulation requires the use of a significant volume of water with some resulting "flowback," as well as "produced water." The EPA asserts that this water may contain radioactive materials and other pollutants and, therefore, may deteriorate drinking water quality if not properly treated before discharge. The Clean Water Act prohibits the discharge of wastewater into federal or state waters. Thus, "flowback" and "produced water" must either be injected into permitted disposal wells or transported to public or private treatment facilities for treatment, or recycled. The EPA asserts that due to some contaminants in hydraulic fracturing wastewater, most treatment facilities are unable to properly treat the wastewater before introducing it into public waters. If adopted, the new pre-treatment rules will require shale gas operations to pre-treat wastewater before transferring it to treatment facilities. Proposed rules are expected in 2013 for coalbed methane and 2014 for shale gas.Some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances or otherwise require the public disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. For example, pursuant to legislation adopted by the State of Texas in June 2011, the chemical components used in the hydraulic fracturing process, as well as the volume of water used, must be disclosed to the Railroad Commission of Texas and the public beginning February 1, 2012. In addition to state law, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular.If these or any other new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to drill and produce from conventional or tight formations as well as make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing is regulated at the federal level, fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting and financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping obligations, plugging and abandonment requirements and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. These developments, as well as new laws or regulations, could cause us to incur substantial compliance costs, and compliance or the consequences of failure to comply by us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At this time, it is not possible to estimate the potential impact on our business that may arise if federal or state legislation governing hydraulic fracturing is enacted into law.Estimating reserves and future net revenues involves uncertainties. Decreases in oil and natural gas prices, or negative revisions to reserve estimates or assumptions as to future oil and natural gas prices, may lead to decreased earnings, losses or impairment of oil and natural gas assets.The reserve data included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represent estimates. Reserve estimation is a subjective process of evaluating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Reserves that are "proved reserves" are those estimated quantities of oil and natural gas that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty are recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions and that relate to projects for which the extraction of hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain will commence within a reasonable time. 32The estimation process relies on interpretations of available geological, geophysical, engineering and production data. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of developmental expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. In addition, the estimates of future net revenues from our proved reserves and the present value of such estimates are based upon certain assumptions about future production levels, prices and costs that may not prove to be correct. Further, initial production rates reported by us or other operators may not be indicative of future or long-term production rates. A production decline may be rapid and irregular when compared to a well's initial production.Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic conditions in existence during the period of assessment. Changes to oil and natural gas prices in the markets for such commodities may have the impact of shortening the economic lives of certain fields because it becomes uneconomic to produce all recoverable reserves on such fields, which reduces proved property reserve estimates. Our negative revisions of 55,837 MBOE in 2012 were primarily the result of lower prices and increased well costs that caused the locations to become uneconomic. Negative revisions in the estimated quantities of proved reserves have the effect of increasing the rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization on the affected properties, which decrease earnings or result in losses through higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. These revisions, as well as revisions in the assumptions of future cash flows of these reserves, may also trigger impairment losses on certain properties, which would result in a non-cash charge to earnings. See Note O.4 in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.The potential drilling locations for our future wells that we have tentatively identified are scheduled out over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling, which in certain instances could prevent production prior to the expiration date of leases for such locations. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill a substantial portion of our identified potential drilling locations.Although our management team has scheduled certain potential drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage, our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, the availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results (including the impact of increased horizontal drilling and longer laterals), lease expirations, gathering systems, marketing and pipeline transportation constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have currently identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the potential locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently anticipated.If commodity prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our properties.Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on prevailing commodity prices and specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. See Note B.7 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our future cash flows and results of operations.Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Unless we conduct successful ongoing exploration, development and exploitation activities or continually acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our future cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.33Currently, we receive incremental cash flows as a result of our hedging activity. To the extent we are unable to obtain future hedges at effective prices consistent with those we have received to date and oil and natural gas prices do not improve, our cash flows and financial condition may be adversely impacted.To achieve more predictable cash flows and reduce our exposure to downward price fluctuations, as of December 31, 2012, we have entered into hedge contracts for approximately 4.4 million Bbls of our crude oil production and 56.3 million MMBtu of our natural gas production for settlement between January 2013 and December 2015. We are currently realizing a benefit from these hedge positions. If future oil and natural gas prices remain comparable to current prices, we expect that this benefit will decline materially over the life of the hedges, which cover decreasing volumes at declining prices through 2015. If we are unable to enter into new hedge contracts in the future at favorable pricing and for a sufficient amount of our production, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. For additional information regarding our hedging activities, please see "Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—Commodity derivative financial instruments."Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings.To achieve more predictable cash flows and reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we enter into derivative instrument contracts for a portion of our oil and natural gas production, including collars, puts and basis swaps. In accordance with applicable accounting principles, we are required to record our derivative financial instruments at fair market value, and they are included on our consolidated balance sheet as assets or liabilities and in our consolidated statement of operation as realized or unrealized gains. Losses on derivatives are included in our cash flows from operating activities. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in the fair market value of our derivative instruments. Derivative instruments also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:•production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments;•the counter-party to the derivative instrument defaults on its contractual obligations;•there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received; or•there are issues with regard to legal enforceability of such instruments.In addition, derivative arrangements could limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.The inability of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us may materially adversely affect our financial results.In addition to credit risk related to receivables from commodity derivative contracts, our principal exposure to credit risk is through net joint operations receivables (approximately $30.9 million at December 31, 2012) and the sale of our oil and natural gas production (approximately $48.4 million in receivables at December 31, 2012), which we market to energy marketing companies, refineries and affiliates. Joint interest receivables arise from billing entities who own partial interest in the wells we operate. These entities participate in our wells primarily based on their ownership in leases on which we wish to drill. We are generally unable to control which co-owners participate in our wells. We are also subject to credit risk due to the concentration of our oil and natural gas receivables with several significant customers. The largest purchaser of our oil and natural gas accounted for approximately 34% of our total oil and natural gas revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. We do not require our customers to post collateral. The inability or failure of our significant customers or joint working interest owners to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may materially adversely affect our financial results.We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of:•environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination;•abnormally pressured formations;•mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse;•fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines;34•personal injuries and death;•natural disasters; and•terrorist attacks targeting oil and natural gas related facilities and infrastructure.Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of:•injury or loss of life;•damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;•pollution and other environmental damage and associated clean-up responsibilities;•regulatory investigations, penalties or other sanctions;•suspension of our operations; and•repair and remediation costs.We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Locations that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities.Locations that we decide to drill that do not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we describe some of our current drilling locations and our plans to explore those drilling locations. Our drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from those that are ready to drill to those that will require substantial additional seismic data processing and interpretation before a decision can be made to proceed with the drilling of such locations. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular drilling location will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored locations or producing fields will result in successfully locating oil or natural gas in commercial quantities on our prospective acreage.Our use of 2D and 3D seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations.Even when properly used and interpreted, 2D and 3D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable geoscientists to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures or the amount of hydrocarbons. We employ 3D seismic technology with respect to certain of our projects. The implementation and practical use of 3D seismic technology is relatively new, unproven and unconventional, which can lessen its effectiveness, at least in the near term, and increase our costs. In addition, the use of 3D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur greater drilling and exploration expenses as a result of such expenditures, which may result in a reduction in our returns. As a result, our drilling activities may not be successful or economical, and our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities in a particular area could decline.We often gather 3D seismic data over large areas. Our interpretation of seismic data delineates those portions of an area that we believe are desirable for drilling. Therefore, we may choose not to acquire option or lease rights prior to acquiring seismic data, and in many cases, we may identify hydrocarbon indicators before seeking option or lease rights in the location. If we are not able to lease those locations on acceptable terms, we will have made substantial expenditures to acquire and analyze 3D data without having an opportunity to attempt to benefit from those expenditures.Market conditions, the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas gathering, processing or transportation arrangements or operational impediments may adversely affect our access to oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids markets or delay our production.The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines, trucking and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines, trucking and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms 35could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells due to lack of a market or inadequacy or unavailability of oil and natural gas pipeline, trucking, gathering system or processing capacity. In addition, if oil or natural gas quality specifications for the third party oil or natural gas pipelines with which we connect change so as to restrict our ability to transport oil or natural gas, our access to oil and natural gas markets could be impeded. If our production becomes shut in for any of these or other reasons, we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until other arrangements were made to deliver the products to market.Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Water is an essential component of both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Historically, we have been able to purchase water from local land owners and other sources for use in our operations. During 2012, West Texas and Oklahoma experienced the lowest inflows of water in recent history. As a result of this severe drought, some local water districts may begin restricting the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for drilling and hydraulic fracturing in order to protect the local water supply. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations from local sources, we may be unable to economically produce oil and natural gas, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or expose us to significant liabilities.Our oil and natural gas exploration, production and gathering operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our operations, including any evolving interpretation and enforcement by governmental authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.See "Item 1. Business—Regulation of the oil and natural gas industry" for a further description of the laws and regulations that affect us.Our operations may be exposed to significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental, health and safety requirements applicable to our business activities.We may incur significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of federal, state and local environmental, health and safety requirements applicable to our exploration, development and production activities. These laws and regulations may require us to obtain a variety of permits or other authorizations governing our air emissions, water discharges, waste disposal or other environmental impacts associated with drilling, production and transporting product pipelines or other operations; regulate the sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling, fracturing and completion processes; limit or prohibit drilling activities in certain areas and on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, frontier and other protected areas; require remedial action to prevent or mitigate pollution from former operations such as plugging abandoned wells or closing earthen pits; and/or impose substantial liabilities for spills, pollution or failure to comply with regulatory filings. In addition, these laws and regulations may restrict the rate of oil or natural gas production. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become increasingly stringent over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the suspension or revocation of necessary permits, licenses and authorizations, the requirement that additional pollution controls be installed and, in some instances, issuance of orders or injunctions limiting or requiring discontinuation of certain operations.Under certain environmental laws that impose strict as well as joint and several liability, we may be required to remediate contaminated properties currently or formerly operated by us or facilities of third parties that received waste generated by our operations regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations. In addition, accidental spills or releases from our operations could expose us to significant liabilities under environmental laws. Moreover, public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years. The trend of more expansive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations applied to the crude oil and natural gas industry could continue, resulting in increased costs of doing business and consequently affecting profitability. To the extent laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restricts drilling or imposes more stringent and costly 36operating, waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements, our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.See "Item 1. Business—Regulation of environmental and occupational health and safety matters" for a further description of the laws and regulations that affect us.The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services as well as fees for the cancellation of such services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.The demand for and availability of qualified and experienced personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling and workover rigs, pipe and other equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. In particular, the high level of drilling activity in the Permian Basin and Anadarko Granite Wash has resulted in equipment shortages in those areas. We committed to several short-term drilling contracts with various third parties in order to complete various drilling projects. An early termination clause in these contracts requires us to pay significant penalties to the third party should we cease drilling efforts. These penalties could significantly impact our financial statements upon contract termination. As a result of these commitments, approximately $1.6 million in stacked rig fees were incurred in 2009. We cannot predict whether these conditions will exist in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration will be. The shortages as well as rig related fees could result in delays or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase.Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (the "NGA") exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC"). We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish whether a pipeline performs a gathering function and therefore is exempt from the FERC's jurisdiction under the NGA. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is a fact-based determination. The classification of facilities as unregulated gathering is the subject of ongoing litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress, which could cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional facilities to FERC annual reporting and daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of "greenhouse gases" could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas we produce.Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as "greenhouse gases" ("GHGs"), including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. In response to such studies, Congress has, from time to time, considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs. One bill approved by the House of Representatives in June 2009, known as the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, would have required an 80% reduction in emissions of GHGs from sources within the U.S. between 2012 and 2050 but was not approved by the Senate in the 2009-2010 legislative session. Congress is likely to continue to consider similar bills. Moreover, almost half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs or other mechanisms. Most cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances corresponding with their annual emissions of GHGs. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. As the number of GHG emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. Some states have enacted renewable portfolio standards, which require utilities to purchase a certain percentage of their energy from renewable fuel sources.In addition, in December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment, because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to 37proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In response to its endangerment finding, the EPA recently adopted two sets of rules regarding possible future regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act. The motor vehicle rule, which became effective in January 2011, purports to limit emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles manufactured in model years 2012-2016; however, it does not require immediate reductions in GHG emissions. A recent rulemaking proposal by the EPA and the Department of Transportation's National Highway Traffic Safety Administration seeks to expand the motor vehicle rule to include vehicles manufactured in model years 2017-2025. The EPA adopted the stationary source rule (or the "tailoring rule") in May 2010, and it also became effective January 2011, although it remains the subject of several pending lawsuits filed by industry groups. The tailoring rule establishes new GHG emissions thresholds that determine when stationary sources must obtain permits under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or PSD, and Title V programs of the Clean Air Act. The permitting requirements of the PSD program apply only to newly constructed or modified major sources. Obtaining a PSD permit requires a source to install best available control technology, or BACT, for those regulated pollutants that are emitted in certain quantities. Phase I of the tailoring rule, which became effective on January 2, 2011, requires projects already triggering PSD permitting that are also increasing GHG emissions by more than 75,000 tons per year to comply with BACT rules for their GHG emissions. Phase II of the tailoring rule, which became effective on July 1, 2011, requires preconstruction permits using BACT for new projects that emit 100,000 tons of GHG emissions per year or existing facilities that make major modifications increasing GHG emissions by more than 75,000 tons per year. Phase III of the tailoring rule, which is expected to go into effect in 2013, will seek to streamline the permitting process and permanently exclude smaller sources from the permitting process. Finally, in October 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the U.S., including natural gas liquids fractionators and local natural gas/distribution companies, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. In November 2010, the EPA published a final rule expanding the GHG reporting rule to include onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. This rule requires reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities on an annual basis, with reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. On March 27, 2012, the EPA issued a proposed rule establishing carbon pollution standards for new fossil-fuel-fired electric utility generating units. The proposed rule underwent an extended public comment process, which concluded on June 25, 2012. The EPA is presently evaluating the public comments and is expected to issue a final rule at a later date. The EPA plans to implement GHG emissions standards for refineries in November 2012.The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory requirements. Any GHG emissions legislation or regulatory programs applicable to power plants or refineries could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The derivatives reform legislation adopted by Congress could have a material adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business.The July 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("Dodd-Frank"), which, among other provisions, requires more reporting requirements as well as establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market, was signed into law on July 21, 2010. The new legislation required the Commodities Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") and the SEC to promulgate rules implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. These rules have been adopted and those rules which have not been vacated and are not yet effective will take effect, depending on the rule, on April 10, 2013, May 1, 2013 or July 1, 2013.In its rulemaking under the new legislation, the CFTC has issued a final rule on position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. This rule was vacated and remanded to the CFTC for further proceedings by order of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, Judge Robert L. Wilkins, on September 28, 2012. The CFTC may issue another position limit rule after conducting such further proceedings and such rule may or may not be similar to the vacated rule and contain an exemption from position limits for certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions. The CFTC has also issued final rules further defining "swap," "swap dealer" and "major swap participant" and specifying the reporting and other requirements for "non-financial entities" to elect the exception to the clearing requirement under the Commodity Exchange Act ("CEA"). We qualify as a non-financial entity under the CEA and intend to comply with the reporting and other requirements of the exception and utilize the exception. Although the rules will not impose clearing requirements on us, they will impose additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements on us and clearing, capital, margin and reporting and recordkeeping on swap dealers and major swap participants and will also require certain of our potential swap counterparties to conduct their swap activities through affiliates which may be less creditworthy than existing potential swap counterparties. The rules and, if issued, a new position limit rule could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to 38monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our potential exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives or commodity prices decline as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures and our results of operations.Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel.Our ability to acquire additional locations and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry, especially in our focus areas. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory locations and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and locations than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, other companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel has increased due to competition and may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.The loss of senior management or technical personnel could materially adversely affect operations.We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel, including Randy A. Foutch, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals.A significant reduction by Warburg Pincus of its ownership interest in us could adversely affect us.Warburg Pincus is our largest stockholder and two members of our board of directors are affiliates of Warburg Pincus. As of December 31, 2012, Warburg Pincus owned approximately 68% of our outstanding common stock. We believe that Warburg Pincus' substantial ownership interest in us provides them with an economic incentive to assist us to be successful. However, Warburg Pincus is not obligated to maintain its ownership interest in us and may elect at any time to sell all or a substantial portion of or otherwise reduce its ownership interest in us. If Warburg Pincus sells all or a substantial portion of its ownership interest in us, Warburg Pincus may have less incentive to assist in our success and its affiliates that are members of our board of directors may resign. Such actions could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategies which could adversely affect our cash flows or results of operations.We have limited control over activities on properties we do not operate, which could materially reduce our production and revenues.A portion of our business activities is conducted through joint operating agreements under which we own partial interests in oil and natural gas properties. If we do not operate the properties in which we own an interest, we do not have control over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of the underlying properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations or an operator's breach of the applicable agreements could materially reduce our production and revenues. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others, therefore, depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator's timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells and use of technology. Because we do not have a majority interest in most wells that we do not operate, we may not be in a position to remove the operator in the event of poor performance.Our producing properties are in a concentrated geographic area, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area. Our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Permian Basin and Anadarko Granite Wash. At December 31, 2012, substantially all of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in these areas. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, water shortages or other drought-related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil or natural gas. In addition, if we are successful in divesting our non-Permian Basin assets, these risks associated with concentration will increase. 39Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate.Oil and natural gas operations in our operating areas can be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife. This limits our ability to operate in those areas and can intensify competition during those months for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs.Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce our cash flow available for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example, as of December 31, 2012, we have approximately $660 million of additional borrowing capacity on our senior secured credit facility, subject to compliance with financial covenants. The impact of a 1.0% increase in interest rates on an assumed borrowing of the full $825 million available on our senior secured credit facility would result in increased annual interest expense of approximately $8.3 million and a corresponding decrease in our net income before taking into account the effects of increased interest rates on the value of our interest rate contracts. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in our cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results.We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions of properties.The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including:•recoverable reserves;•future oil and natural gas prices and their applicable differentials;•operating costs; and•potential environmental and other liabilities.The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. Our assessment will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an "as is" basis. Even in those circumstances in which we have contractual indemnification rights for pre-closing liabilities, it remains possible that the seller will not be able to fulfill its contractual obligations. Problems with properties we acquire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow.In the future we may make acquisitions of businesses that complement or expand our current business. We may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. Even if we do identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms.The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and for purchase prices significantly higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to incorporate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We have incurred losses from operations for various periods since our inception and may do so in the future.We incurred net losses from our inception to December 31, 2006 of approximately $1.8 million and for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009 of approximately $6.1 million, $192.0 million and $184.5 million, 40respectively. Our financial statements include deferred tax assets, which require management's judgment when evaluating whether they will be realized. Our development of and participation in an increasingly larger number of locations has required and will continue to require substantial capital expenditures. The uncertainty and factors described throughout this section may impede our ability to economically find, develop, exploit and acquire oil and natural gas reserves and realize our deferred tax assets. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from operating activities in the future. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical accounting policies and estimates."The inability of one or more of our customers to meet their obligations may adversely affect our financial results.Substantially all of our accounts receivable result from oil and natural gas sales or joint interest billings to third parties in the energy industry. At December 31, 2012, four customers accounted for 10% or greater of our oil and natural gas sales receivables: 25.7%, 13.7%, 13.0% and 10.7%. This concentration of customers and joint interest owners may impact our overall credit risk in that these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. In addition, our oil and natural gas hedging arrangements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties. Current economic circumstances may further increase these risks.We require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness at or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.We may incur significant additional amounts of debt.As of December 31, 2012, we had total long-term indebtedness of approximately $1.2 billion. In addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, in the future. The restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness contained in the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes and in our senior secured credit facility are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our existing debt levels, the related risks that we face would increase and may make it more difficult to satisfy our existing financial obligations. In addition, the restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness contained in the indentures governing the senior unsecured notes apply only to debt that constitutes indebtedness under the indentures.Our debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit our flexibility in operating our business.Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes each contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things:•incur additional indebtedness;•pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments;•make certain investments;•sell certain assets;•create liens;•consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and•enter into certain transactions with our affiliates.As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we may conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or our capital needs. In addition, the covenants in our senior secured credit facility require us to maintain a minimum working capital ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio and also limit our capital expenditures. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions and, in the case of our senior secured credit facility, permit the lenders to cease making loans to us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior secured credit facility, the 41lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Such actions by those lenders could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness, including the senior unsecured notes. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our senior secured credit facility. If the lenders under our senior secured credit facility accelerate the repayment of the borrowings thereunder, the proceeds from the sale or foreclosure upon such assets will first be used to repay debt under our senior secured credit facility, and we may not have sufficient assets to repay our unsecured indebtedness thereafter.We may incur more taxes and certain of our projects may become uneconomic if certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development are eliminated as a result of future legislation.Legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted, eliminate certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any of the foregoing changes will actually be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development. Any such change could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by increasing the costs we incur which would in turn make it uneconomic to drill some locations if commodity prices are not sufficiently high, resulting in lower revenues and decreases in production and reserves.Loss of our information and computer systems could adversely affect our business.We are heavily dependent on our information systems and computer based programs, including our well operations information, seismic data, electronic data processing and accounting data. If any of such programs or systems were to fail or create erroneous information in our hardware or software network infrastructure or we were subject to cyberspace breaches or attacks, possible consequences include our loss of communication links, inability to find, produce, process and sell oil and natural gas and inability to automatically process commercial transactions or engage in similar automated or computerized business activities. Any such consequence could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber-security threats, and other disruptions.As an oil and natural gas producer, we face various security threats, including cyber-security threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable, threats to the safety of our employees, threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines, and threats from terrorist acts. Cyber-security attacks in particular are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and protect against these threats and to mitigate our exposure to such threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient in preventing security threats from materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Risks relating to our common stockOur amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware state law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may adversely affect the market price of our capital stock.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could adversely affect the voting power or economic value of your shares.In addition, some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including:42•limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings;•at such time as Warburg Pincus no longer beneficially owns more than 50% of our outstanding common stock, any action by stockholders may no longer be effected by written consent of the stockholders;•at such time as Warburg Pincus no longer beneficially owns more than 50% of our outstanding common stock, our board of directors will be divided into three classes with each class serving staggered three year terms;•a separate vote of 75% of the voting power of the outstanding shares of capital stock in order for stockholders to amend the bylaws in certain circumstances; and•advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders.Delaware law prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any "interested stockholder," meaning generally that a stockholder who owns 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date such stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as the approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Warburg Pincus, however, is not subject to this restriction.The concentration of our capital stock ownership among our largest stockholder will limit your ability to influence corporate matters.As of December 31, 2012, Warburg Pincus owned approximately 68% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, Warburg Pincus has significant influence over all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership limits the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters.Furthermore, conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us, on the one hand, and Warburg Pincus and its affiliates, including its portfolio companies, on the other hand, concerning among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities. Warburg Pincus LLC is a private equity firm that has invested in, among other things, companies in the energy industry. As a result, Warburg Pincus' existing and future portfolio companies which it controls may compete with us for investment or business opportunities. These conflicts of interest may not be resolved in our favor.We have also renounced our interest in certain business opportunities. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, we renounce any interest or expectancy in any business opportunity, transaction or other matter in which Warburg Pincus or any private fund that it manages or advises, any of their respective officers, directors, partners and employees, and any portfolio company in which such persons or entities have an equity interest (other than us and our subsidiaries) (each, a "specified party") participates or desires or seeks to participate and that involves any aspect of the energy business or industry, even if the opportunity is one that we might reasonably have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue if granted the opportunity to do so, and no such specified party shall be liable to us for breach of any fiduciary or other duty, as a director or officer or controlling stockholder or otherwise, by reason of the fact that such specified party pursues or acquires any such business opportunity, directs any such business opportunity to another person or fails to present any such business opportunity, or information regarding any such business opportunity, to us. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we do not renounce any interest or expectancy in any business opportunity, transaction or other matter that is offered in writing solely to (i) one of our directors or officers who is not also a specified party or (ii) a specified party who is one of our directors, officers or employees and is offered such business opportunity solely in his or her capacity as our director, officer or employee. By renouncing our interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that from time to time may be presented to Warburg Pincus and its affiliates, our business and prospects could be adversely affected if attractive business opportunities are procured by such parties for their own benefit rather than for ours.Because we have no plans to pay, and are currently restricted from paying dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. Covenants contained in our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes restrict the payment of dividends. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. 43The availability of shares for sale in the future could reduce the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may issue securities to raise cash for acquisitions. We may also acquire interests in other companies by using a combination of cash and our common stock or just our common stock. We may also issue securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, our common stock. Any of these events may dilute your ownership interest in our company, reduce our earnings per share and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. 44Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.