Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves a high degree of risk. You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the financial statements and the related notes appearing at the end of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks, or any risk described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, actually occurs, our business, business prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The risks below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect us. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements, estimates and projections that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks described below. Risks Related to Our Business Drilling wells is speculative, often involving significant costs that may be more than our estimates, and may not result in any discoveries or additions to our future production or reserves. Any material inaccuracies in estimated reserves, estimated drilling costs or underlying assumptions will materially affect our business. Exploring for and developing oil and natural gas reserves involves a high degree of operational and financial risk, which precludes definitive statements as to the time required and costs involved in reaching certain objectives. The budgeted costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often exceeded and can increase significantly when drilling costs rise due to a tightening in the supply of various types of oilfield equipment and related services. Drilling may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including geological conditions, weather, cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Exploratory wells bear a much greater risk of loss than development wells. Moreover, the successful drilling of an oil or natural gas well does not ensure a profit on investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, can cause a well to become uneconomic or only marginally economic. Our initial drilling locations, and any potential additional locations that may be developed, require significant additional exploration and development, regulatory approval and commitments of resources prior to commercial development. If our actual drilling and development costs are significantly more than our estimated costs, we may not be able to continue our business operations as proposed and would be forced to modify our plan of operation. 29 Table of Contents Our estimated oil and natural gas reserves will naturally decline over time, and we may be unable to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future oil and natural gas reserves, production volumes, and cash flow depend on our success in developing and exploiting our current reserves efficiently and finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves economically. Our estimated oil and natural gas reserves will naturally decline over time as they are produced. Our success depends on our ability to economically develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our own current and future production. If we are unable to do so, or if expected development is delayed, reduced or cancelled, the average decline rates will likely increase. Developing and producing oil and natural gas are costly and high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The cost of developing, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce as much oil and natural gas as we had estimated. Furthermore, our development and production operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: •high costs, shortages or delivery delays of rigs, equipment, labor or other services; •composition of sour gas, including sulfur and mercaptan content; •unexpected operational events and conditions; •reductions in oil and natural gas prices; •increases in severance taxes; •adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; •facility or equipment malfunctions and equipment failures or accidents, including acceleration of deterioration of our facilities and equipment due to the highly corrosive nature of sour gas; •title problems; •pipe or cement failures, casing collapses or other downhole failures; •compliance with ever-changing environmental and other governmental requirements; •environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, salt water spills, pipeline ruptures, discharges of toxic gases or other releases of hazardous substances; •lost or damaged oilfield development and service tools; •unusual or unexpected geological formations and pressure or irregularities in formations; •loss of drilling fluid circulation; •fires, blowouts, surface craterings and explosions; •uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids; •loss of leases due to incorrect payment of royalties; and •other hazards, including those associated with sour gas such as an accidental discharge of hydrogen sulfide gas, that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. 30 Table of Contents If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We routinely apply hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our drilling and completion operations. Hydraulic fracturing has recently become subject to increased public scrutiny and recent changes in federal and state law, as well as proposed legislative changes, could significantly restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing. Such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from dense subsurface rock formations and, in the event of local prohibitions against commercial production of natural gas, may preclude our ability to drill wells. In addition, such laws could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. If hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA or other federal agencies, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements and result in permitting delays, financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping obligations, plugging and abandonment requirements, as well as potential increases in costs. Additionally, on August 23, 2011, the EPA published a proposed rule in the Federal Register that would establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations. The new emission standards seek to reduce VOC emissions, including a 95 percent reduction in VOCs emitted during the construction or modification of hydraulically-fractured wells. The EPA received public comment and conducted public hearings regarding the proposed rules and must take final action on them by April 3, 2012. Compliance with such rules could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business. In addition, on October 20, 2011, the EPA announced its intention to develop federal pre-treatment standards for wastewater discharges associated with hydraulic fracturing activities. If adopted, the new pretreatment rules will require coalbed methane and shale gas operations to pretreat wastewater before transferring it to treatment facilities. Proposed rules are expected in 2013 for coalbed methane and 2014 for shale gas. We cannot predict the impact that these standards may have on our business at this time, but these standards could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Please read "Risks Related to our Business—Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays" and "Item 1. Business—Environmental Matters and Regulation—Water and Other Water Discharges and Spills." Additionally, hydraulic fracturing, drilling, transportation and processing of hydrocarbons bear an inherent risk of loss of containment. Potential consequences include loss of reserves, loss of production, loss of economic value associated with the affected wellbore, contamination of soil, ground water, and surface water, as well as potential fines, penalties or damages associated with any of the foregoing consequences. Our acquisition, development and production operations will require substantial capital expenditures, and we expect to fund these capital expenditures using cash generated from our operations or the issuance of debt and equity securities, or some combination thereof. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future growth capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We expect to make substantial growth capital expenditures in our business for the acquisition, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. We intend to finance our future growth and capital expenditures with cash flows from operations and the issuance of debt and equity securities, or some combination thereof. 31 Table of Contents Our cash flows from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: •our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves; •the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce; •the prices at which we sell our production; •the results of any hedging strategy implemented by us; •the costs of developing, producing, and transporting our oil and natural gas assets, including costs attributable to governmental regulation and taxation; •our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; •fluctuations in our working capital needs; •interest payments and debt service requirements; •prevailing economic conditions; •the ability and willingness of banks and other lenders to lend to us; and •our ability to access the equity and debt capital markets. If additional capital is needed to fund our growth capital expenditures, our ability to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. A decline in oil, natural gas or NGLs prices will cause a decline in our cash flow from operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The oil and natural gas markets are very volatile, and we cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: •domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; •weather conditions and the occurrence of natural disasters; •overall domestic and global economic conditions; •political and economic conditions in oil and natural gas producing countries globally, including terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war; •actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; •the effect of increasing liquefied natural gas deliveries to and exports from the United States; •the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on oil and natural gas prices; •technological advances affecting energy supply and energy consumption; •domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; •the impact of energy conservation efforts; 32 Table of Contents •the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of oil and natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; •the availability of refining capacity; and •the price and availability of alternative fuels. In the past, oil and natural gas prices have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. Such volatility may affect the amount of our net estimated proved reserves and will affect the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows of our net estimated proved reserves. Natural gas prices are closely linked to the supply of natural gas and consumption patterns in the United States of the electric power generation industry and certain industrial and residential users where natural gas is the principal fuel. The domestic natural gas industry continues to face concerns of oversupply due to the success of new trends and continued drilling in these trends, despite lower natural gas prices. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices of and demand for oil and natural gas, and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. In particular, declines in commodity prices will: •limit our ability to enter into commodity derivative contracts at attractive prices; •reduce the value and quantities of our reserves, because declines in oil and natural gas prices would reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can economically produce; •reduce the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures; and •limit our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. An increase in the differential between the NYMEX or other benchmark prices of oil and natural gas and the wellhead price we receive for our production could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The prices that we receive for our oil and natural gas production sometimes reflect a discount to the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX, that are used for calculating hedge positions. The difference between the benchmark price and the price we receive is called a basis differential. Increases in the basis differential between the benchmark prices for oil and natural gas and the wellhead price we receive could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have or currently plan to have any commodity derivative contracts covering the amount of the basis differentials we experience in respect of our production. As such, we will be exposed to any increase in such differentials, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with the closing of the IPO, SEP I contributed to us a commodity derivative contract with a deferred premium cost of approximately $1.9 million, which we paid with a portion of the proceeds from the IPO. In the future, we expect to enter into commodity derivative contracts for a portion of our estimated production from total estimated proved developed producing reserves that could result in both realized and unrealized hedging losses. We also expect to adopt a hedging policy designed to reduce the impact to our cash flows from commodity price volatility. Our hedging strategy and future hedging transactions will be determined by our management, which is not under any obligation to enter into commodity derivative contracts covering any specific portion of our production. The prices at which we enter into commodity derivative contracts covering our production in the future will be dependent upon oil and natural gas prices at the time we enter into these transactions, which may be substantially higher or lower than past or current oil and natural gas prices. Accordingly, our price hedging strategy may not protect us from significant declines in oil and natural gas prices 33 Table of Contents realized for our future production. Conversely, our hedging strategy may limit our ability to realize incremental cash flows from commodity price increases. As such, our hedging strategy may not protect us from changes in oil and natural gas prices that could have a significant adverse effect on our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operation. We are increasing production in areas of high industry activity, which may impact our ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete our development activities as planned or result in increased costs. Our strategy is to expand drilling activity in areas in which industry activity has increased rapidly, particularly in the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas. As a result, demand for personnel, equipment, hydraulic fracturing, water and other services and resources, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas has increased, as has the costs for those items. A delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access necessary for us to complete our development activities as planned could result in a rate of oil and natural gas production below the rate forecasted, and significant increases in costs would impact our profitability. Shortages of equipment, services and qualified personnel could reduce our cash flow and adversely affect results of operations. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices and activity levels in new regions, causing periodic shortages. During periods of high oil and natural gas prices, SOG has experienced shortages of equipment, including drilling rigs and completion equipment, as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with higher commodity prices and increased activity levels. In addition, there is currently a shortage of hydraulic fracturing capacity in many of the areas in which we operate. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, oilfield equipment and services and personnel in our exploration and production operations. These types of shortages or price increases could significantly decrease our profit margin, cash flow and operating results and/or restrict or delay our ability to drill those wells and conduct those operations that we currently have planned and budgeted, causing us to miss our forecasts and projections. If we do not purchase additional acreage or make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth will be limited. Our ability to grow depends in part on our ability to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms. We may be unable to make such acquisitions because we are: •unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with their owners; •unable to obtain financing for such acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or •outbid by competitors. If we are unable to acquire properties containing estimated proved reserves, our total level of estimated proved reserves will decline as a result of our production. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage or the leases are extended. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire unless production in paying quantities is established during their primary terms or we obtain extensions of the leases. Our 34 Table of Contents drilling plans for our undeveloped leasehold acreage are subject to change based upon various factors, including factors that are beyond our control, such as drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints and regulatory approvals. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if our undeveloped leasehold acreage will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce crude oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties on this acreage. Excluding the properties in our Marquis area, as of December 31, 2011, we had leases representing 4,988 net acres (4,837 of which were in the Eagle Ford Shale) expiring in 2012, 21,259 acres (21,214 of which were in the Eagle Ford Shale) expiring in 2013, and 175 net acres (175 of which were in the Eagle Ford Shale) expiring in 2014. The Marquis area includes approximately 54,900 net acres, none of which expires before December 31, 2013 except: (i) leases comprising 1,739 net acres covering properties in Webb County, Texas (with respect to each of which the lessee has an optional right to extend the primary term for a two-year period); (ii) properties comprising 695 net acres covering properties in DeWitt County, Texas; and (iii) properties comprising 461 net acres covering properties in Fayette County, Texas. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Availability of adequate gathering systems and transportation take-away capacity may hinder our access to suitable oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Our ability to bring oil, natural gas and NGLs production to market depends on a number of factors including the availability and proximity of pipelines and processing facilities. The recent growth in production in the Eagle Ford Shale, especially of natural gas and NGLs production, has limited the availability of transportation take-away capacity for these products in certain parts of this trend. If we are unable to obtain adequate amounts of take-away capacity to meet our growing production levels, we may have to delay initial production or shut in our wells awaiting a pipeline connection or capacity or sell our production at significantly lower prices than those quoted on NYMEX or than we currently project, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have drilled only eight wells in the Eagle Ford Shale, we are not the operator of our wells in the Haynesville Shale and we have not drilled wells in the Heath, Three Forks and Bakken Shales, and thus we have limited information regarding reserves and decline rates in the Eagle Ford Shale, Haynesville Shale, and the Heath, Three Forks and Bakken Shales. Wells drilled in these shale areas are more expensive and more susceptible to mechanical problems in drilling and completion techniques than wells in conventional areas. We have drilled only eight wells in the Eagle Ford Shale, we are not the operator of our wells in the Haynesville Shale and we have not drilled wells in the Heath, Three Forks and Bakken Shales. Other operators in the Eagle Ford Shale, Haynesville Shale, and the Heath, Three Forks and Bakken Shales have significantly more experience in the drilling and completion of these wells, including the drilling and completion of horizontal wells. In addition, we have limited information with respect to the ultimate recoverable reserves and production decline rates in these areas. The wells drilled in the Eagle Ford Shale, Haynesville Shale, and the Heath, Three Forks and Bakken Shales are primarily horizontal and require more stimulation, which makes them more expensive to drill and complete. The wells will also be more susceptible to mechanical problems associated with the drilling and completion of the wells, such as casing collapse and lost equipment in the wellbore due to the length of the lateral portions of these unconventional wells. The fracturing of these shale formations will be more extensive and complicated than fracturing geological formations in conventional areas of operation. 35 Table of Contents Our hedging transactions could result in cash losses, limit potential gains and materially impact our liquidity. Many of the derivative contracts to which we may be a party will require us to make cash payments to the extent the applicable index exceeds a predetermined price, thereby limiting our ability to realize the benefit of increases in oil and natural gas prices. If our actual production and sales for any period are less than our hedged production and sales for that period (including reductions in production due to operational delays) or if we are unable to perform our drilling activities as planned, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our hedging obligations without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, which may materially impact our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is a process used by oil and natural gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and natural gas wells whereby water, sand and chemicals are injected under pressure into subsurface formations to stimulate natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil production. This process is typically regulated by state agencies. The EPA, however, recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the federal SDWA UIC Program by posting a new requirement on its website that requires facilities to obtain permits to use diesel fuel in hydraulic fracturing operations. The U.S. Energy Policy Act of 2005, which exempts hydraulic fracturing from regulation under the SDWA, prohibits the use of diesel fuel in the fracturing process without a UIC permit. Although the EPA has yet to take any action to enforce or implement this newly-asserted regulatory authority, industry groups have filed suit challenging the EPA's recent decisions as a "final agency action" and, thus, violative of the notice-and-comment rulemaking procedures of the Administrative Procedures Act. At the same time, the EPA has commenced a study of the potential adverse effects that hydraulic fracturing may have on water quality and public health, with results of the study anticipated to be available by late 2012, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives also has commenced its own investigation into hydraulic fracturing practices. Additionally, legislation was introduced in the 111th session of Congress to amend the SDWA to subject hydraulic fracturing processes to regulation under that Act and to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process, and such legislation could be introduced in the current session of Congress. Further, certain members of the Congress have called upon the U.S. Government Accountability Office to investigate how hydraulic fracturing might adversely affect water resources, the SEC to investigate the natural gas industry and any possible misleading of investors or the public regarding the economic feasibility of pursuing natural gas deposits in shales by means of hydraulic fracturing, and the U.S. Energy Information Administration to provide a better understanding of that agency's estimates regarding natural gas reserves, including reserves from shale formations, as well as uncertainties associated with those estimates. Finally, the Shale Gas Subcommittee of the Secretary of Energy Advisory Board released a report on August 11, 2011, proposing recommendations to reduce the potential environmental impacts from shale gas production. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other regulatory mechanism. Also, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances or otherwise require the public disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. For example, Texas adopted a law in June 2011 requiring disclosure, by February 1, 2012, to the Railroad Commission of Texas and the public of certain information regarding the chemical components, as well as volume of water, used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Furthermore, on August 23, 2011, the EPA published a proposed rule in the Federal Register that would establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas 36 Table of Contents production and natural gas processing operations. The new emissions standards seek to reduce VOC emissions, including a 95 percent reduction in VOCs emitted during the construction or modification of hydraulically-fractured wells. The EPA received public comment and conducted public hearings regarding the proposed rules and must take final action on them by April 3, 2012. If these or any other new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to drill and produce from conventional or tight formations, increase our costs of compliance and doing business and make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings. In addition, on October 20, 2011, the EPA announced its intention to develop federal pre-treatment standards for wastewater discharges associated with hydraulic fracturing activities. If adopted, the new pretreatment rules will require coalbed methane and shale gas operations to pretreat wastewater before transferring it to treatment facilities. Proposed rules are expected in 2013 for coalbed methane and 2014 for shale gas. We cannot predict the impact that these standards may have on our business at this time, but these standards could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. If hydraulic fracturing is regulated at the federal level, fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting and financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping obligations, plugging and abandonment requirements and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Such legislative changes could cause us to incur substantial compliance costs, and compliance or the consequences of failure to comply by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. At this time, it is not possible to estimate the potential impact on our business that may arise if federal or state legislation governing hydraulic fracturing is enacted into law. Our hedging transactions expose us to counterparty credit risk. Our hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden changes in a counterparty's liquidity, which could impair its ability to perform under the terms of the derivative contract. We are unable to predict sudden changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform under contracts with us. Even if we do accurately predict sudden changes, our ability to mitigate that risk may be limited depending upon market conditions. Our estimated reserves and future production rates are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our estimated reserves. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of oil and natural gas reserves and future production. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering is complex, requiring subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future production levels and operating and development costs. In estimating our level of oil and natural gas reserves, we and our independent reserve engineers make certain assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, including assumptions relating to: •the level of oil, natural gas and NGL prices; •future production levels; •capital expenditures; •operating and development costs; 37 Table of Contents •the effects of regulation; •the accuracy and reliability of the underlying engineering and geologic data; and the availability of funds. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, our estimates of our reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and our estimates of the future net cash flows from our estimated reserves could change significantly. Moreover, the variability is likely to be higher for probable and possible reserve estimates. For example, if the prices used in our reserve report as of December 31, 2011 had been $10.00 less per bo and $1.00 less per mmbtu for natural gas, then the standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves as of that date would have decreased by approximately $25.7 million, from approximately $133.2 million to approximately $107.5 million. Our standardized measure is calculated using unhedged oil, natural gas and NGL prices and is determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. Over time, we may make material changes to reserve estimates to take into account changes in our assumptions and the results of actual development and production. The reserve estimates we make for wells or fields that do not have a lengthy production history are less reliable than estimates for wells or fields with lengthy production histories. A lack of production history may contribute to inaccuracy in our estimates of proved reserves, future production rates and the timing of development expenditures. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation. There is no way to predict with certainty in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies, and the study of producing fields in the same area, will not enable us to know conclusively before drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercially viable quantities. Moreover, the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields may not be applicable to our drilling prospects. The present value of future net revenues from our estimated reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. The present value of future net revenues from our estimated reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our estimated reserves on prices and costs in effect as of the date of the estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: •the actual prices we receive for oil, natural gas and NGLs; •our actual operating costs in producing oil, natural gas and NGLs; •the amount and timing of actual production; •the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; •the supply of and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs; and •changes in governmental regulations or taxation. 38 Table of Contents The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from our estimated reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows in compliance with ASC 932, "Extractive Activities—Oil and Natural Gas," may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. We may experience a financial loss if SOG is unable to sell a significant portion of our oil and natural gas production. Under our Services Agreement, SOG sells a portion of our oil, natural gas and NGL production on our behalf. SOG's ability to sell our production depends upon market conditions and the demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs from SOG's customers. In recent years, a number of energy marketing and trading companies have discontinued their marketing and trading operations, which has significantly reduced the number of potential purchasers for our production. This reduction in potential customers has reduced overall market liquidity. If any one or more of our significant customers reduces the volume of oil and natural gas production it purchases and SOG is unable to sell those volumes to other customers, then the volume of our production that SOG sells on our behalf could be reduced, which could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a failure by any of these companies, or any purchasers of our production, to perform their payment obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that purchasers of our production rely on access to the debt or equity markets to fund their operations, there could be an increased risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to us. If for any reason we were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of our production were uncollectible, we would recognize a charge to our earnings in that period for the probable loss and could suffer a material reduction in our liquidity. Lower oil and natural gas prices may cause us to record ceiling limitation impairments, which would reduce our stockholders' equity. We use the full-cost method of accounting and accordingly, we capitalize all costs associated with the acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas properties, including unproved and unevaluated property costs. Under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized cost of oil and natural gas properties may not exceed a "ceiling limit" that is based upon the present value of estimated future net revenues from net proved reserves, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of the cost or fair market value of unproved properties and other adjustments as required by Regulation S-X under the Securities Act. If net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties exceed the ceiling limit, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. This is called a "ceiling limitation impairment." The risk that we will experience a ceiling limitation impairment increases when oil and natural gas prices are depressed, if we have substantial downward revisions in estimated net proved reserves or if estimates of future development costs increase significantly. No assurance can be given that we will not experience a ceiling limitation impairment in future periods. Our identified drilling location inventories are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future drilling activities on our existing acreage through December 2013. These identified drilling 39 Table of Contents locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil and natural gas prices, costs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any acquisitions we complete or geographic expansions we undertake will be subject to substantial risks that could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: •mistaken assumptions about estimated proved reserves, future production, revenues, capital expenditures, operating expenses and costs, including synergies, timing of expected development and the potential for expiration of underlying leaseholds; •an inability to successfully integrate the assets or businesses we acquire; •a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents to finance acquisitions; •a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur debt to finance acquisitions; •the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which any indemnity we receive is inadequate; •the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; •mistaken assumptions about the overall cost of equity or debt; •an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets; •facts and circumstances that could give rise to significant cash and certain non-cash charges; and •customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. Further, we may in the future expand our operations into new geographic areas with operating conditions and a regulatory environment that may not be as familiar to us as our existing project areas. As a result, we may encounter obstacles that may cause us not to achieve the expected results of any such acquisitions, and any adverse conditions, regulations or developments related to any assets acquired in new geographic areas may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic data and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition, given time constraints imposed by sellers. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. 40 Table of Contents We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive with respect to acquiring prospects and properties, marketing oil and natural gas, and securing equipment and trained personnel. Many of our competitors are large independent oil and natural gas companies that possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than those of the Sanchez Group. Those entities may be able to develop and acquire more properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and natural gas but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and natural gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial, technical or personnel resources permit. In addition, there is substantial competition for investment capital in the oil and natural gas industry. These larger companies may have a greater ability to continue development activities during periods of low oil and natural gas prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Furthermore, we may not be able to aggregate sufficient quantities of production to compete with larger companies that are able to sell greater volumes of production to intermediaries, thereby reducing the realized prices attributable to our production. Any inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. There are a variety of operating risks inherent in our wells and other operating properties and facilities, such as leaks, explosions, mechanical problems and natural disasters, all of which could cause substantial financial losses. Any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of our operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial revenue losses. The location of our wells and other operating properties and facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. Insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. We are not fully insured against all risks, including development and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Moreover, insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs or on commercially reasonable terms. Changes in the insurance markets due to weather, adverse economic conditions, and the aftermath of the Macondo well incident in the Gulf of Mexico have made it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance we would otherwise have obtained prior to these market changes, and we cannot be sure the insurance coverage we do obtain will not contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 41 Table of Contents We may have assumed unknown liabilities in connection with our recently completed acquisitions from SEP I and Ross Exploration. We have limited or no recourse against them for losses, including for title defects. As a result of our recently completed acquisitions of the SEP I Assets and the Marquis Assets in connection with the closing of our IPO, we may have incurred significant unknown liabilities and may have limited or no contractual remedies or insurance coverage for such liabilities. Unknown liabilities could include liabilities for cleanup or remediation of undisclosed or unknown environmental conditions, claims that were not asserted or threatened prior to completion of the IPO, and tax liabilities. Further, to the extent that we have indemnification rights or a claim for damages for such liabilities, we cannot assure you that the indemnifying party will be able to fulfill its contractual obligations or otherwise satisfy any claims we may have at law or equity. Any such liability or liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reserves. We acquired the SEP I Assets on an "as is" basis, subject to all liabilities that existed prior to the closing of the IPO, some of which may be unknown. We have limited or no recourse against the Sanchez Group for liabilities associated with the SEP I Assets or for breaches of representations or warranties by SEP I and we cannot assure you that we have identified all areas of existing or potential exposure. In addition and in connection with the acquisition of the Marquis Assets, we assumed certain obligations and liabilities, including unknown and contingent liabilities, arising in connection with or relating to the entity or the properties that we acquired. While we performed a certain level of due diligence in connection with the acquisition of the Marquis Assets and attempted to verify the representations of Ross Exploration, there may be pending, threatened, contemplated or contingent claims against the entity or the Marquis Assets related to environmental, title, regulatory, litigation or other matters of which we are unaware. In addition, we have limited or no recourse against Ross Exploration for liabilities associated with such properties. For example, Ross Exploration did not make any representations and warranties to us with respect to environmental matters that would entitle us to seek indemnification, and we may not seek an adjustment to the purchase price for any environmental liabilities. Ross Exploration will generally not be liable for any misrepresentation or breach of warranty unless asserted within one year of closing and the aggregate amount of damages with respect to such misrepresentation or breach of warranty exceeds $25,000 individually and $2.0 million in the aggregate and then only to the extent of such excess. We did not obtain title policies or title insurance on the properties that we acquired from Ross Exploration or SEP I and may not have identified all title defects within the period that we were required to assert such defects in order to claim a reduction in the consideration paid by us. Our assets and operations can be adversely affected by weather and other natural phenomena. Our assets and operations can be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and other natural phenomena and weather conditions, including extreme temperatures. Insurance may be inadequate, and in some instances, we may not be able to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms, or insurance might not be available at all. A significant disruption in operations or a significant liability for which we were not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers' energy needs vary with weather conditions. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change or demand is impacted by regulations associated with climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes, leading either to increased investment or decreased revenues. 42 Table of Contents Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate. Oil and natural gas operations in some of the areas where we operate are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife. In certain areas on federal lands, drilling and other oil and natural gas activities can only be conducted during limited times of the year. This limits our ability to operate in those areas and can intensify competition during those times for drilling rigs, oil field equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. Our properties are located in regions which make us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major contiguous geographic area, including the risk and related costs of damage or business interruptions from hurricanes. Our properties are primarily located in the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas, and as a result of this geographic concentration, we are disproportionately affected by any delays or interruptions in production or transportation in these areas caused by governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, natural disasters, regional price fluctuations and other factors. Such disturbances have in the past and will in the future have any or all of the following adverse effects on our business: •interruptions to our operations as we suspend production in advance of an approaching storm; •damage to our facilities and equipment, including damage that disrupts or delays our production; •disruption to the transportation systems we rely upon to deliver our products to our customers; and •damage to or disruption of our customers' facilities that prevents us from taking delivery of our products. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance, we cannot predict whether we will continue to be able to obtain insurance for hurricane-related damages or, if obtainable and carried, whether this insurance will be adequate to cover our losses. In addition, we expect any insurance of this nature to be subject to substantial deductibles and to provide for premium adjustments based on claims. Any future hurricane-related costs and work interruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our lack of diversification will increase the risk of an investment in us. Our current business focus is on the oil and natural gas industry in a limited number of properties, primarily in the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas. Larger companies have the ability to manage their risk by diversification. However, we currently lack diversification, in terms of both the nature and geographic scope of our business. As a result, we will likely be impacted more acutely by factors affecting our industry or the regions in which we operate than we would if our business were more diversified, increasing our risk profile. We cannot control activities on properties that we do not operate and are unable to control their proper operation and profitability. We do not operate all of the properties in which we own an ownership interest. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, the operations of these non-operated properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, an operator's breach of the applicable agreements or an operator's failure to act in ways that are in our best interests could reduce our production, revenues and reserves. The success and 43 Table of Contents timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including: •the nature and timing of the operator's drilling and other activities; •the timing and amount of required capital expenditures; •the operator's geological and engineering expertise and financial resources; •the approval of other participants in drilling wells; and •the operator's selection of suitable technology. Our historical financial information may not be representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone public company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical financial information prior to December 19, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been prepared on a carve-out basis from the accounts of SEP I and may not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been an independent, stand-alone entity during the periods prior to December 19, 2011 or those that we will achieve in the future. SEP I did not account for us, and we were not operated, as a separate, stand-alone company for the historical periods presented. The costs and expenses reflected in our historical financial information prior to December 19, 2011 include allocations of general and administrative expenses for employee, management, and administrative support provided by SOG to SEP I. These allocations were primarily based on the ratio of capital expenditures between the entities to which SOG provides services and us, and also on other factors, such as time spent on general management services and producing property activities. Although SOG will continue to provide these services to us pursuant to our Services Agreement and management believes such allocations are reasonable, such allocations may not be indicative of the actual expense that would have been incurred had we been an independent, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. In addition, we have not adjusted our historical financial information to reflect changes that have occurred in our cost structure and operations as a result of our transition to becoming a stand-alone public company, including potential increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale and increased costs associated with the SEC reporting and the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, requirements. Therefore, our historical financial information may not necessarily be indicative of what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows will be in the future. For additional information, see "Item 6. Selected Financial Data" and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our oil and natural gas development and production operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. To conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, and production and processing of, oil and natural gas. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and 44 Table of Contents results of operations. Please read "Item 1. Business—Environmental Matters and Regulation" for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. On April 2, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled, in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, that the CAA definition of "pollutant" includes carbon dioxide and other GHGs and, therefore, the EPA has the authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from automobiles. Thereafter, on December 15, 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climate changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. The EPA subsequently adopted two sets of regulations under the existing CAA, one that requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and another that requires certain stationary sources to obtain permits and employ technologies to reduce GHG emissions. The EPA published the motor vehicle final rule in May 2010 and it became effective January 2011 and applies to vehicles manufactured in model years 2012-2016. A recent rulemaking proposal by the EPA and the Department of Transportation's National Highway Traffic Safety Administration seeks to expand the motor vehicle rule to include vehicles manufactured in model years 2017-2025. The EPA adopted the tailoring rule in May 2010, and it also became effective January 2011, although it remains the subject of several pending lawsuits filed by industry groups. The tailoring rule establishes new GHG emissions thresholds that determine those stationary sources that must obtain permits under the PSD and Title V programs of the CAA. The permitting requirements of the PSD program apply to newly constructed or modified major sources. Obtaining a PSD permit requires a source to install BACT for those regulated pollutants that are emitted in certain quantities. Phase I of the tailoring rule, which became effective on January 2, 2011, requires projects already triggering PSD permitting that are also increasing GHG emissions by more than 75,000 tons per year to comply with BACT rules for their GHG emissions. Phase II of the tailoring rule, which became effective on July 1, 2011, requires preconstruction permits including BACT for new projects that emit 100,000 tons of GHG emissions per year or existing facilities that make major modifications increasing GHG emissions by more than 75,000 tons per year. Phase III of the tailoring rule, which is expected to go into effect in 2013, will seek to streamline the permitting process and permanently exclude smaller sources from the permitting process. Finally, in October 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the U.S., including NGLs fractionators and local natural gas/distribution companies, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. Furthermore, in November 2010, the EPA published a final rule expanding its existing GHG reporting rule to include onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution facilities. The final rule, which may be applicable to many of our facilities, requires reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities on an annual basis, with reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. The EPA also plans to implement GHG emissions standards for power plants in May 2012 and for refineries in November 2012. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act, or the ACES Act, that, among other things, would have established a cap-and-trade system to regulate GHG emissions and would have required an 80% reduction in GHG emissions from sources within the United States between 2012 and 2050. The ACES Act did not pass the Senate, however, and so was not enacted by the 111th Congress. The United States Congress is likely to consider again a climate change bill in the future. In addition, almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender 45 Table of Contents emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. As the number of GHG emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. Furthermore, some states have enacted renewable portfolio standards, which require utilities to purchase a certain percentage of their energy from renewable fuel sources. The EPA reporting rule and the adoption of any legislation or regulations that otherwise limit emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to monitor and report GHG emissions, purchase and operate emissions control systems to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory requirements. Any GHG emissions legislation or regulatory programs applicable to power plants or refineries could also increase the cost of consuming, and thus could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Please read "Item 1. Business—Environmental Matters and Regulation." Our operations are subject to environmental and operational safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. We may incur significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of stringent and complex environmental, health and safety requirements applicable to our oil and natural gas development and production operations. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations applicable to our operations, including that they may (i) require the acquisition of permits to conduct exploration, drilling and production operations; (ii) restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment or injected into formations in connection with oil and natural gas drilling, production and transportation activities; (iii) govern the sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling and completion process; (iv) limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; (v) require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells; (vi) result in the suspension or revocation of necessary permits, licenses and authorizations; (vii) impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from drilling and production operations; and (viii) require that additional pollution controls be installed. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often requiring difficult and costly compliance or corrective actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, the suspension or revocation of necessary permits, licenses and authorizations, the requirement that additional pollution controls be installed and, in some instances, the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. In addition, we may experience delays in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits, which may delay or interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become increasingly stringent over time. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of our operations due to our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and wastewater discharges related to our operations, and as a result of historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to strict and joint and several liability for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination or the operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which our wells are drilled and facilities where our 46 Table of Contents petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property or natural resource damages. In addition, the risk of accidental spills or releases could expose us to significant liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste control, handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Please read "Item 1. Business—Environmental Matters and Regulation" for more information. The third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex federal, state and other laws that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our business. The operations of the third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations that require obtaining and maintaining numerous permits, approvals and certifications from various federal, state and local government authorities. These third parties may incur substantial costs in order to comply with existing laws and regulations. If existing laws and regulations governing such third-party services are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to their operations, these changes may affect the costs that we pay for such services. Similarly, a failure to comply with such laws and regulations by the third parties on whom we rely could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Please read "Item 1. Business—Environmental Matters and Regulation" for a description of the laws and regulations that affect the third parties on whom we rely. The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the U.S. Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative contracts to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The U.S. Congress recently adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. In October 2011, the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, approved final rules that establish position limits for futures contracts on 28 physical commodities, including four energy commodities, and swaps, futures that are economically equivalent to those contracts. The rules provide an exemption for "bona fide hedging" transactions or positions, but this exemption is narrower than the exemption under existing CFTC position limit rules. The new limits generally will go into effect 60 days after the CFTC further defines the term "swap". The financial reform legislation may require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative contracts to spin off some of their derivatives contracts to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity contracts related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to 47 Table of Contents lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to produce oil and natural gas could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling and completion operations or are unable to dispose of the water we use at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or dispose of or recycle water used in our exploration and production operations, could adversely impact our operations. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and natural gas. The Clean Water Act imposes restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of produced waters and other oil and natural gas waste into navigable waters. Permits must be obtained to discharge pollutants to waters and to conduct construction activities in waters and wetlands. The Clean Water Act and similar state laws provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for any unauthorized discharges of pollutants and unauthorized discharges of reportable quantities of oil and other hazardous substances. Many state discharge regulations, and the Federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System general permits issued by the EPA, prohibit the discharge of produced water and sand, drilling fluids, drill cuttings and certain other substances related to the oil and natural gas industry into coastal waters. The EPA has also adopted regulations requiring certain oil and natural gas exploration and production facilities to obtain permits for storm water discharges. Indeed, on October 20, 2011, the EPA announced its intention to develop federal pre-treatment standards for wastewater discharges associated with hydraulic fracturing activities. If adopted, the new pretreatment rules will require coalbed methane and shale gas operations to pretreat wastewater before transferring it to treatment facilities. Proposed rules are expected in 2013 for coalbed methane and 2014 for shale gas. We cannot predict the impact that these standards may have on our business at this time, but these standards could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. As a new public company with listed equity securities, we are required to comply with laws, regulations and requirements, including the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related regulations of the SEC and the requirements of the NYSE with which we were not required to comply as a private company. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements will occupy a significant amount of time from our board of directors and management and will significantly increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make such compliance more time-consuming and costly. We will need to: •institute a more comprehensive compliance function; •design, establish, evaluate and maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; •comply with rules promulgated by the NYSE; 48 Table of Contents •prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws; •establish new internal policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and insider trading; •involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; and •establish an investor relations function. In addition, as a public company subject to these rules and regulations, it may be more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept greater coverage than we desire or to incur substantial costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and qualified members to serve on our board of directors, particularly the audit committee of the board of directors. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future and comply with the certification and reporting obligations under Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Further, our remediation efforts may not enable us to remedy or avoid material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in the future. Any failure to remediate material weaknesses or significant deficiencies and to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in our implementation or improvement of our internal controls over financial reporting could result in material misstatements that are not prevented or detected on a timely basis, which could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the NYSE or other regulatory authorities. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. We may incur more taxes and certain of our projects may become uneconomic if certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and production are eliminated as a result of future legislation. The President's proposed budget for fiscal year 2012 and his proposed American Jobs Act of 2011 contain proposals to eliminate certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any of the foregoing changes will actually be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate and/or defer certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and production. Any such change could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations by increasing the after-tax costs we incur which would in turn make it uneconomic to drill some locations if commodity prices are not sufficiently high, resulting in lower revenues and decreases in production and reserves. 49 Table of Contents Failure of our service providers or disruptions to our outsourcing relationships might negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. We rely on SOG for certain services necessary for us to be able to conduct our business. SOG may outsource some or all of these services to third parties, and a failure of all or part of SOG's relationships with its outsourcing providers could lead to delays in or interruptions of these services. Our reliance on SOG and others as service providers and on SOG's outsourcing relationships, and our limited ability to control certain costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some studies indicate a high failure rate of outsourcing relationships. A deterioration in the timeliness or quality of the services performed by the outsourcing providers or a failure of all or part of these relationships could lead to loss of institutional knowledge and interruption of services necessary for us to be able to conduct our business. The expiration of such agreements or the transition of services between providers could lead to similar losses of institutional knowledge or disruptions. Acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our assets and the assets of our customers and others may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our business or cause significant harm to our operations, such as full or partial disruption to the ability to produce, process, transport or distribute oil, natural gas or NGLs. Acts of terrorism as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with acts of terrorism could cause environmental repercussions that could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs. Our use of 2D and 3D seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2D and 3D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. In addition, the use of 3D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of such expenditures. As a result, our drilling activities may not be successful or economical and our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities in a particular area could decline. Risks Related to Our Relationships with Members of the Sanchez Group As long as we are controlled by SEP I, your ability to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval is limited. SEP I owns the majority of our outstanding common stock. As long as SEP I has voting control of our company, SEP I will have the ability to take many stockholder actions, including the election or removal of directors, irrespective of the vote of, and without prior notice to, any other stockholder. As a result, SEP I will have the ability to influence or control all matters affecting us, including: •the composition of our board of directors and, through our board of directors, decision-making with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers; •any determinations with respect to acquisitions of businesses, mergers or other business combinations; •our acquisition or disposition of assets; and 50 Table of Contents •our capital structure. SEP I's interests may not be the same as, or may conflict with, the interests of our other stockholders. As a result, actions that SEP I takes with respect to us, as our controlling stockholder, may not be favorable to us. In addition, this voting control may discourage transactions involving a change of control of our company, including transactions in which the holders of our common stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then-current market price. Furthermore, SEP I is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in our company to a third party without your approval or without providing for a purchase of your shares. We may have potential business conflicts of interest with members of the Sanchez Group regarding our past and ongoing relationships, and because of SEP I's controlling ownership in us, the resolution of these conflicts may not be favorable to us. Conflicts of interest may arise between members of the Sanchez Group and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: •labor, tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising under agreements with SOG; •employee recruiting and retention; •sales or distributions by SEP I of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us, which could be to one of our competitors; and •business opportunities that may be attractive to both members of the Sanchez Group and us. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and, even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. Finally, in connection with the IPO, we entered into several agreements with members of the Sanchez Group. These agreements were made in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship. The terms of these agreements may be more or less favorable to us than if they had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. While we are controlled by SEP I, SEP I may seek to cause us to amend these agreements on terms that may be less favorable to us than the original terms of the agreement. Pursuant to the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, SEP I and its affiliates are not required to offer corporate opportunities to us, and our directors and officers may be permitted to offer certain corporate opportunities to SEP I or its affiliates before us. Our board of directors includes persons who are also directors and/or officers of members of the Sanchez Group. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that: •SEP I and its affiliates are free to compete with us in any activity or line of business; •we do not have any interest or expectancy in any business opportunity, transaction, or other matter in which SEP I or its affiliates engage or seek to engage merely because we engage in the same or similar lines of business; •to the fullest extent permitted by law, SEP I and its affiliates will have no duty to communicate their knowledge of, or offer, any potential business opportunity, transaction, or other matter to us, and SEP I and its affiliates are free to pursue or acquire such business opportunity, transaction, or other matter for themselves or direct the business opportunity, transaction, or other matter to its affiliates; and •if any director or officer of any member of the Sanchez Group who is also one of our officers or directors becomes aware of a potential business opportunity, transaction, or other matter (other 51 Table of Contents than one expressly offered to that director or officer in writing solely in his or her capacity as our director or officer), that director or officer will have no duty to communicate or offer that business opportunity to us, and will be permitted to communicate or offer that business opportunity to such member of the Sanchez Group (or its affiliates) and that director or officer will not, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be deemed to have (1) breached or acted in a manner inconsistent with or opposed to his or her fiduciary or other duties to us regarding the business opportunity or (2) acted in bad faith or in a manner inconsistent with our best interests or those of our stockholders. We depend on SOG to provide us with certain services for our business. The services that SOG provides to us may not be sufficient to meet our needs, and we may have difficulty finding replacement services or be required to pay increased costs to replace these services after our agreements with SOG expire. Certain services required by us for the operation of our business, including general and administrative services, geological, geophysical and reserve engineering, lease and land administration, marketing, accounting, operational services, information technology services, compliance, insurance maintenance and management of outside professionals, are provided by SOG pursuant to our Services Agreement with SOG. The services provided under the Services Agreement commenced on the date that the IPO closed and will terminate five years thereafter. The term automatically extends for additional 12-month periods and is terminable by either party at any time upon 180 days written notice. See "Transactions with Related Persons" in the proxy statement for the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, which is incorporated by reference to this report. While these services are being provided to us by SOG, our operational flexibility to modify or implement changes with respect to such services or the amounts we pay for them is limited. After the expiration or termination of this agreement, we may not be able to replace these services or enter into appropriate third-party agreements on terms and conditions, including cost, comparable to those that we will receive from SOG under our agreements with SOG. We may lose our rights to the Sanchez Group's technological database, including its 3D and 2D seismic data, under certain circumstances. In connection with the Services Agreement that we entered into with SOG at the closing of the IPO, we have access to the unrestricted, proprietary portions of the technological database owned and maintained by the Sanchez Group and related to our properties, and SOG is otherwise required to interpret and use the database, to the extent relating to our properties, for our benefit under the Services Agreement. This database includes the 2D and 3D seismic data used for our exploration and development projects as well as the well logs, LAS files, scanned well documents and other well documents and software that are necessary for our daily operations. This information is critical for the operation and expansion of our business. Under certain circumstances, including if SOG provides at least 180 days' advance written notice of its desire to terminate the Services Agreement, the license agreement will terminate and we will lose our rights to this technological database unless members of the Sanchez Group permit us to retain some or all of these rights, which they may decline to do in their sole discretion. In such event, we are unlikely to be able to obtain rights to similar information under substantially similar commercial terms or to continue our business operations as proposed and our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected and it could delay or prevent an acquisition of us. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and investors in our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this 52 Table of Contents volatility, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price at which they purchased their shares. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to: •the price of oil and natural gas; •the success of our exploration and development operations, and the marketing of any oil we produce; •regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries where we operate; •the recruitment or departure of key personnel; •quarterly or annual variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; •market conditions in the industries in which we compete and issuance of new or changed securities; •analysts' reports or recommendations; •the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts; •the inability to meet the financial estimates of analysts who follow our common stock; •our issuance of any additional securities; •investor perception of our company and of the industry in which we compete; and •general economic, political and market conditions. A substantial portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the market. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. All of the shares sold in our IPO are be freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless purchased by our "affiliates" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The remaining shares held by SEP I and Ross Exploration are restricted securities as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may be sold in the U.S. public market only if registered or if they qualify for an exemption from registration, including by reason of Rules 144 or 701 under the Securities Act. All of our restricted shares will be eligible for sale in the public market beginning in 2012, subject in certain circumstances to the volume, manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144, and also to the lock-up agreements described under "Underwriting and Conflicts of Interest" in the prospectus relating to our IPO, or the prospectus. In addition, SEP I and its transferees have the right to require us to register the resale of their shares. See "Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions—Agreements Governing the Transactions—Registration Rights Agreement" in the prospectus. Additionally, we have registered all the shares of our common stock that we may issue under our employee benefit plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance unless, pursuant to their terms, these stock awards have vesting conditions or transfer restrictions attached to them. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. 53 Table of Contents We are subject to anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us. These provisions may also frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, who are responsible for appointing the members of our management team. Furthermore, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits, with some exceptions, stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Finally, our amended and restated bylaws establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. Although we believe these provisions together provide an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer to acquire us may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. We are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of other companies. SEP I owns more than 50% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, and we are a "controlled company" under the NYSE corporate governance standards. As a controlled company, we rely on certain exemptions from the NYSE standards that enable us to not have to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that: •a majority of our board of directors consists of independent directors; •we have a nominating and governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors, with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; •we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors, with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and •we conduct an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and governance committee and compensation committee. We rely on some or all of these exemptions, and, as a result, our stockholders do not have the same protection afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 