ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to all other information provided to you in this Annual Report. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to our Business We have a limited operating history as an independent company upon which you can evaluate our performance, and accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks that any newly independent company encounters. We completed our spin-off from GGP on January 12, 2012, and have limited experience operating as an independent company and performing various corporate functions, including human resources, tax administration, legal (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act") and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") and with the periodic reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act")), treasury administration, investor relations, internal audit, insurance, information technology and telecommunications services, as well as the accounting for items such as equity compensation. 8 Table of Contents Our business will be subject to the substantial risks inherent in the commencement of a new business enterprise in an intensely competitive industry. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in the early stages of independent business operations, particularly companies that are heavily affected by economic conditions and operate in highly competitive environments. We may face potential difficulties in obtaining operating and development capital. The successful execution of our business strategy will require the availability of substantial amounts of operating and development capital both initially and over time. Sources of such capital could include bank, life insurance company, pension plan or institutional investor borrowings, public and private offerings of debt or equity, including rights offerings, sales of certain assets and joint ventures. We have identified opportunities to invest significant capital to redevelop and refresh our properties to pursue tailored strategic initiatives, but we will sequence long-term redevelopment projects with leasing activity. We believe these capital investments will assist in increasing our revenues significantly and deliver solid net operating income growth over the medium term. We cannot assure that any capital will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all in order to satisfy our short or long-term cash needs. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources." We may be unable to reposition or redevelop some of our properties, which may have an adverse impact on our profitability. Our business strategy is focused on repositioning and redeveloping our properties. In connection with these repositioning and redevelopment projects, we will be subject to various risks, including the following: •we may not have sufficient capital to proceed with planned repositioning or redevelopment activities; •redevelopment costs of a project may exceed original estimates or available financing, possibly making the project unfeasible or unprofitable; •we may not be able to obtain zoning or other required governmental permits and authorizations; •occupancy rates and rents at a completed project may not meet projections and, therefore, the project may not be profitable; and •we may not be able to obtain anchor store and mortgage lender approvals, if applicable, for repositioning or redevelopment activities. There can be no assurance that our repositioning and redevelopment projects will have the desired results of attracting and retaining desirable tenants and increasing customer traffic. If repositioning or redevelopment projects are unsuccessful, our investments in those projects may not be fully recoverable from future operations or sales. We may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial health and may decrease our profitability. To execute our business strategy, we will require additional capital. Debt or equity financing, however, may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. The terms of any new debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. If we raise funds through the 9 Table of Contents issuance of additional common equity, either through public or private offerings or rights offerings, your percentage ownership in us would decline if you do not ratably participate. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, it could affect our financial health, which could negatively affect your investment in us. Economic conditions, especially in the retail sector, may have an adverse effect on our revenues and available cash. Unemployment, weak income growth, tight credit, declining consumer confidence and the need to pay down existing obligations may negatively impact consumer spending. Given these economic conditions, we believe there is a risk that the sales at stores operating in our malls may be adversely affected. This may hinder our ability to implement our strategies and may have an unfavorable effect on our operations and our ability to retain existing tenants and attract new tenants. We may be unable to lease or re-lease space in our properties on favorable terms or at all, which may adversely affect our revenues. Our results of operations depend on our ability to strategically lease space in our properties, including re-leasing space in properties where leases are expiring, optimizing our tenant mix or leasing properties on more economically favorable terms. We are continually focused on our ability to lease properties and collect rents from tenants. If we are unable to lease or re-lease space in our properties this may adversely affect our operations and revenues. Our tenants may be unable to pay minimum rents and expense recovery charges, which would have an adverse effect on our income and cash flow. If the sales at certain stores operating in our regional malls do not improve, tenants might be unable to pay their existing minimum rents or expense recovery charges, since these rents and charges would represent a higher percentage of their sales. If our tenants' sales do not improve, new tenants would be less likely to be willing to pay minimum rents as high as they would otherwise pay. We may not be able to collect rent sufficient to meet our costs. Because substantially all of our income is derived from rentals of real property, our income and cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of tenants are unable to meet their obligations. Certain co-tenancy provisions in our lease agreements may result in reduced rent payments, which may adversely affect our operations and occupancy. Some of our lease agreements include a co-tenancy provision which allows the mall tenant to pay a reduced rent amount and, in certain instances, terminate the lease, if we fail to maintain certain occupancy levels at the mall. In addition, certain of our tenants have the ability to terminate their leases with us prior to the lease expiration date if their sales do not meet agreed upon thresholds. Therefore, if occupancy, tenancy or sales fall below certain thresholds, rents we are entitled to receive from our retail tenants could be reduced and our ability to attract new tenants may be limited. The failure to fully recover cost reimbursements for common area maintenance, taxes and insurance from tenants could adversely affect our operating results. The computation of cost reimbursements from tenants for common area maintenance ("CAM"), insurance and real estate taxes is complex and involves numerous judgments including interpretation of lease terms and other tenant lease provisions. Most tenants make monthly fixed payments of CAM, real estate taxes and other cost reimbursement items. After the end of the calendar year, we compute each tenant's final cost reimbursements and issue a bill or credit for the full amount, after considering amounts paid by the tenant during the year. The billed amounts could be disputed by the tenant or 10 Table of Contents become the subject of a tenant audit or even litigation. There can be no assurance that we will collect all or substantially this entire amount. The bankruptcy or store closures of anchor stores or national tenants, may adversely affect our revenues. Some of our properties depend on anchor stores or national tenants, which are large tenants such as department stores and tenants with chains of stores in many of our properties, respectively, to attract shoppers. We derive significant revenues from these tenants. Our leases generally do not contain provisions designed to ensure the creditworthiness of our tenants and in recent years a number of companies in the retail industry, including some of our tenants, have declared bankruptcy or voluntarily closed certain of their stores. We may be unable to re-lease such space or to re-lease it on comparable or more favorable terms. As a result, the bankruptcy, insolvency, closure or general downturn in the business of an anchor store or national tenant, as well as requests from such tenants for significant rent relief or other lease concessions, may adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Our ability to change our portfolio is limited because real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Equity real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which may limit our ability to strategically change our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic, financial, investment or other conditions. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing and other factors, including supply and demand for space, that are beyond our control. Moreover, there are some limitations under federal income tax laws applicable to REITs that limit our ability to sell assets. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms we set, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. The number of prospective buyers interested in purchasing malls is limited. We cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. In addition, economic and capital market conditions might make it more difficult for us to sell properties or might adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers might experience increased costs of debt financing or other difficulties in obtaining debt financing. In addition, significant expenditures associated with each equity investment, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. If income from a property declines while the related expenses do not decline, our income and cash available to us would be adversely affected. If it becomes necessary or desirable for us to dispose of one or more of our mortgaged properties, we might not be able to obtain a release of the lien on the mortgaged property without payment of the associated debt. The foreclosure of a mortgage on a property or inability to sell a property could adversely affect the level of cash available to us. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a competitive business. There are numerous shopping facilities that compete with our properties in attracting retailers to lease space and many of our competitors operate on a much larger scale than we do. In addition, retailers at our properties face continued competition from retailers at other regional malls, outlet malls and other discount shopping malls, discount shopping clubs, full-line large format value retailers, catalog companies, and through internet sales and telemarketing. Competition could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents In particular, the increase in both the availability and popularity of online shopping has created a growing source of competitive pressure on the retailers at our properties. The ability of online retailers to offer a wide range of products for sale, often with substantial price and tax savings, and free or discounted shipping, allows these online retailers to compete with the retailers at our properties by offering added convenience and cost-saving incentives to consumers in both high density major metropolitan markets and rural areas. Additionally, small businesses and specialty retailers, who have previously been limited to marketing and selling their products within their immediate geographical area, are now able to reach a broader group of consumers and compete with the retailers at our properties. We also compete with other major real estate investors with significant capital for attractive investment opportunities. These competitors include REITs, investment banking firms and private institutional investors. Our ability to realize our strategies and capitalize on our competitive strengths are dependent on our ability to effectively operate a large portfolio of malls, maintain good relationships with our tenants and consumers, and remain well-capitalized, and our failure to do any of the foregoing could affect our ability to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate. Our business is dependent on perceptions by retailers and shoppers of the convenience and attractiveness of our retail properties, and our inability to maintain a positive perception may adversely affect our revenues. We are dependent on perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our retail properties. If retailers and shoppers perceive competing retail properties and other retailing options such as the internet to be more convenient or of a higher quality, our revenues may be adversely affected. Our significant indebtedness could have an adverse impact on our financial health and operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2011, our total combined contractual debt, excluding non-cash debt market rate adjustments, was $1.12 billion on an actual basis. Our significant indebtedness could have important consequences on the value of our common stock including: •limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes; •limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of the business or to pay dividends; •increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates, particularly given that certain indebtedness bears interest at variable rates; •limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities, access equity, reinvest in and develop our properties, and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; •limiting our ability, or increasing the costs, to refinance indebtedness; •limiting our ability to enter into marketing and hedging transactions by reducing the number of potential counterparties with whom we could enter into such transactions as well as the volume of those transactions; and •giving secured lenders the ability to foreclose on our assets. 12 Table of Contents Our debt obligations and ability to comply with related covenants could impact our financial condition or future operating results. In January 2012, we became a party to a senior secured credit facility and a subordinated revolving credit facility, which expose us to the typical risks associated with the use of leverage. We also have property-level debt, which limits our ability to take certain actions with respect to the properties securing such debt. Increased leverage makes it more difficult for us to withstand adverse economic conditions or business plan variances, to take advantage of new business opportunities, or to make necessary capital expenditures. The senior secured credit facility has affirmative and negative covenants that are customary for a real estate loan, including, without limitation, restrictions on incurrence of indebtedness and liens on the mortgage collateral; restrictions on pledges; restrictions on subsidiary distributions; with respect to the mortgage collateral, limitations on our ability to enter into transactions including mergers, consolidations, sales of assets for less than fair market value and similar transactions; conduct of business; restricted distributions; transactions with affiliates; and limitation on speculative hedge agreements. In addition, we are required to comply with the following financial maintenance covenants: (1) net indebtedness to value ratio, (2) liquidity, (3) minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, (4) minimum tangible net worth, and (5) minimum portfolio debt yield. Failure to comply with the covenants in the senior secured credit facilities would result in a default under the credit agreement governing these facilities and, absent a waiver or an amendment from our lenders, permit the acceleration of all outstanding borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities, which would also result in a cross-default our subordinated revolving credit facility. No assurance can be given that we would be successful in obtaining such waiver or amendment in this current financial climate, or that any accommodations that we were able to negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those in the senior secured credit facilities or subordinated revolving credit facility. In addition, any such default may result in the cross-default of our other indebtedness. A substantial portion of our cash flow could be required for debt service and, as a result, might not be available for our operations or other purposes. Any substantial decrease in cash flows or any substantial increase in expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements or force us to modify our operations. Our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business, regulatory and economic conditions. We have a history of net losses and may not be profitable in the future. Our historical combined financial data was carved-out from the financial information of GGP and shows that we have a history of losses, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve sustained profitability going forward. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we incurred net losses of $(27.0) million, $(23.9) million and $(30.2) million, respectively. See "Selected Historical Combined Financial Data." If we cannot improve our profitability or generate positive cash from operating activities, the trading value of our common stock may decline. National, regional and local economic conditions may adversely affect our business. Our real property investments are influenced by the national, regional and local economy, which may be negatively impacted by plant closings, industry slowdowns, increased unemployment, lack of availability of consumer credit, increased levels of consumer debt, declining consumer sentiment, poor housing market conditions, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters and other factors. Similarly, local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, retail space or retail goods, and the supply and creditworthiness of current and prospective tenants may affect the ability of our properties to generate significant revenue. 13 Table of Contents Some of our properties are subject to potential natural or other disasters. A number of our properties are located in areas which are subject to natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes and oil spills. For example, certain of our properties are located in California or in other areas with higher risk of earthquakes. Furthermore, some of our properties are located in coastal regions, and would therefore be affected by any future rises in sea levels. Possible terrorist activity or other acts of violence could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Future terrorist attacks in the United States or other acts of violence may result in declining economic activity, which could harm the demand for goods and services offered by our tenants and the value of our properties and might adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. Such a decrease in retail demand could make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. Terrorist activities or violence also could directly affect the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss, and the availability of insurance for such acts, or of insurance generally, might be lower or cost more, which could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that our tenants are affected by future attacks, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to meet obligations under their existing leases. These acts might erode business and consumer confidence and spending and might result in increased volatility in national and international financial markets and economies. Any one of these events might decrease demand for real estate, decrease or delay the occupancy of our properties, and limit our access to capital or increase our cost of raising capital. We could incur significant costs related to government regulation and litigation over environmental matters and various other federal, state and local regulatory requirements. Under various federal, state or local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property and may be held liable to third parties for bodily injury or property damage (investigation and/or clean-up costs) incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or otherwise caused the release of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination discovered at our properties may adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or borrow with respect to the real estate. Our properties have been subjected to varying degrees of environmental assessment at various times; however, the identification of new areas of contamination, a change in the extent or known scope of contamination or changes in cleanup requirements could result in significant costs to us. Other federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations require abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of demolition or certain renovations or remodeling, the cost of which may be substantial for certain redevelopments. These regulations also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air, which may necessitate implementation of site specific maintenance practices. Certain laws also impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with asbestos-containing materials. Asbestos-containing building materials are present at some of our properties and may be present at others. To minimize the risk of onsite asbestos being improperly disturbed, we have developed and implemented asbestos operations and maintenance programs to manage asbestos-containing materials and suspected asbestos-containing materials in accordance with applicable legal requirements. 14 Table of Contents We also may incur costs to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and similar laws, which require that all public accommodations meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with such laws has not had a material adverse effect on our operating results or competitive position in the past, but could have such an effect in the future. Some potential losses are not insured, which may adversely affect our profitability. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, terrorism, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are adequate and appropriate in light of the size and scope of our portfolio and business operations. There are, however, some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, which generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. If this happens, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. While substantially all of our tenant leases contain provisions designed to partially mitigate the negative impact of inflation (such as overage rent and escalation clauses), they may not adequately do so. A rise in interest rates may increase our overall interest rate expense. A rise in interest rate could have an immediate adverse impact on us due to our outstanding variable-rate debt. This risk can be managed or mitigated by utilizing interest rate protection products that generally allow us to replace variable-rate debt with fixed-rate debt. However, in an increasing interest rate environment the fixed rates we can obtain with such interest rate protection products will also continue to increase. In addition, in the event of a rise in interest rates, we may be unable to replace maturing debt with new debt at equal or better interest rates. We may not be able to meet the conditions for qualification as a REIT or thereafter maintain our status as a REIT, which would deny us certain favorable tax treatment. We plan to elect to be treated as a REIT in connection with the filing of our federal income tax return for 2011 and we intend to maintain this status in future periods. Such election would be retroactive to the date of our formation. We believe that, commencing with the 2011 taxable year; we were organized and have operated so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. Federal income tax purposes. It is possible that we may not meet the conditions for qualification as a REIT at the time of such election. In addition, once an entity is qualified as a REIT, the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") generally requires that such entity pay tax on or distribute 100% of its capital gains and distribute at least 90% of its ordinary taxable income to stockholders. To avoid current entity level U.S. federal income taxes, we expect to distribute 100% of our capital gains and ordinary income to stockholders annually. If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we would not be allowed to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and federal income tax. If any of our REIT subsidiaries fail to qualify as a REIT, such failure could result in our loss of REIT status. If we lose our REIT status, corporate level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, would apply to our taxable income at regular corporate rates. As a result, the amount available for distribution to holders of equity securities that would otherwise receive dividends would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to make 15 Table of Contents distributions. In addition, unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. An ownership limit, certain anti-takeover defenses and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain the following limitations: The ownership limit. Generally, for us to qualify as a REIT under the Code for a taxable year, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer "individuals" at any time during the last half of such taxable year. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that no person may own more than 9.9% of the number or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding shares of capital stock unless our board of directors provides a waiver from the ownership restrictions. The Code defines "individuals" for purposes of the requirement described above to include some types of entities. However, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also permits us to exempt a person from the ownership limit upon the satisfaction of certain conditions described therein. Selected provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors: •to cause us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock; •to classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred stock; and •to set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified stock that we issue. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also prohibits our stockholders from acting by written consent. Selected provisions of our amended and restated bylaws. Our amended and restated bylaws contain the following limitations: •restrictions on the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting without 20% or more of the voting power of the issued and outstanding shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; and •rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings. Selected provisions of Delaware law. We are a Delaware corporation, and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law applies to us. In general, Section 203 prevents an "interested stockholder" (as defined below), from engaging in a "business combination" (as defined in the statute) with us for three years following the date that person becomes an interested stockholder unless one or more of the following occurs: •before that person became an interested stockholder, our board of directors approved the transaction in which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder or approved the business combination; •upon completion of the transaction that resulted in the interested stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) stock held by directors who are also officers of our company and by employee stock plans that do not provide employees with the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or 16 Table of Contents •following the transaction in which that person became an interested stockholder, the business combination is approved by our board of directors and authorized at a meeting of stockholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock not owned by the interested stockholder. The statute defines "interested stockholder" as any person that is the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or is our affiliate or associate and was the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock at any time within the three-year period immediately before the date of determination. In addition, Brookfield and Brookfield's co-investors in GGP ("the Brookfield Consortium") have a significant ownership of our Common stock. This ownership of our Common stock may impede a change in control transaction. See "Risks Related to our Common stock Generally—Our substantial stockholders may exert influence over us that may be adverse to our best interests and those of our other stockholders." Each item discussed above may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company, even if a proposed transaction is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock. Further, these provisions may apply in instances where some stockholders consider a transaction beneficial to them. As a result, our stock price may be negatively affected by these provisions. Risks Related to the Spin-off Our ability to operate our business effectively may suffer if we do not establish our own financial, administrative and other support functions to operate as a stand-alone company. Historically, we have relied on the financial, administrative and other support functions of GGP to operate our business and we continue to rely on GGP for these and other vital services on a transitional basis pursuant to the transition services agreement that we entered into with GGP. We will also need to rapidly establish our own financial structure. Any failure in our own financial structure or administrative policies and systems could materially harm our business and financial performance. The agreements related to the spin-off of Rouse that we have entered into with GGP involve conflicts of interest. Because the spin-off involved the separation of certain of GGP's existing businesses into two independent companies, we entered into certain agreements with GGP to provide a framework for our relationship with GGP following the spin-off. The terms of the spin-off agreed to in the separation agreement and the transition services agreement between GGP and us were determined by persons who were at the time employees, officers or directors of GGP or its subsidiaries and, accordingly, had a conflict of interest. As a result of the spin-off from GGP, we may experience increased costs resulting from a decrease in the purchasing power and other operational efficiencies and a loss of other benefits we had due to our association with GGP. Historically, we have shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and retailer relationships with GGP. We have historically been able to take advantage of GGP's purchasing power in technology and services, including information technology, marketing, insurance, treasury services, property support and the procurement of goods. As a smaller, separate, stand-alone company, it may be more difficult for us to obtain goods, technology and services at prices and on terms as favorable as those available to us prior to our spin-off from GGP. Likewise, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain desired retailers. The loss of these benefits of scope and scale may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents In connection with the spin-off from GGP, we became subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act and are required to prepare our financial statements according to the rules and regulations required by the SEC. In addition, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner or to otherwise comply with applicable law could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we, among other things, establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and disclosure purposes. Establishing and monitoring these controls could result in significant costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. Prior to the spin-off, we entered into agreements with GGP pursuant to which GGP has agreed to provide some of these services to us on a transitional basis. These services, which will only be provided for a maximum of 18 months from the date of the spin-off, may not be sufficient to meet our needs and, after these agreements end, we may not be able to perform these services internally, replace these services at all or obtain these services at acceptable prices and terms. Our historical combined financial information is not representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical combined financial information included herein does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a stand-alone company during the periods presented or those we will achieve in the future. We may not realize the benefits we anticipate from the spin-off, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We may not realize the benefits that we anticipated from our spin-off from GGP. These benefits include the following: •allowing our management to focus its efforts on our strategic plans and tailored initiatives for each of our properties; •enabling us to allocate our capital more efficiently and gain direct access to capital by adopting the capital structure and investment policy best suited to our financial profile and business needs; •pursuing growth opportunities through redevelopment of existing properties or acquisition of new properties; •improving the tenant mix of our malls; •providing us with direct access to the debt and equity capital markets; and •enhancing our profile with customers in the markets we serve. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the spin-off for a variety of reasons. For example, the process of operating as a newly independent public company may distract our management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities. If we do not realize the anticipated benefits from our spin-off for any reason, our business may be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock Generally The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: •our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other comparable companies; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results and other factors related to our business; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; •the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; •the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; •our ability to implement our business strategy; •our tax payments; •our ability to raise capital; •overall market fluctuations; and •general economic conditions. Future sales of our shares could depress the market price of our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of March 26, 2012, approximately 48.88 million shares of our common stock are outstanding. All such shares will be freely tradable without restriction under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") except for any such shares held at any time by any of our "affiliates," as such term is defined under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. Pursuant to a registration rights agreement we entered into with Brookfield, we will agree that upon Brookfield's request we will use our commercially reasonable efforts to effect a registration under applicable federal and state securities laws for shares of our common stock held by Brookfield. Brookfield is not subject to any lock-up agreements or any other contractual agreements not to dispose of our shares. Any disposition by Brookfield, or any of our substantial shareholders, of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such dispositions could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities, which could harm our business prospects. 19 Table of Contents Our substantial stockholder may exert influence over us that may be adverse to our best interests and those of our other stockholders. Brookfield's consortium beneficially owns approximately 54.38% of our common stock (based on their publicly reported holdings). The concentration of ownership of our outstanding common stock held by our substantial stockholder may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of some or all of these investors. The interests of our substantial stockholder, or any of its affiliates could conflict with or differ from the interests of our other stockholders. For example, the concentration of ownership held by the substantial stockholder, even if they are not acting in a coordinated manner, could allow them to influence our policies and strategy and could delay, defer or prevent a change of control or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination that may otherwise be favorable to us and our other stockholders. A substantial stockholder or affiliate thereof may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Following the recently completed rights offering, Brookfield's consortium's ownership of our common stock increased to more than 50%, as a result of this, the Company is eligible to avail itself of exemptions relating to the independence of the board of directors and certain board committees, for NYSE purposes, including requirements that: (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; (2) compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and (3) director nominees be selected or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. As of March 27, 2012, the Company had not elected to avail itself of these exemptions for NYSE purposes. In addition, Brookfield's consortium is able to control virtually all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors. Brookfield has agreed that it will not, in connection with a merger, combination, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or other similar business combination transaction involving Rouse Properties, convert, sell, exchange, transfer or convey any shares of common stock that are owned, directly or indirectly, by it on terms that are more favorable than those available to all other holders of common stock. This restriction does not, however, limit Brookfield's ability to sell its shares of common stock to a third party at a higher price in circumstances other than the foregoing transactions. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains forward looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward looking statements give our current expectations relating to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business. You can identify forward looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to current or historical facts. These statements may include words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "forecast," "plan," "intend," "believe," "may," "should," "would," "could," "likely," and other words of similar expression. Forward looking statements should not be unduly relied upon. They give our expectations about the future and are not guarantees. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance and achievements to materially differ from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. We caution you, therefore, not to rely on these forward looking statements. In this Annual Report, for example, we make forward looking statements discussing our expectations about: •future repositioning and redevelopment opportunities; 20 Table of Contents •expectations of our revenues, income, FFO, Core FFO, NOI, Core NOI, capital expenditures, income tax and other contingent liabilities, dividends, leverage, capital structure or other financial items; •future liquidity; and •future management plans. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward looking statements include: •our limited operating history as an independent company; •our inability to obtain operating and development capital; •our inability to reposition and redevelop some of our properties; •adverse economic conditions in the retail sector; •our inability to lease or release space in our properties; •the inability of our tenants to pay minimum rents and expense recovery charges and the impact of co-tenancy provisions in our leases; •our inability to sell real estate quickly and restrictions on transfer; •our inability to compete effectively; •our significant indebtedness; •the adverse effect of inflation; •our inability to qualify for or maintain our status as a REIT; •our new directors and officers may change our current long-range plans; •our inability to establish our own financial, administrative and other support functions to operate as a stand-alone business and loss of operational efficiency we had as a part of GGP; and •the other risks described in "Risk Factors." These forward looking statements present our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this Annual Report. Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to modify or revise any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Annual Report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 