ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to all other information provided to you in this Annual Report. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Risks Related to our BusinessWe have a limited operating history as an independent company upon which you can evaluate our performance, and accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks that any recently independent company encounters. We are a Delaware corporation that was created to hold certain asset and liabilities of GGP. Prior to January 12, 2012, we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of GGP Limited Partnership ("GGPLP"). GGP distributed the assets and liabilities of 30 of its wholly-owned properties to us on January 12, 2012 ("Spin-Off Date"). We completed our spin-off from GGP on January 12, 2012, and have limited experience operating as an independent company and performing various corporate functions, including human resources, tax administration, legal (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act") and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") and with the periodic reporting obligations of the Exchange Act), treasury administration, investor relations, internal audit, insurance, information technology and telecommunications services, and accounting functions.11Table of Contents Our business is subject to the substantial risks inherent in the early stages of a business enterprise in an intensely competitive industry. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in the early stages of independent business operations, particularly companies that are heavily affected by economic conditions and operate in highly competitive environments.We may face potential difficulties in obtaining operating and development capital. The successful execution of our business strategy requires the availability of substantial amounts of operating and development capital over time. Sources of such capital could include bank, life insurance company, pension plan or institutional investor borrowings, public and private offerings of debt or equity, including rights offerings, sales of certain assets and joint ventures. We have identified opportunities to invest significant capital to reposition and refresh our properties, but we will sequence redevelopment projects with leasing activity. We cannot assure that any capital will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all in order to satisfy our short or long-term cash needs. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Liquidity and Capital Resources."We may be unable to reposition or redevelop some of our properties, which may have an adverse impact on our profitability. Our business strategy is focused on repositioning and redeveloping our properties. In connection with these repositioning and redevelopment projects, we will be subject to various risks, including but not limited to the following:•we may not have sufficient capital to proceed with planned repositioning or redevelopment activities;•redevelopment costs of a project may exceed original estimates or available financing, possibly making the project unfeasible or unprofitable;•we may not be able to obtain zoning or other required governmental permits and authorizations;•occupancy rates and rents at a completed project may not meet projections and, therefore, the project may not be profitable; and•we may not be able to obtain anchor store and mortgage lender approvals, if applicable, for repositioning or redevelopment activities. There can be no assurance that our repositioning and redevelopment projects will have the desired results of attracting and retaining desirable tenants and increasing customer traffic. If repositioning or redevelopment projects are unsuccessful, our investments in those projects may not be fully recoverable from future operations.We may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial health and may decrease our profitability. To continue to execute our business strategy, we will require additional capital. Debt or equity financing, however, may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. The terms of any new debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. If we raise funds through the issuance of additional common equity, either through public or private offerings or rights offerings, your percentage ownership in us would decline if you do not ratably participate. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, it could affect our financial health, which could negatively affect your investment in us.Economic conditions, especially in the retail sector, may have an adverse effect on our revenues and available cash. Unemployment, weak income growth, tight credit, declining consumer confidence and the need to pay down existing obligations may negatively impact consumer spending. Given these economic conditions, there is a risk that the sales at stores operating in our malls may be adversely affected. This may hinder our ability to implement our strategies and may have an unfavorable effect on our operations and our ability to retain existing tenants and attract new tenants.We may be unable to lease or re-lease space in our properties on favorable terms or at all, which may adversely affect our revenues.12Table of Contents Our results of operations depend on our ability to strategically lease space in our properties, including re-leasing space in properties where leases are expiring, optimizing our tenant mix or leasing properties on more economically favorable terms. We are continually focused on our ability to lease properties and collect rents from tenants. If we are unable to lease or re-lease space in our properties this may adversely affect our operations and revenues.Our tenants may be unable to pay minimum rents and expense recovery charges, which would have an adverse effect on our income and cash flow. If the sales at stores operating in our malls decline, tenants might be unable to pay their existing minimum rents or expense recovery charges, since these rents and charges would represent a higher percentage of their sales. If our tenants' sales decline, new tenants would be less likely to be willing to pay minimum rents as high as they would otherwise pay. We may not be able to collect rent sufficient to meet our costs. Because substantially all of our income is derived from rentals of real property, our income and cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of tenants are unable to meet their obligations.Certain co-tenancy provisions in our lease agreements may result in reduced rent payments, which may adversely affect our operations and occupancy. Some of our lease agreements include a co-tenancy provision which allows the mall tenant to pay a reduced rent amount and, in certain instances, terminate the lease, if we fail to maintain a certain number of anchor tenants or a certain occupancy level at the mall. In addition, certain of our tenants have the ability to terminate their leases with us prior to the lease expiration date if their sales do not meet agreed upon thresholds. Therefore, if occupancy, tenancy or sales fall below certain thresholds, rents we are entitled to receive from our retail tenants could be reduced and our ability to attract new tenants may be limited.The failure to fully recover cost reimbursements for common area maintenance, taxes and insurance from tenants could adversely affect our operating results. The computation of cost reimbursements from tenants for common area maintenance ("CAM"), insurance and real estate taxes is complex and involves numerous judgments, including interpretation of lease terms and other tenant lease provisions. Most tenants make monthly fixed payments of CAM, real estate taxes and other cost reimbursement items. After the end of the calendar year, we compute each tenant's final cost reimbursements and issue a bill or credit for the full amount, after considering amounts paid by the tenant during the year. The billed amounts could be disputed by the tenant or become the subject of a tenant audit or even litigation. There can be no assurance that we will collect all or substantially all of this entire amount. Our properties are also subject to the risk of increases in CAM and other operating expenses, which typically include real estate taxes, energy and other utility costs, repairs, maintenance and capital improvements to common areas, security, housekeeping, property and liability insurance and administrative costs. For example, municipalities might seek to raise real estate taxes paid by our property in their jurisdiction because of their strained budgets or for other reasons. If operating expenses increase, the availability of other comparable retail space in our specific geographic markets might limit our ability to pass these increases through to tenants, or, if we do pass all or a part of these increases on, might lead tenants to seek retail space elsewhere, which, in either case, could adversely affect our results of operations and limit our ability to make distributions to stockholders.13Table of ContentsWe rely on major tenants, making us vulnerable to changes in the business and financial condition of such tenants. As of December 31, 2013, our tenants that generate revenues that are equal to or exceed 1.5% of our aggregate revenues are as follows:Tenant RevenuesLimited Brands, Inc. 4.1%Foot Locker, Inc. 3.3%Cinemark USA, Inc. 2.4%jcpenney Company, Inc. 2.3%American Eagle Outfitters, Inc. 2.1%Zales Corporation 1.8%Sterling Jewelers, Inc. 1.8%Sears Holdings Corporation 1.8%Macy's 1.8%Ascena Retail Group, Inc. 1.6%Genesco Inc. 1.6%Aeropostale 1.5%Luxottica Retail North America Inc. 1.5% The retail shopping sector is affected by economic conditions as well as the competitive nature of the retail business and the competition for market share where stronger retailers have out-positioned some of the weaker retailers. These shifts have forced some market share away from weaker retailers and required them, in some cases, to declare bankruptcy and/or close stores. In the event of deterioration in the financial condition of our major tenants, we may be required to write-off and/or accelerate depreciation and amortization expense associated with a significant portion of the tenant-related deferred charges in future periods. Our income and ability to meet financial obligations could also be adversely affected in the event of the bankruptcy, insolvency or significant downturn in the business of one of these tenants. In addition, our results could be adversely affected if one or more of these tenants do not renew their leases as they expire.The bankruptcy or store closures of anchor stores or national tenants may adversely affect our revenues. Some of our properties depend on anchor stores or national tenants, which are large tenants such as department stores and tenants with chains of stores in many of our properties, respectively, to attract shoppers. We derive significant revenues from these tenants. Our leases generally do not contain provisions designed to ensure the creditworthiness of our tenants and in recent years a number of companies in the retail industry, including some of our tenants, have declared bankruptcy or voluntarily closed certain of their stores. We may be unable to re-lease such space or to re-lease it on comparable or more favorable terms. As a result, the bankruptcy, insolvency, closure or general downturn in the business of an anchor store or national tenant, as well as requests from such tenants for significant rent relief or other lease concessions, may trigger co-tenancy provisions and/or may adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make distributions to stockholders.Our ability to change our portfolio is limited because real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Equity real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which may limit our ability to strategically change our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic, financial, investment or other conditions. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing and other factors, including supply and demand for space, that are beyond our control. Moreover, there are some limitations under federal income tax laws applicable to REITs that limit our ability to sell assets. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms we set, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. The number of prospective buyers interested in purchasing malls is limited. We cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. In addition, economic and capital market conditions might make it more difficult for us to sell properties or might adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers might experience increased costs of debt financing or other difficulties in obtaining debt financing.14Table of Contents In addition, significant expenditures associated with each equity investment, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. If income from a property declines while the related expenses do not decline, our income and cash available to us would be adversely affected. If it becomes necessary or desirable for us to dispose of one or more of our mortgaged properties, we might not be able to obtain a release of the lien on the mortgaged property without payment of the associated debt. The foreclosure of a mortgage on a property or inability to sell a property could adversely affect the level of cash available to us. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We operate in a competitive business. There are numerous shopping facilities that compete with our properties in attracting retailers to lease space and many of our competitors operate on a much larger scale than we do. Our properties are generally regional malls in protected markets or submarkets and our ability to compete for certain tenants may be limited as a result. In addition, retailers at our properties face continued competition from retailers at other regional malls, outlet malls and other discount shopping malls, discount shopping clubs, full-line large format value retailers, catalog companies, and through internet sales and telemarketing. Competition could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. In particular, the increase in both the availability and popularity of online shopping has created a growing source of competitive pressure on the retailers at our properties. In certain categories, such as books, music and electronics, online retailing has become a significant proportion of total sales and has affected retailers in those categories significantly. The ability of online retailers to offer a wide range of products for sale, often with substantial price and tax savings, and free or discounted shipping, allows these online retailers to compete with the retailers at our properties by offering added convenience and cost-saving incentives to consumers in both high density major metropolitan markets and rural areas. Additionally, small businesses and specialty retailers, who have previously been limited to marketing and selling their products within their immediate geographical area, are now able to reach a broader group of consumers and compete with the retailers at our properties. We also compete with other major real estate investors with significant capital for attractive investment opportunities. These competitors include REITs, investment banking firms and private institutional investors. Our ability to realize our strategies and capitalize on our competitive strengths are dependent on our ability to effectively operate a large portfolio of malls, maintain good relationships with our tenants and consumers, and remain well-capitalized, and our failure to do any of the foregoing could affect our ability to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate.Our business is dependent on perceptions by retailers and shoppers of the convenience and attractiveness of our retail properties, and our inability to maintain a positive perception may adversely affect our revenues. We are dependent on perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our retail properties. If retailers and shoppers perceive competing retail properties and other retailing options to be more convenient or of a higher quality, our revenues may be adversely affected.Changes in the retail industry, particularly among anchor tenant retailers, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The income we generate depends in part on our anchor tenants' ability to attract customers to our properties and generate traffic, which affects the property's ability to attract in-line tenants, and thus the revenue generated by the property. In recent years, in connection with economic conditions and other changes in the retail industry, some anchor tenant retailers have experienced decreases in operating performance and, in response, they are contemplating strategic, operational and other changes. The strategic and operational changes being considered by anchor tenants, including combinations and other consolidations designed to increase scale, leverage with suppliers like landlords, and other efficiencies, might result in the restructuring of these companies. Any such restructuring could involve withdrawal from certain geographic areas, such as secondary or tertiary trade areas where many of our properties are located, and closures or sales of stores operated by them. These developments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our indebtedness could have an adverse impact on our financial health and operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2013, our total consolidated contractual debt, excluding non-cash debt market rate adjustments, was $1.5 billion. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences on the value of our common stock including:15Table of Contents•limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes;•limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of the business or to pay dividends;•increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates, particularly given that certain indebtedness bears interest at variable rates;•limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities, access equity, reinvest in and develop our properties, and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation;•limiting our ability, or increasing the costs, to refinance indebtedness;•limiting our ability to enter into marketing and hedging transactions by reducing the number of potential counterparties with whom we could enter into such transactions as well as the volume of those transactions; and•giving secured lenders the ability to foreclose on our assets.The following table shows the scheduled maturities of mortgages, notes, and loans payable as of December 31, 2013 and for the next five years and thereafter (in thousands):2014 $67,2852015 60,2242016 362,5792017 259,5892018 325,821Thereafter 388,631 $1,464,129Unamortized market rate adjustment (9,583)Total mortgages, notes and loans payable $1,454,546Our debt obligations and ability to comply with related covenants could impact our financial condition or future operating results. We are a party to the 2013 Senior Facility, under which the 2013 Revolver provides for borrowings on a revolving basis of up to $250 million and the 2013 Term Loan provides a senior secured term loan of $260 million. The 2013 Senior Facility exposes us to the typical risks associated with the use of leverage. We also have property-level debt, which limits our ability to take certain actions with respect to the properties securing such debt. Increased leverage makes it more difficult for us to withstand adverse economic conditions or business plan variances, to take advantage of new business opportunities, or to make necessary capital expenditures. The 2013 Senior Facility contains representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and defaults that are customary for such a real estate loan. In addition, the 2013 Senior Facility requires compliance with certain financial covenants, including borrowing base loan to value and debt yield, corporate maximum leverage ratio, minimum ratio of adjusted consolidated earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization to fixed charges, minimum tangible net worth, minimum mortgaged property requirement, maximum unhedged variable rate debt and maximum recourse indebtedness. Failure to comply with the covenants in the 2013 Senior Facility would result in a default thereunder and, absent a waiver or an amendment from our lenders, permit the acceleration of all outstanding borrowings under the 2013 Senior Facility. No assurance can be given that we would be successful in obtaining such waiver or amendment in this current financial climate, or that any accommodations that we were able to negotiate would be on terms as favorable as those in the 2013 Senior Facility. In addition, any such default may result in the cross-default of our other indebtedness. A substantial portion of our cash flow could be required for debt service and, as a result, might not be available for our operations or other purposes. Any substantial decrease in cash flows or any substantial increase in expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements or force us to modify our operations. Our level of indebtedness may make us more 16Table of Contentsvulnerable to economic downturns and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business, regulatory and economic conditions.We have a history of net losses and may not be profitable in the future. Our historical consolidated and combined financial data shows that we have a history of losses, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve sustained profitability going forward. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we incurred GAAP net losses of $(54.7) million, $(68.7) million, and $(27.0) million, respectively. See "Selected Financial Data." If we do not improve our profitability or if we generate negative cash flow from operating activities, the trading value of our common stock may decline.Our real estate assets may be subject to impairment charges. On a periodic basis, we assess whether there are any indicators that the value of our real estate assets and other investments may be impaired. A property's value is impaired only if the estimate of the aggregate future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) to be generated by the property are less than the carrying value of the property. In our estimate of cash flows, we consider factors such as expected future operating income, trends and prospects, the effects of demand, competition and other factors. We are required to make subjective assessments as to whether there are impairments in the value of our real estate assets and other investments. If it is determined that an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment charge is equal to the excess of the asset's carrying value over its estimated fair value. Such a determination would have a direct impact on our earnings because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to earnings. There can be no assurance that we will not take additional charges in the future related to the impairment of our assets. Any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the charge is taken. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we took impairment charges on The Boulevard Mall and The Steeplegate Mall as the aggregate carrying value of each asset was higher than the fair value of such asset. See Note 2 to our consolidated and combined financial statements for additional information regarding the impairment.National, regional and local economic conditions may adversely affect our business. Our real property investments are influenced by the national, regional and local economy, which may be negatively impacted by plant closings, industry slowdowns, increased unemployment, lack of availability of consumer credit, increased levels of consumer debt, declining consumer sentiment, poor housing market conditions, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters and other factors. Similarly, local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, retail space or retail goods, and the supply and creditworthiness of current and prospective tenants may affect the ability of our properties to generate significant revenue.Some of our properties are subject to potential natural or other disasters. A number of our properties are located in areas which are subject to natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes and oil spills. For example, certain of our properties are located in California or in other areas with higher risk of earthquakes. Furthermore, some of our properties are located in coastal regions, and would therefore be affected by any future rises in sea levels.Possible terrorist activity or other acts of violence could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Future terrorist attacks in the United States or other acts of violence may result in declining economic activity, which could harm the demand for goods and services offered by our tenants and the value of our properties and might adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. Such a decrease in retail demand could make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. Terrorist activities or violence also could directly affect the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss, and the availability of insurance for such acts, or of insurance generally, might be lower or cost more, which could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that our tenants are affected by future attacks, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to meet obligations under their existing leases. These acts might erode business and consumer confidence and spending and might result in increased volatility in national and international financial markets and economies. Any one of these events might decrease demand for real estate, decrease or delay the occupancy of our properties, and limit our access to capital or increase our cost of raising capital.We could incur significant costs related to government regulation and litigation over environmental matters and various other federal, state and local regulatory requirements.17Table of Contents Under various federal, state or local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property and may be held liable to third parties for bodily injury or property damage (investigation and/or clean-up costs) incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or otherwise caused the release of the hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances or other regulated materials may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not such facility is owned or operated by such person. The costs of remediation or removal of such substances may be substantial and the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination discovered at our properties may adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or borrow with respect to the real estate. The operations of current and former tenants at our properties have involved, or may have involved, the use of hazardous materials or generated hazardous wastes. The release of such hazardous materials and wastes could result in our incurring liabilities to remediate any resulting contamination if the responsible party is unable or unwilling to do so. In addition, our properties may be exposed to the risk of contamination originating from other sources. While a property owner generally is not responsible for remediating contamination that has migrated onsite from an offsite source, the contaminant's presence can have adverse effects on operations and redevelopment of our properties. Environmental laws also may create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs to address such contamination. Moreover, if contamination is discovered on our properties, environmental laws may impose restrictions on the manner in which that property may be used or how businesses may be operated on that property. Our properties have been subjected to varying degrees of environmental assessment at various times; however, the identification of new areas of contamination, a change in the extent or known scope of contamination or changes in cleanup requirements could result in significant costs to us. Our properties are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental, health and safety regulatory requirements that address a wide variety of issues, including, but not limited to, storage tanks, storm water and wastewater discharges, potable wells, lead-based paint and waste management. We could incur substantial costs to comply with these environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and could be subject to significant fines and penalties for non-compliance with applicable laws. For example, certain federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations require abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of demolition or certain renovations or remodeling, the cost of which may be substantial for certain redevelopments. These regulations also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air, which may necessitate implementation of site specific maintenance practices. Certain laws also impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with asbestos-containing materials. Asbestos-containing building materials are present at some of our properties and may be present at others. To minimize the risk of onsite asbestos being improperly disturbed, we have developed and implemented asbestos operations and maintenance programs to manage asbestos-containing materials and suspected asbestos-containing materials in accordance with applicable legal requirements. As of December 31, 2013, we have recorded in our financial statements a liability of $4.7 million related to potential environmental remediation at our properties which are not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We have not been notified by any governmental authority, and are not otherwise aware, of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances in connection with any of our properties. Therefore, we have not recorded any liability related to hazardous or toxic substances. Nevertheless, it is possible that the environmental assessments available to us do not reveal all potential environmental liabilities. It is also possible that subsequent investigations will identify material contamination, that adverse environmental conditions have arisen subsequent to the performance of the environmental assessments, or that there are material environmental liabilities of which management is unaware. Moreover, no assurances can be given that (i) future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability or (ii) the current environmental condition of our properties has not been or will not be affected by tenants and occupants of the properties, by the condition of properties in the vicinity of our properties or by third parties unrelated to us. We also may incur costs to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and similar laws, which require that all public accommodations meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with such laws has not had a material adverse effect on our operating results or competitive position in the past, but could have such an effect in the future.Some potential losses are not insured, which may adversely affect our profitability. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, terrorism, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are adequate and appropriate in light of the size and scope of our portfolio and business operations. There are, however, some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, which generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a 18Table of Contentsportion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. If this happens, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property.Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. While substantially all of our tenant leases contain provisions designed to partially mitigate the negative impact of inflation (such as overage rent and escalation clauses), they may not adequately do so.A rise in interest rates may increase our overall interest rate expense. A rise in interest rates could have an immediate adverse impact on us due to our outstanding variable-rate debt. This risk can be managed or mitigated by utilizing interest rate protection products that generally allow us to replace variable-rate debt with fixed-rate debt. However, in an increasing interest rate environment the fixed rates we can obtain with such interest rate protection products will also continue to increase. In addition, in the event of a rise in interest rates, we may be unable to replace maturing debt with new debt at equal or better interest rates.We may not be able to maintain our status as a REIT, which would deny us certain favorable tax treatment. We elected to be treated as a REIT beginning with the filing of our federal income tax return for 2011. Subject to our ability to meet the requirements of a REIT, we intend to maintain this status in future periods. We believe that, commencing with the 2011 taxable year, we were organized and have operated so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, once an entity is qualified as a REIT, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code") generally requires that such entity pay tax on or distribute 100% of its capital gains and distribute at least 90% of its ordinary taxable income to stockholders. To avoid current entity level U.S. federal income taxes, we expect to distribute 100% of our capital gains and ordinary income to stockholders annually. If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we would not be allowed to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and federal income tax. If any of our REIT subsidiaries fail to qualify as a REIT, such failure could result in our loss of REIT status. If we lose our REIT status, corporate level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, would apply to our taxable income at regular corporate rates. As a result, the amount available for distribution to holders of equity securities that would otherwise receive dividends would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. In addition, unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years.An ownership limit, certain anti-takeover defenses and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended (our "charter"), and our amended and restated bylaws (our "bylaws") contain the following limitations: The ownership limit. Generally, for us to qualify as a REIT under the Code for a taxable year, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer "individuals" at any time during the last half of such taxable year. Our charter provides that no person may own more than 9.9% of the number or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding shares of capital stock unless our board of directors provides a waiver from the ownership restrictions. The Code defines "individuals" for purposes of the requirement described above to include some types of entities. However, our charter also permits us to exempt a person from the ownership limit upon the satisfaction of certain conditions described therein. We have exempted Brookfield Asset Management Inc. and its affiliates ("Brookfield") and certain others from the ownership limit, subject to certain conditions. Selected provisions of our charter. Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors:•to cause us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock;•to classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred stock; and•to set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified stock that we issue. Our charter also prohibits our stockholders from acting by written consent. Selected provisions of our bylaws.19Table of Contents Our bylaws contain the following limitations:•restrictions on the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting without 20% or more of the voting power of the issued and outstanding shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; and•rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings. Selected provisions of Delaware law. We are a Delaware corporation, and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law applies to us. In general, Section 203 prevents an "interested stockholder" (as defined below) from engaging in a "business combination" (as defined in the statute) with us for three years following the date that person becomes an interested stockholder unless one or more of the following occurs:•before that person became an interested stockholder, our board of directors approved the transaction in which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder or approved the business combination;•upon completion of the transaction that resulted in the interested stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) stock held by directors who are also officers of our company and by employee stock plans that do not provide employees with the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or•following the transaction in which that person became an interested stockholder, the business combination is approved by our board of directors and authorized at a meeting of stockholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock not owned by the interested stockholder. The statute defines an "interested stockholder" as any person that is the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or is our affiliate or associate and was the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock at any time within the three-year period immediately before the date of determination. In accordance with Section 203, we approved the transactions in which Brookfield and certain of its controlled affiliate acquired shares of our common stock. In addition, Brookfield has a significant ownership of our common stock. This ownership of our common stock may impede a change in control transaction. See "—Risks Related to our Common Stock Generally—Our substantial stockholder may exert influence over us that may be adverse to our best interests and those of our other stockholders. Each item discussed above may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company, even if a proposed transaction is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock. Further, these provisions may apply in instances where some stockholders consider a transaction beneficial to them. As a result, our stock price may be negatively affected by these provisions.The agreements related to the spin-off of Rouse that we have entered into with GGP involve conflicts of interest. Because the spin-off involved the separation of certain of GGP's existing businesses into two independent companies, we entered into certain agreements with GGP to provide a framework for our relationship with GGP following the spin-off. The terms of the spin-off agreed to in the separation agreement between GGP and us were determined by persons who were at the time employees, officers or directors of GGP or its subsidiaries and, accordingly, had a conflict of interest.We are subject to various reporting and other requirements under federal securities laws which may cause us to incur significant expense. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act and are required to prepare our financial statements according to the rules and regulations required by the SEC. In addition, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner or to otherwise comply with applicable law could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we, among other things, establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and disclosure purposes. Establishing and monitoring these 20Table of Contentscontrols could result in significant costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities.Compliance with changing regulations of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to continue to invest reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities, which could harm our business prospects.Our historical combined financial information is not representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical combined financial information prior to our spin-off from GGP does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a stand-alone company during the periods presented or those we will achieve in the future.Risks Related to our Common Stock GenerallyThe market price and trading volume of our common stock could be volatile and the market price of our common stock could decline. The stock markets, including the NYSE, which is the exchange on which our common stock is listed, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Overall weakness in the economy and other factors have recently contributed to extreme volatility of the equity markets generally, including the market price of our common stock. As a result, the market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our stock price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include:•our actual or projected operating results, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, or changes in business strategy or prospects; •actual or perceived conflicts of interest with our directors, officers or other executives; •equity issuances by us, or share resales by our stockholders, or the perception that such issuances or resales may occur; •actual or anticipated accounting problems; •publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; •changes in market valuations of similar companies; •adverse market reaction to the level of leverage we employ; •additions to or departures of our key personnel; •speculation in the press or investment community; •our failure to meet, or the lowering of, our earnings estimates or those of any securities analysts; •increases in market interest rates, which may lead investors to demand a higher dividend yield for our common stock and would result in increased interest expenses on our debt; •failure to maintain our REIT qualification; •price and volume fluctuations in the stock market generally; and 21Table of Contents•general market and economic conditions, including the current state of the credit and capital markets.In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources.Future issuances of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock upon our liquidation, and future issuances of equity securities, which would dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of paying dividends, periodically or upon liquidation, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may issue debt or additional equity securities or incur other borrowings. Upon our liquidation, holders of our debt securities and other loans and shares of preferred stock will receive a distribution of our available assets before common stockholders. If we incur additional debt in the future, our future interest costs could increase, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and prospects. We are not required to offer any additional equity securities to existing common stockholders on a preemptive basis. Therefore, additional common stock issuances, directly or through convertible or exchangeable securities, warrants or options, will dilute the holdings of our existing common stockholders and such issuances or the perception of such issuances may reduce the market price of our common stock. Our shares of preferred stock, if issued, would likely have a preference on distribution payments, periodically or upon liquidation, which could eliminate or otherwise limit our ability to pay dividends to common stockholders. Because our decision to issue debt or additional equity securities or incur other borrowings in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, nature or success of our future capital raising efforts. Thus, common stockholders bear the risk that our future issuances of debt or equity securities or our incurrence of other borrowings will negatively affect the market price of our common stock. The number of shares of common stock available for future issuance or sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.As of February 28, 2014, approximately 57.7 million shares of our common stock were outstanding, and we have the authority to issue up to 500 million shares. Subject to applicable law, our board of directors has the authority, without further stockholder approval, to issue additional shares of our common stock on the terms and for the consideration it deems appropriate. Additionally, the resale by existing holders of a substantial number of our outstanding shares of common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of January 13, 2014, Brookfield beneficially owned approximately 36.6% of our common stock (based on their publicly reported holdings). Pursuant to a registration rights agreement we previously entered into with Brookfield, Brookfield has requested that we effect a registration under applicable federal and state securities laws for shares of our common stock held by Brookfield. We expect to complete the registration process in mid-March 2014. Other than a lock-up agreement that Brookfield entered into in conjunction with the underwritten public offering of our common stock in January 2014, which lock-up agreement is scheduled to expire in mid-March 2014, Brookfield is not subject to any lock-up agreements or any other contractual agreements not to dispose of shares they own of Rouse. Any disposition by Brookfield, or any substantial stockholder, of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such dispositions could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. The sale of substantial amounts of our common stock, whether directly by us or in the secondary market, the perception that such sales could occur or the availability for future sale of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock could, in turn, materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities.Our substantial stockholder may exert influence over us that may be adverse to our best interests and those of our other stockholders. As of January 13, 2014, Brookfield beneficially owned approximately 36.6% of our common stock (based on their publicly reported holdings). The concentration of ownership of our outstanding common stock held by our substantial stockholder may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of Brookfield. The interests of Brookfield could conflict with or differ from the interests of our other stockholders. For example, Brookfield’s concentration of ownership could allow Brookfield to influence our policies and strategies and could delay, defer or prevent a change of control or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination that may otherwise be favorable to us and our other stockholders. Brookfield may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Brookfield has agreed that it will not, in connection with a merger, combination, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or other similar business combination transaction involving us, convert, sell, exchange, transfer or convey any shares of 22Table of Contentscommon stock that are owned, directly or indirectly, by it on terms that are more favorable than those available to all other holders of common stock. This restriction does not, however, limit Brookfield’s ability to sell its shares of common stock to a third party at a higher price in circumstances other than the foregoing transactions. Brookfield, however, is subject to the lock-up agreement referenced above under "—The number of shares of common stock available for future issuance or sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock", which lock-up agreement expires in mid-March 2014. Effective November 1, 2013, we ceased to be a “controlled company,” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards, because Brookfield no longer controlled a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock.We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and no assurance can be given that we will be able to pay dividends to our stockholders in the future at current levels or at all. We are generally required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income each year for us to qualify as a REIT under the Code, which requirement we currently intend to satisfy through quarterly dividends of all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income in such year, subject to certain adjustments. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level, and our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors contained in this Annual Report. Although we have paid, and anticipate continuing to pay, quarterly dividends to our stockholders, our board of directors has the sole discretion to determine the timing, form and amount of any future dividends to our stockholders, and such determination will depend on our earnings, financial condition, debt covenants, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. As a result, no assurance can be given that we will be able to continue to pay dividends to our stockholders in the future or that the level of any future dividends we do make to our stockholders will achieve a market yield or increase or even be maintained over time, any of which could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, dividends that we pay to our stockholders are generally taxable to our stockholders as ordinary income. However, a portion of our dividends may be designated by us as long-term capital gains to the extent that they are attributable to capital gain income recognized by us or may constitute a return of capital to the extent that they exceed our earnings and profits as determined for tax purposes. A return of capital is not taxable, but has the effect of reducing the basis of a stockholder’s investment in our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.