Item 1A. Risk Factors" for a further description of the laws and regulations that affect us.A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase.Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (the "NGA") exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC"). We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish whether a pipeline performs a gathering function and therefore is exempt from the FERC's jurisdiction under the NGA. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is a fact-based determination. The classification of facilities as unregulated gathering is the subject of ongoing litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress, which could cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional facilities to FERC annual reporting and daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of "greenhouse gases" could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas we produce.Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as "greenhouse gases", including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. In response to such studies, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs. One bill approved by the House of Representatives in June 2009, known as the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, would have required an 80% reduction in emissions of GHGs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to 37reduce emissions of GHGs, through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs or other mechanisms. Most cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances corresponding with their annual emissions of GHGs. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. As the number of GHG emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. Some states have enacted renewable portfolio standards, which require utilities to purchase a certain percentage of their energy from renewable fuel sources.In addition, in December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment, because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In response to its endangerment finding, the EPA recently adopted two sets of rules regarding possible future regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act. The motor vehicle rule, which became effective in January 2011, purports to limit emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles. The EPA adopted the stationary source rule (or the "tailoring rule") in May 2010, and it became effective in January 2011. The tailoring rule established new GHG emissions thresholds that determine when stationary sources must obtain permits under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration ("PSD") and Title V programs of the Clean Air Act. On June 23, 2014, in Utility Air Regulatory Group v. EPA ("UARG v. EPA"), the Supreme Court held that stationary sources could not become subject to PSD or Title V permitting solely by reason of their GHG emissions. The Court ruled, however, that the EPA may require installation of best available control technology for GHG emissions at sources otherwise subject to the PSD and Title V programs. On December 19, 2014, the EPA issued two memoranda providing initial guidance on GHG permitting requirements in response to the Court's decision in UARG v. EPA. In its preliminary guidance, the EPA indicates it will undertake a rulemaking action no later than December 31, 2015 to rescind any PSD permits issued under the portions of the tailoring rule that were vacated by the Court. In the interim, the EPA issued a narrowly crafted "no action assurance" indicating it will exercise its enforcement discretion not to pursue enforcement of the terms and conditions relating to GHGs in an EPA-issued PSD permit, and for related terms and conditions in a Title V permit. In September 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the U.S., including natural gas liquids fractionators and local natural gas/distribution companies, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. In November 2010, the EPA published a final rule expanding the GHG reporting rule to include onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. This rule requires reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities on an annual basis, with reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. In addition, the EPA has continued to adopt GHG regulations of other industries, such as a September 2013 proposed GHG rule that, if finalized, would set NSPS for new coal-fired and natural-gas fired power plants. In December 2014, the EPA published a proposed rule to amend the GHG Reporting Program to add reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from gathering and boosting systems, completions and workovers of oil wells using hydraulic fracturing, and blowdowns of natural gas transmission pipelines. The rule is underwent an extended public comment period which closed on February 24, 2015.The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory requirements. Any GHG emissions legislation or regulatory programs applicable to power plants or refineries could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Derivatives reform legislation and related regulations could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business.The July 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") provides for federal oversight of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market and mandates that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC") adopt rules or regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act and providing definitions of terms used in the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes margin requirements and requires clearing and trade execution practices for certain market participants and may result in certain market participants needing to curtail or cease their derivatives activities.Although some of the rules necessary to implement the Dodd-Frank Act remain to be adopted, the CFTC has issued many rules to implement the Dodd-Frank Act, including a rule, which we refer to as the "Mandatory Clearing Rule," requiring clearing of hedges, or swaps, that are subject to it (currently, only certain interest rate and credit default swaps, which we do not presently have), establishing an "end-user" exception to the Mandatory Clearing Rule, which we refer to as the "End-User Exception," and a rule, subsequently vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia and remanded to the CFTC for further proceedings, imposing position limits. The CFTC proposed a new version of this rule, which we refer to as the "Re-Proposed 38Position Limit Rule," with respect to which the comment period has closed but a final rule has not been issued. In addition, the CFTC and bank regulators re-proposed rules, which we refer to as the "Re-Proposed SD/MSP Margin Rules," which, if adopted, would require that swap dealers and major swap participants receive initial and variation margin on uncleared swaps with financial end-users with material swaps exposures, swap dealers and major swap participants. We qualify for and will utilize the End-User Exception to the Mandatory Clearing Rule if it is expanded to cover swaps in which we participate, our hedging and other activities are such that we will not be required to post margin under the Re-Proposed SD/MSP Margin Rules, if adopted, and the quantities under the swaps in which we participate are well within applicable limits under the Re-Proposed Position Limit Rule, so we do not expect to be directly affected by any of such rules. However, most if not all of our hedge counterparties will be subject to mandatory clearing in connection with their hedging activities with parties who do not qualify for the End-User Exception and, if the Re-Proposed SD/MSP Margin Rules are adopted, will be subject to such rule and required to post margin in accordance with such rule in connection with their swaps with other swap dealers and major swap participants. The Dodd-Frank Act, the rules which have been adopted and not vacated, and, to the extent that the Re-Proposed Position Limit Rule and the Re-Proposed SD/MSP Margin Rules are ultimately effected, such proposed rules could significantly increase the cost of our derivative contracts (including through our being required to post collateral), materially alter the terms of our derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to us that we have historically used to protect against risks that we encounter in our business, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity contracts related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations.Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce our cash flow available for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example, as of February 25, 2015 we have $900.0 million of elected commitment on our Senior Secured Credit Facility, subject to compliance with financial covenants. The impact of a 1.0% increase in interest rates on an assumed borrowing of the full $900.0 million elected commitment on our Senior Secured Credit Facility would result in increased annual interest expense of $9.0 million and a decrease in our net income before income taxes. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in our cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results.Our producing properties are in a concentrated geographic area, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area. Our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Permian Basin. At December 31, 2014, substantially all of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, water shortages or other drought-related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil or natural gas. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate.Oil and natural gas operations in our operating areas can be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife. This limits our ability to operate in those areas and can later intensify competition during certain months for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. In addition, the Permian Basin has recently experienced severe winter weather and, as a consequence, our operating results during similar periods may ultimately be adversely affected. The inability of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us may materially adversely affect our financial results.In addition to credit risk related to receivables from commodity derivative contracts, our principal exposure to credit 39risk is through net joint operations receivables ($33.8 million as of December 31, 2014) and the sale of our oil and natural gas production ($57.1 million in receivables as of December 31, 2014), which we market to energy marketing companies, refineries and affiliates. Joint interest receivables arise from billing entities who own partial interest in the wells we operate. These entities participate in our wells primarily based on their ownership in leases on which we wish to drill. We are generally unable to control which co-owners participate in our wells. We are also subject to credit risk due to the concentration of our oil and natural gas receivables with several significant customers. The largest purchaser of our oil and natural gas accounted for 36.0% of our total oil and natural gas revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014. See Note 9 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The inability or failure of our significant customers or joint working interest owners to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may materially adversely affect our financial results. Current economic circumstances may further increase these risks. Locations that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities.Locations that we decide to drill that do not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In this Annual Report, we describe some of our current drilling locations and our plans to explore those drilling locations. Our drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from those that are ready to drill to those that will require substantial additional seismic data processing and interpretation before a decision can be made to proceed with the drilling of such locations. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular drilling location will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored locations or producing fields will result in successfully locating oil or natural gas in commercial quantities on our prospective acreage.Our use of 2D and 3D seismic and other data, including our Earth Model, is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations.Even when properly used and interpreted, 2D and 3D seismic data and other data, such as that incorporated into our Earth Model that provide either visualization techniques and/or statistical analyses are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable geoscientists to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures or the amount of hydrocarbons. We employ 3D seismic technology with respect to certain of our projects. The implementation and practical use of 3D seismic technology is relatively unproven, which can lessen its effectiveness, at least in the near term, and increase our costs. In addition, the use of 3D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur greater drilling and exploration expenses as a result of such expenditures, which may result in a reduction in our returns. As a result, our drilling activities may not be successful or economical, and our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities in a particular area could decline.The Earth Model is reliant upon data that is subject to interpretation and is itself the product of interpretation. Therefore, there is no guarantee that the data it produces or our interpretation of that data will be correct. The Earth Model is a new process and there is no guarantee that the initial rates of correlation will be duplicated.We often gather 3D seismic data over large areas. Our interpretation of seismic data delineates those portions of an area that we believe are desirable for drilling. Therefore, we may choose not to acquire option or lease rights prior to acquiring seismic data, and in many cases, we may identify hydrocarbon indicators before seeking option or lease rights in the location. If we are not able to lease those locations on acceptable terms, we will have made substantial expenditures to acquire and analyze 3D data without having an opportunity to attempt to benefit from those expenditures. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services as well as fees for the cancellation of such services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.The demand for and availability of qualified and experienced personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. From time to time, there have been shortages of drilling and workover rigs, pipe and other equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. In particular, in recent years the high level of drilling activity in the Permian Basin has resulted in equipment shortages in those areas. We have committed, and we may in the future commit, to drilling contracts with various third parties that contain penalties for early terminations. These penalties could negatively impact our financial statements upon contract termination. As a result of our reduced 2015 capital expenditure budget compared to 2014, we have begun releasing 40drilling rigs as their contracts came close to expiration and incurred related expenses of $0.5 million. Rig shortages as well as rig related fees could result in delays or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel.Our ability to acquire additional locations and to find and develop reserves in the future may depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry, especially in our focus areas. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory locations and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and locations than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, other companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.Technological advancements and trends in our industry affect the demand for certain types of equipment.Technological advancements and trends in our industry affect the demand for certain types of equipment. Especially in times when commodity prices are high, the demand for drilling rigs that are able to drill horizontally in the Permian Basin increases. In addition, oil and gas exploration and production companies have increased the use of "pad drilling" in recent years whereby a series of horizontal wells are drilled in succession by walking or skidding a drilling rig at a single-site location. If we are unable to secure such rigs in a timely or cost-efficient manner it could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect operations.We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel, including Randy Foutch, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals.A significant reduction by Warburg Pincus of its ownership interest in us could adversely affect us.Warburg Pincus is our largest stockholder and two members of our board of directors are affiliates of Warburg Pincus. As of December 31, 2014, Warburg Pincus owned 40.3% of our outstanding common stock. We believe that Warburg Pincus' substantial ownership interest in us provides them with an economic incentive to assist us to be successful. However, Warburg Pincus is not obligated to maintain its ownership interest in us and may elect at any time to change its ownership position in our stock. If Warburg Pincus sells all or a substantial portion of its ownership interest in us, Warburg Pincus may have less incentive to assist in our success and its affiliates that are members of our board of directors may resign. Such actions could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategies which could adversely affect our cash flows or results of operations.We have limited control over activities on properties we do not operate, which could reduce our production and revenues.A portion of our business activities is conducted through joint operating agreements under which we own partial interests in oil and natural gas properties. If we do not operate the properties in which we own an interest, we do not have control over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of the underlying properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations or an operator's breach of the applicable agreements could materially reduce our production and revenues. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others, therefore, depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator's timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells and use of technology. Because we do not have a majority interest in most wells that we do not operate, we may not be in a position to remove the operator in the event of poor performance.We are involved as a passive minority-interest partner in joint ventures and are subject to risks associated with joint venture partnerships.We are involved as a passive minority-interest partner in joint venture relationships and may initiate future joint venture projects. Entering into a joint venture as a passive minority-interest partner involves certain risks which include: the need to contribute funds to the joint venture to support its operating and capital needs; the inability to exercise voting control 41over the joint venture; economic or business interests which are not aligned with our venture partners, including the holding period and timing of ultimate sale of the ventures' underlying assets; and the inability for the venture partner to fulfill its commitments and obligations due to financial or other difficulties.We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions of properties.The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including:•recoverable reserves;•future oil and natural gas prices and their applicable differentials;•operating costs; and•potential environmental and other liabilities.The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. Our assessment will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an "as is" basis. Even in those circumstances in which we have contractual indemnification rights for pre-closing liabilities, it remains possible that the seller will not be able to fulfill its contractual obligations. Problems with properties we acquire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We have incurred losses from operations for various periods since our inception and may do so in the future.We incurred net losses from our inception to December 31, 2006 of $1.8 million and for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009 of $6.1 million, $192.0 million and $184.5 million, respectively. Our financial statements include deferred tax assets, which require management's judgment when evaluating whether they will be realized. Our development of and participation in an increasingly larger number of locations has required and will continue to require substantial capital expenditures. The uncertainty and factors described throughout this section may impede our ability to economically find, develop, exploit and acquire oil and natural gas reserves and realize our deferred tax assets. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from operating activities in the future. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical accounting policies and estimates."We require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future funding will be available to us under our Senior Secured Credit Facility, equity offerings or other actions in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness at or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.We may incur significant additional amounts of debt.As of February 25, 2015, we had total long-term indebtedness of $1.9 billion. In addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, in the future. The restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness contained in the indentures governing our Senior Unsecured Notes and in our Senior Secured Credit Facility are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our existing debt levels, the related risks that we face would increase and may make it more difficult to satisfy our existing financial obligations. In addition, the restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness contained in the indentures governing the Senior Unsecured Notes apply only to debt that constitutes indebtedness under the indentures.42Our debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit our flexibility in operating our business.Our Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing our Senior Unsecured Notes each contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things:•incur additional indebtedness;•pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments;•make certain investments;•sell certain assets;•create liens;•consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and•enter into certain transactions with our affiliates.As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we may conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or our capital needs. In addition, the covenants in our Senior Secured Credit Facility require us to maintain a minimum working capital ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio and also limit our capital expenditures. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions and, in the case of our Senior Secured Credit Facility, permit the lenders to cease making loans to us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our Senior Secured Credit Facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our Senior Secured Credit Facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Such actions by those lenders could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness, including the Senior Unsecured Notes. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our Senior Secured Credit Facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our Senior Secured Credit Facility. If the lenders under our Senior Secured Credit Facility accelerate the repayment of the borrowings thereunder, the proceeds from the sale or foreclosure upon such assets will first be used to repay debt under our Senior Secured Credit Facility, and we may not have sufficient assets to repay our unsecured indebtedness thereafter.We may incur more taxes and certain of our projects may become uneconomic if certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development are eliminated as a result of future legislation. Legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted, eliminate certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any of the foregoing changes will actually be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development. Any such change could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by increasing the costs we incur which would in turn make it uneconomic to drill some locations if commodity prices are not sufficiently high, resulting in lower revenues and decreases in production and reserves.If we were to experience an ownership change, we could be limited in our ability to use net operating losses arising prior to the ownership change to offset future taxable income.As of December 31, 2014, we had a net operating loss ("NOL") carryforward for federal income tax purposes of approximately $1.0 billion. If we were to experience an "ownership change," as determined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our ability to offset taxable income arising after the ownership change with NOLs arising prior to the ownership change would be limited, possibly substantially. An ownership change would establish an annual limitation on the amount of our pre-change NOLs we could utilize to offset our taxable income in any future taxable year to an amount generally equal to the value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate. In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative increase in our ownership of more than 50 percentage points by one or more "5% shareholders" (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code) at any time during a rolling three-year period.43Loss of our information and computer systems could adversely affect our business.We are heavily dependent on our information systems and computer based programs, including our well operations information, seismic data, electronic data processing and accounting data. If any of such programs or systems were to fail or create erroneous information in our hardware or software network infrastructure or we were subject to cyberspace breaches or attacks, possible consequences include our loss of communication links, inability to find, produce, process and sell oil and natural gas and inability to automatically process commercial transactions or engage in similar automated or computerized business activities. Any such consequence could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber-security threats, and other disruptions.As an oil and natural gas producer, we face various security threats, including cyber-security threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable, threats to the safety of our employees, threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or third-party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines, and threats from terrorist acts. Cyber-security attacks in particular are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and protect against these threats and to mitigate our exposure to such threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient in preventing security threats from materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Risks relating to our common stockThe concentration of our capital stock ownership among our largest stockholder will limit your ability to influence corporate matters.As of December 31, 2014, Warburg Pincus owned 40.3% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, Warburg Pincus has significant influence over all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership limits the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters.Furthermore, conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us, on the one hand, and Warburg Pincus and its affiliates, including its portfolio companies, on the other hand, concerning among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities. Warburg Pincus LLC is a private equity firm that has invested in, among other things, companies in the energy industry. As a result, Warburg Pincus' existing and future portfolio companies which it controls may compete with us for investment or business opportunities. These conflicts of interest may not be resolved in our favor.We have also renounced our interest in certain business opportunities. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, we renounce any interest or expectancy in any business opportunity, transaction or other matter in which Warburg Pincus or any private fund that it manages or advises, any of their respective officers, directors, partners and employees, and any portfolio company in which such persons or entities have an equity interest (other than us and our subsidiaries) (each, a "specified party") participates or desires or seeks to participate and that involves any aspect of the energy business or industry, even if the opportunity is one that we might reasonably have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue if granted the opportunity to do so, and no such specified party shall be liable to us for breach of any fiduciary or other duty, as a director or officer or controlling stockholder or otherwise, by reason of the fact that such specified party pursues or acquires any such business opportunity, directs any such business opportunity to another person or fails to present any such business opportunity, or information regarding any such business opportunity, to us. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we do not renounce any interest or expectancy in any business opportunity, transaction or other matter that is offered in writing solely to (i) one of our directors or officers who is not also a specified party or (ii) a specified party who is one of our directors, officers or employees and is offered such business opportunity solely in his or her capacity as our director, officer or employee. By renouncing our interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that from time to time may be presented to Warburg Pincus and its affiliates, our business and prospects could be adversely affected if attractive business opportunities are procured by such parties for their own benefit rather than for ours.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware state law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may adversely affect the market price of our capital stock.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to the rights of the 44holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could adversely affect the voting power or economic value of our shares.In addition, some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including:•limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings;•a separate vote of 75% of the voting power of the outstanding shares of capital stock in order for stockholders to amend the bylaws in certain circumstances; •our board of directors is divided into three classes with each class serving staggered three-year terms;•stockholders do not have the right to take any action by written consent; and•advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders.Delaware law prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any "interested stockholder," meaning generally that a stockholder who owns 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date such stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as the approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Warburg Pincus, however, is not subject to this restriction.The availability of shares for sale in the future could reduce the market price of our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock. In the future, we may issue securities to raise cash for acquisitions, to pay down debt, to fund capital expenditures or general corporate expenses, in connection with the exercise of stock options or to satisfy our obligations under our incentive plans. We may also acquire interests in other companies by using a combination of cash and our common stock or just our common stock. We may also issue securities convertible into, exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, our common stock. Any of these events may dilute your ownership interest in our Company, reduce our earnings per share and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Because we have no plans to pay, and are currently restricted from paying dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. Covenants contained in our Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing our Senior Unsecured Notes restrict the payment of dividends. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. 45Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.