D Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We commenced operations in August 2008 and have a limited operating history. We have experienced rapid growth in our business since our inception. As of December 31, 2012, we had attracted 26.8 million registered members and over 4.9 million cumulative customers, and had promoted and sold products for over 5,800 domestic and international brands. Our total net revenues increased from US$32.6 million in 2010 to US$227.1 million in 2011 and to US$692.1 million in 2012. However, our historical growth rate may not be indicative of our future performance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve similar results or grow at the same rate as we did in the past. It is also difficult to evaluate our prospects, as we may not have sufficient experience in addressing the risks to which companies operating in new and rapidly evolving markets such as the online discount retail market, may be exposed. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties fast-growing companies with a limited operating history may encounter. If we are unable to manage our rapid growth or execute our strategies effectively, our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We have experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion that has demanded, and will continue to demand, significant financial and managerial resources. We plan to further increase our sales through enhancing our brand recognition, growing our customer base and increasing customer spending on our website. We intend to continue investing in our logistics network and warehousing capacity to support our long-term growth. To further improve our nationwide fulfillment capabilities, we plan to add more logistics centers and warehouses in strategic locations in China. However, we do not have experience in operating our own logistics centers. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to execute our expansion plan as expected. In addition, our expansion also requires us to continue to effectively manage our relationships with brand partners and with third-party delivery companies to ensure efficient and timely delivery of our products. To continue our business growth, we will also need to allocate significant managerial and financial resources in retaining, training, managing and motivating our workforce. We also seek to broaden our product offerings, which will require us to introduce new product categories and work with different groups of brand partners to address the needs of different kinds of consumers. We have limited or no experience in some of our newer product offerings, such as online sales of leisure travel packages and other lifestyle products, and our expansion into these new product categories may not achieve broad customer acceptance. These offerings may present new and difficult technology or operational challenges, and we may be subject to claims if customers of these offerings experience service disruptions or failure or other quality issues. In addition, our profitability, if any, in our newer product categories may be lower than in our older categories, which may adversely affect our overall profitability and results of operations. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will be able to recoup our investments in introducing these new product categories. All of these endeavors involve risks. We can provide no assurance that we will successfully execute these expansion plans and strategies. We may fail to acquire financial or managerial resources needed for our business growth in a timely and cost-efficient manner, or at all. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our growth effectively, and any failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. 5 Table of Contents If we are unable to offer branded products at attractive prices to meet customer needs and preferences, we may lose customers and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our future growth depends on our ability to continue to attract new customers as well as to increase the spending and repeat purchase rate of existing customers. Constantly changing consumer preferences have historically affected, and will continue to affect, the online retail industry. Consequently, we must stay abreast of emerging lifestyle and consumer preferences and anticipate product trends that will appeal to existing and potential customers. As we implement our strategy to offer a personalized web-interface focusing on deep curation and targeted offerings desired by our customers, we expect to face additional challenges in the selection of products and services. Our ability to offer individually-tailored merchandise is dependent on our IT systems, including our business intelligence system, to collect and provide accurate and reliable information on consumer interests. In addition, most of our customers are urban and educated consumers who choose to purchase branded products on our website due to the deep price discounts that we offer. If our customers cannot find desired products within our product portfolio at attractive prices, they may lose interest in our website and thus may visit our website less frequently or even stop visiting our website altogether, which in turn, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to maintain our customer experience or provide high quality customer service. The success of our business largely depends on our ability to provide superior customer experience and high quality customer service, which in turn depends on a variety of factors, such as our ability to continue to provide a reliable and user-friendly website interface for our customers to browse and purchase our products, reliable and timely delivery of our products, and superior after sales services. Our sales may decrease if our website services are severely interrupted or otherwise fail to meet our customer requests. Should we or our third-party delivery companies fail to provide our product delivery and return services in a convenient or reliable manner, or if our customers are not satisfied with our product quality, our reputation and customer loyalty could be negatively affected. In addition, we also depend on our call center and online customer service representatives to provide live assistance to our customers. If our call center or online customer service representatives fail to satisfy the individual needs of customers, our reputation and customer loyalty could be negatively affected and we may lose potential or existing customers and experience a decrease in sales. As a result, if we are unable to continue to maintain our customer experience and provide high quality customer service, we may not be able to retain existing customers or attract new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any harm to our vipshop.com brand or failure to maintain our reputation may materially and adversely affect our business and growth prospects. We believe that the recognition and reputation of our vipshop.com brand among our customers and brand partners have significantly contributed to the growth of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the recognition and reputation of our brand are critical to our business and competitiveness. Many factors, some of which are beyond our control, are important to maintaining and enhancing our brand and may negatively impact our brand and reputation if not properly managed. These factors include our ability to: · provide satisfactory user experience as consumer preferences evolve and as we expand into new product categories; · increase brand awareness among existing and potential customers through various marketing and promotional activities; · maintain the popularity, attractiveness and quality of the products we offer; · maintain the efficiency, reliability and quality of our fulfillment services; and · preserve our reputation and goodwill in the event of any negative media publicity on internet security or product quality or authenticity issues affecting us or other online retail businesses in China. A public perception that non-authentic or counterfeit goods are sold on our website, even if factually incorrect, could damage our reputation, reduce our ability to attract new customers or retain our current customers, and diminish the value of our brand. If we are unable to maintain our reputation, enhance our brand recognition or increase positive awareness of our website, products and services, it may be difficult to maintain and grow our customer base, and our business and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our relationships with, or otherwise fail to procure products at favorable terms from, our existing brand partners, or if we fail to attract new brand partners, our business and growth prospects may suffer. We source our products from both domestic and international brand partners. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, we worked with 411, 1,075 and 2,759 brand partners, respectively. We depend significantly on our ability to source products from brand partners at favorable pricing terms, typically at a substantial discount to the original sales price. However, our agreements do not ensure the long-term availability of merchandise or the continuation of particular pricing practices. Our contracts with our brand suppliers typically do not restrict the brand partners from selling products to other buyers. We cannot assure you that our current brand partners will continue to sell products to us on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. In the event that we are not able to purchase merchandise at favorable pricing terms, our revenues, profit margin and earnings may be materially and adversely affected. Our brand partners primarily include brand owners, and to a lesser extent, brand distributors and resellers. In the event any brand distributor or reseller does not have authority from the relevant brand owner to sell certain products to us, such brand distributor or reseller may cease selling such products to us at any time, which may adversely affect our business and revenues. In addition, if our brand partners cease to provide us with favorable payment terms or return policies, our requirements for working capital may increase, resulting in a negative effect on our cash flows from operating activities, and our operations may be materially and adversely affected. We will also need to establish new brand partner relationships to ensure that we have access to a steady supply of products on favorable commercial terms. Furthermore, our relationships with some brand partners, particularly international brand partners of apparel products in China, may be adversely affected as a result of our sale of branded products that are directly procured from overseas markets. If we are unable to develop and maintain good relationships with brand partners that would allow us to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of quality merchandise on acceptable commercial terms, it may inhibit our ability to offer sufficient products sought by our customers, or to offer these products at prices acceptable to them. Any negative developments in our relationships with brand partners could materially and adversely affect our business and growth prospects. In addition, as part of our growth strategy, we plan to further expand our brand and product offerings. If we fail to attract new brand partners to sell their branded products to us due to any reason, our business and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We primarily use third-party delivery companies to deliver our products, and if they fail to provide reliable delivery services, our business and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. We primarily deliver products through third-party delivery companies and are relying more on regional and local couriers which have a smaller scale of operations than nation-wide delivery companies. Currently, we maintain long-term cooperation arrangements with a number of third-party delivery companies to deliver our products to our customers. Interruptions to or failures in these third parties’ delivery services could prevent the timely or proper delivery of our products. These interruptions may be due to events that are beyond our control or the control of these delivery companies, such as inclement weather, natural disasters, transportation interruptions or labor unrest or shortage. If our third-party delivery companies fail to comply with applicable rules and regulations in China, our delivery services may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to find alternative delivery companies to provide delivery services in a timely and reliable manner, or at all. As competition intensifies in the future, we expect that we will be required to ensure faster delivery times, which could place increasing pressure on our delivery network. Delivery of our products could also be affected or interrupted by the merger, acquisition, insolvency or government shut-down of the couriers we engage to make deliveries, especially those local couriers with relatively small business scales. We began to establish our own in-house delivery capabilities in Shanghai in 2011, and we may face additional challenges in managing our relationship with third-party delivery companies as a result of establishing our in-house delivery operations. If our products are not delivered in proper condition or on a timely basis, our business and reputation could suffer. Although we typically require the delivery companies, especially the local couriers, to make cash deposits or guarantee payments securing their due performance of duties as part of our engagement with them, such security may not be sufficient to recover the losses that we sustain as a result of their failure to perform. 7 Table of Contents If we do not compete effectively against existing or new competitors, we may lose market share and customers. The online discount retail market is rapidly evolving and competitive. Our primary competitors include major B2C e-commerce companies in China that sell a broad range of products and services online, such as Tmall, 360Buy and Dangdang, and other online discount retail companies in China. We compete with others based on a number of factors, including: · ability to identify products in demand among consumers and source these products on favorable terms from brand suppliers; · pricing; · breadth and quality of product offerings; · website features; · customer service and fulfillment capabilities; and · reputation among consumers and brands. Some of our current and potential competitors may have significantly greater resources, longer operating histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition. As the online discount retail market in China is expected to grow rapidly, many new competitors and some existing B2C e-commerce companies may enter into this market. In addition, other online retailers may be acquired by, receive investment from or enter into strategic relationships with, well-established and well-financed companies or investors which would help enhance their competitive positions. Some of our competitors may be able to secure more favorable terms from brand partners, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing or inventory policies and devote substantially more resources to their website and systems development than us. In addition, new and enhanced technologies may increase the competition in the online retail industry. Increased competition may negatively affect our business development, online retail and brand recognition, which may in turn affect our market share and operating margins. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against our competitors, and competitive pressure may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We have a history of net losses and may continue to incur net losses in the future. Before 2011, we had also experienced negative cash flow from operating activities. We have incurred net losses since our inception in August 2008. Our net losses amounted to US$8.4 million, US$107.3 million and US$9.5 million in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, we had accumulated losses of US$176.0 million. In addition, net cash used in our operating activities amounted to US$6.6 million in 2010, before we generated net cash from operating activities of US$1.3 million and US$111.6 million in 2011 and 2012, respectively. Although we achieved net profit for the first time in the fourth quarter of 2012, we cannot assure you that we can continue to generate net profits or maintain positive cash flow from operating activities in the future. Our ability to be profitable depends on our ability to grow our business and increase our net revenues and our ability to control our costs and operating expenses. Although we have experienced significant revenue growth since our inception, such growth may not be sustainable and we may continue to incur net losses in future periods or fail to maintain positive cash flow from operating activities. We have incurred in the past and expect to continue to incur in future periods share-based compensation expenses and we expect our costs and other operating expenses to continue to increase as we expand our business, either of which will reduce our net income and may result in future losses. If our costs and operating expenses continue to increase without a commensurate increase in our revenue, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively affected, and we may need additional capital to fund our continued operations. We may suffer losses if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory. Due to the nature of the flash sales business, we need to manage a large volume of inventory turnover. We depend on our forecasts of demand and popularity for various kinds of products to make decisions regarding product purchases. Our customers may not order products at levels expected by us. In addition, any unfavorable market or industry conditions or change in consumer trends and preferences may limit our ability to accurately forecast the inventory levels to meet customer demand. We generally have the right to return unsold items for most of our products to our brand partners. In order to secure more favorable commercial terms, we may need to continue to enter into supply arrangements without unconditional return clauses or with more restrictive return policies. 8 Table of Contents We recorded US$2.6 million, US$1.7 million and US$12.2 million in inventory write-downs in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Such write-downs primarily reflected the estimated market value of damaged or obsolete inventory. In addition, in October 2010, when we were in the process of implementing our new IT systems, improving our inventory count procedures and relocating our warehouse, some of our inventory stock items were not properly recorded in the inventory ledger, resulting in discrepancies between the inventory ledger and our actual inventory stock. We recorded write-downs of such discrepancies. If we fail to manage our inventory effectively in the future, we may be subject to a heightened risk of inventory obsolescence, a decline in inventory values and write-downs, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to sell products or if we are required to lower sale prices in order to reduce inventory level or to pay higher prices to our brand partners in order to secure the right to return products to our brand partners, our profit margins might be negatively affected. High inventory levels may also require us to commit substantial capital resources, preventing us from using that capital for other important purposes. If we do not accurately predict product demand, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we are subject to higher product return rates, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Purchases of apparel, fashion accessories and other items over the internet may be subject to higher return rates than merchandise sold at physical stores. We have established a seven-day product return policy in order to accommodate our customers and to overcome any hesitance that they may have in shopping on our website. Our product return rates increased from 2010 to 2011 but decreased from 2011 to 2012. If we are unable to continue to reduce our product return rates, or if our product return rates increase or are higher than expected, our revenues and costs can be negatively impacted. In addition, as we cannot return some products to our brand partners pursuant to our contracts with them, if return rates for such products increase significantly, we may experience an increase in our inventory balance, inventory impairment and fulfillment cost, which may materially and adversely affect our working capital. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We rely on online retail of apparel products for a significant portion of our net revenues. Historically, online retail sales of apparel products accounted for a significant portion of our total net revenues. We expect that sales of these products will continue to grow and represent a significant portion of our total net revenues in the near future. We have increased our offerings to include other product categories, including fashion items, cosmetics and home goods, as well as leisure travel packages and other lifestyle products, and expect to continue to expand our product offerings to gradually diversify our revenue sources in the future. However, the sales of these new products and services may not increase to a level that would reduce our dependence on our current line of products and services. Any failure in maintaining or increasing the number of our online retail customers or our sales volumes could result in our inability to retain or capture a sufficient share of the new markets that we are targeting. Any event that results in a reduction in our sales of apparel products could materially and adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our current level of revenue, our profitability and business prospects. We plan to expand our logistics network. If we are not able to manage such expansion successfully, our growth potential, results of operations and business could be materially and adversely affected. Our logistics network, currently consisting of regional logistics centers located in Guangdong Province in Southern China, Jiangsu Province in Eastern China, Sichuan Province in Western China and Beijing in Northern China, is essential to our business growth. We intend to use a portion of the proceeds from the follow-on public offering that we completed in March 2013 to expand our logistics network to accommodate increasing volumes of customer orders, enhance customer services, provide better coverage across China, invest in IT system and mobile channel, and other general purposes. As part of our expansion plan, we expect to add more logistics centers in the future. In 2011, we started to provide our own delivery service in Shanghai and may expand our in-house delivery service coverage to other areas. However, we do not have experience in operating our own logistics centers and delivery operations. As a result, we cannot assure you that our plans to operate our own logistics centers and delivery operations will be successful. The expansion of our logistics network will put pressure on our managerial, financial, operational and other resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to locate suitable facilities on commercially acceptable terms in accordance with our expansion plan. Nor can we assure you that we will be able to recruit qualified managerial and operational personnel to support our expansion plan. If we are unable to secure new facilities for the expansion of our logistics operations, or to effectively control expansion-related expenses, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Uncertainties regarding the growth and sustained profitability of the online retail market in China, in particular, the development of the online flash sales business model, could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. All of our net revenue is generated through an online retail business model, and in particular, an online flash sales business model. While online retail businesses have existed in China since the 1990s, only recently have a limited number of these companies become profitable. The flash sales business model originated in Europe in 2001 and then spread to the U.S. The business model was not introduced to China until recently. The long term viability and prospects of the online retail industry, particularly companies utilizing an online flash sales business model, and B2C e-commerce business generally in China, remain untested and subject to significant uncertainty. Our business, financial condition and results of operations will depend on numerous factors affecting the development of the online flash sales business and, more broadly, the online retail and e-commerce businesses in China, which may be beyond our control. These factors include the general economic conditions in China, the growth of internet usage, the confidence in and level of e-commerce and online spending, the emergence of alternative retail channels or business models, the success of marketing and brand building efforts by e-commerce and flash sales companies, and the development of payment, logistics, after-sale and other services associated with e-commerce and flash sales. The proper functioning of our IT systems is essential to our business. Any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, security and integrity of our website and systems will materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Our IT systems mainly include technology infrastructure supporting our vipshop.com user-interface website, as well as our customer service, enterprise resource planning, warehouse and logistics management, product information management, business intelligence and administration management systems. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our IT systems are critical to our success, our ability to attract and retain customers and our ability to maintain a satisfactory customer experience and level of customer service. Our servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, user traffic boom that exceeds the capacity of our servers, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to system interruptions, website slowdown or unavailability, delays in transaction processing, loss of data or the inability to accept and fulfill customer orders. We can provide no assurance that we will not experience such unexpected interruptions. We can provide no assurance that our current security mechanisms will be sufficient to protect our IT systems from any third-party intrusions, viruses or hacker attacks, information or data theft or other similar activities. Any such future occurrences could damage our reputation and result in a material decrease in our revenue. We have experienced one instance of system failure in January 2013 caused by unexpectedly large user traffic during a discount campaign, which was subsequently resolved. Additionally, we expect to use a portion of the proceeds of the follow-on public offering that we completed in March 2013 to continue to upgrade and improve our IT systems to support our business growth. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing these system upgrade and improvement strategies. In particular, our systems may experience interruptions during upgrades, and the new technologies or infrastructures may not be fully integrated with the existing systems on a timely basis, or at all. If our existing or future IT systems do not function properly, it could cause system disruptions and slow response times, affecting data transmission, which in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to successfully adopt new technologies or adapt our website and systems to changing customer requirements or emerging industry standards, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our website. The online retail industry is characterized by rapid technological evolution, changes in end user requirements and preferences, frequent introductions of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing proprietary technologies and systems obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to identify, develop, acquire or license leading technologies useful in our business, enhance our existing services, develop new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our existing and prospective customers, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of website and other proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to use new technologies effectively or adapt our website, proprietary technologies and transaction-processing systems to meet customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unable to accurately project the need for such system expansion or upgrade or to adapt our systems in a cost-effective and timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, whether for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Our wide variety of accepted payment methods subjects us to third-party payment processing-related risks. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash on delivery, bank transfers, online payments with credit cards and debit cards issued by major banks in China, and payment through third-party online payment platforms, such as alipay.com and tenpay.com. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins. We may also be subject to fraud and other illegal activities in connection with the various payment methods we offer, including online payment and cash on delivery options. We also rely on third parties to provide payment processing services. For example, we use third-party delivery companies for our cash on delivery payment options. If these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us, or if their services quality deteriorates, our business could be disrupted. We are also subject to various rules, regulations and requirements, regulatory or otherwise, governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The security of operations of, and fees charged by, third-party online payment platforms may have material and adverse effects on our business. Currently, we accept payments through third-party online payment platforms, such as alipay.com and tenpay.com. In 2012, 38.0% of our total net revenues were collected through online payment systems. We expect that an increasing amount of our sales will be conducted over the internet as a result of the growing use of online payment systems. In all these online payment transactions, secured transmission of confidential information such as customers’ credit card numbers and personal information over public networks is essential to maintain consumer confidence. We do not have control over the security measures of our third party online payment vendors, and security breaches of the online payment systems that we use could expose us to litigation and possible liability for failing to secure confidential customer information and could, among other things, damage our reputation and the perceived security of all of the online payment systems that we use. If a well-publicized internet or mobile network security breach were to occur, users concerned about the security of their online financial transactions may become reluctant to purchase on our website even if the publicized breach did not involve payment systems or methods used by us. In addition, there may be billing software errors that would damage customer confidence in these online payment systems. If any of the above were to occur and damage our reputation or the perceived security of the online payment systems we use, we may lose customers and customers may be discouraged from purchasing on our website, which may have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, there are currently only a limited number of third party online payment systems in China, such as alipay.com and tenpay.com. If any of these major payment systems decides to significantly increase the percentage fee they charge us for using their payment systems, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our growth and profitability depend on the level of consumer confidence and spending in China. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to changes in overall economic and political conditions that affect consumer spending in China. The retail industry, including the online retail sector in general and the flash sales business in particular, is highly sensitive to general economic changes. Online purchases tend to decline significantly during recessionary periods and substantially all of our net revenue is derived from online retail sales in China. Many factors outside of our control, including inflation and deflation, interest rates, volatility of equity and debt securities markets, taxation rates, employment and other governmental policies can adversely affect consumer confidence and spending. The domestic and international political environments, including military conflicts and political turmoil or social instability, may also adversely affect consumer confidence and reduce spending, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We may incur liability for counterfeit or unauthorized products sold or information posted on our website. We have been and may continue to be subject to allegations that some of the items sold on our website are counterfeited or without authorization from the relevant brand owner. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, we worked with 411, 1,075 and 2,759 brand partners, respectively. We can provide no assurance that measures we have adopted in the course of sourcing such products to ensure their authenticity or authorization and to minimize potential liability of infringing third parties’ rights will be effective. Any inadvertent sales of counterfeit, non-authentic or unauthorized items, or public perception of such incidents, could harm our reputation, impair our ability to attract and retain customers and cause us to incur additional costs to respond to any incident of this nature. In the event that counterfeit products, unauthorized products or products, images, logos or any other information on our website that otherwise infringes third parties’ rights are sold or posted on our website, we could also face infringement claims. We have occasionally received claim letters alleging our infringement of third-party rights. Although we have not suffered any material adverse impact due to these claims, we cannot assure you that in the future, we will not be required to allocate significant resources and incur material expenses regarding such claims. We could be required to pay substantial damages or to refrain from the sale of relevant products in the event that a claimant prevails in any proceedings against us. Forms of potential liabilities under PRC law if we negligently participated or assisted in infringement activities associated with counterfeit goods include injunctions to cease infringing activities, rectification, compensation and administrative penalties. Moreover, our reputation could be negatively affected due to the negative publicity of any infringement claim against us. Any third-party claims may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to protect confidential information of our customers and our network against security breaches could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. A significant challenge to e-commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Currently, all product orders and, in some cases, payments for products we offer, are made through our website and systems. In such transactions, maintaining security for the transmission of confidential or private information on our website and systems, such as customers’ personal information, payment related information and transaction information, is essential to maintain consumer confidence in our website and systems. We have adopted rigorous security policies and measures, including encryption technology, to protect our proprietary data and customer information. However, advances in technology, the expertise of hackers, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology that we use to protect confidential information. We may not be able to prevent third parties, especially hackers or other individuals or entities engaging in similar activities, from illegally obtaining such confidential or private information we hold as a result of our customers’ visits on our website. Such individuals or entities obtaining our customers’ confidential or private information may further engage in various other illegal activities using such information. In addition, we have limited control or influence over the security policies or measures adopted by third-party providers of online payment services through which some of our customers may elect to make payment for purchases at our website. Furthermore, our third-party delivery companies may also violate their confidentiality obligations and disclose or use information about our customers illegally. Although we do not believe that we will be held responsible for any such illegal activities, any negative publicity on our website’s safety or privacy protection mechanism and policy could have a material adverse effect on our public image and reputation. We cannot assure you that similar events out of our control will not occur in the future, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation. In addition, the methods used by hackers and others engaged in illegal online activities are increasingly sophisticated and constantly evolving. Significant capital, managerial and other resources may be required to ensure and enhance information security or to address the issues caused by such security failure. Any perception by the public that e-commerce and transactions, or the privacy of user information, are becoming increasingly unsafe or vulnerable to attack could inhibit the growth of online retail and other online services generally, which may also in turn reduce the number of orders we receive and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could harm our business and competitive position. We regard our trademarks, service marks, domain names, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and other intellectual property as critical to our business. We rely on a combination of intellectual property laws and contractual arrangements, including confidentiality agreements and license agreements with our employees, brand partners and others, to protect our proprietary rights. As of December 31, 2012, we own 12 registered trademarks, copyrights to 17 software products developed by us relating to various aspects of our operations, and 34 registered domain names, including vipshop.com, vipshop.com.cn, vipshop.cn and vipshop.net. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Intellectual Property.” It is often difficult to register, maintain and enforce intellectual property rights in China. Statutory laws and regulations are subject to judicial interpretation and enforcement and may not be applied consistently due to the lack of clear guidance on statutory interpretation. Confidentiality agreements and license agreements may be breached by counterparties, and there may not be adequate remedies available to us for any such breach. Accordingly, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights or to enforce our contractual rights in China. Policing any unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly and the steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property. In the event that we resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managerial and financial resources. We can provide no assurance that we will prevail in such litigation. In addition, our trade secrets may be leaked or otherwise become available to, or be independently discovered by, our competitors. Any failure in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future strategic alliances or acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may pursue selected strategic alliances and potential strategic acquisitions that are complementary to our business and operations, including opportunities that can help us promote our brand to new customers and brands, expand our product offerings and improve our technology infrastructure. We may also pursue strategic initiatives with brands and platforms in international markets. Strategic alliances with third parties could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information, non-performance or default by counterparties, and increased expenses in establishing these new alliances, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business. We may have little ability to control or monitor the actions of our partners. To the extent a strategic partner suffers any negative publicity as a result of its business operations, our reputation may be negatively affected by virtue of our association with such party. In addition, although we have no current acquisition plans, we may consider entering into strategic acquisition of other companies, businesses, assets or technologies that are complementary to our business and operations as part of our growth strategy. Strategic acquisitions and subsequent integrations of newly acquired businesses would require significant managerial and financial resources and could result in a diversion of resources from our existing business, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our growth and business operations. The costs of identifying and consummating acquisitions may be significant. We may also incur significant expenses in obtaining approvals from shareholders and relevant government authorities in China and elsewhere in the world. Our failure to consummate acquisitions could also require us to pay certain pre-negotiated fees and expenses. Acquired businesses or assets may not generate expected financial results and may incur losses. In addition, acquisitions could also require the use of substantial amounts of cash, issuances of equity or debt securities, incurrence of significant goodwill and related impairment charges, amortization expenses for intangible assets and exposure to potential unknown liabilities of the acquired businesses or assets. The cost and duration of integrating newly acquired businesses could also materially exceed our expectations. Any such negative developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any interruption in the operation of our logistics centers or data centers for an extended period may have an adverse impact on our business. Our ability to process and fulfill orders accurately and provide high quality customer service depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our four regional logistics centers and our self-owned servers located in data centers operated by major PRC internet datacenter providers. Our regional logistics centers and data centers may be vulnerable to damage caused by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquake, human error and other events. We have developed a disaster tolerant system which includes real-time data mirroring, daily off-line data back-up and redundancy and load balancing. However, we do not carry business interruption insurance. The occurrence of any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We may be subject to product liability claims if people or properties are harmed by the products we sell. We sell products manufactured by third parties, some of which may be defectively designed or manufactured. As a result, sales of such products could expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury or property damage and may require product recalls or other actions. Third parties subject to such injury or damage may bring claims or legal proceedings against us as the retailer of the product. We do not currently maintain any third-party liability insurance or product liability insurance in relation to products we sell. As a result, any material product liability claim or litigation could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and managerial efforts in defending them and could have a negative impact on our reputation. We have limited insurance coverage which could expose us to significant costs and business disruption. Risks associated with our business and operations include, but are not limited to, damage to properties due to fire, explosions and other accidents, business interruption due to power shortages or network failure, product liability claims, transportation damages, losses of key personnel and risks posed by natural disasters including storms, floods and earthquakes, any of which may result in significant costs or business disruption. We have maintained insurance coverage we consider necessary and sufficient for our business, and customary for the industry in which we operate, including all risk property insurance covering our equipment, facilities, inventories and other properties. However, as the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, insurance companies in China currently offer limited business-related insurance products. We do not maintain business interruption insurance or general third-party liability insurance, nor do we maintain key-man life insurance. We cannot assure you that our insurance coverage is sufficient to prevent us from any loss to be sustained or that we will be able to successfully claim our losses under our current insurance policy on a timely basis, or at all. If we incur any loss that is not covered by our insurance policies, or the compensated amount is significantly less than our actual loss, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends on the continuing efforts of our management. If we lose their services, our business may be severely disrupted. Our business operations depend on the continuing efforts of our management, particularly the executive officers named in this annual report. If one or more of our management were unable or unwilling to continue their employment with us, we might not be able to replace them in a timely manner, or at all. We may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain qualified replacements. Our business may be severely disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our management may join a competitor or form a competing company. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully enforce our contractual rights included in the employment agreements we have entered into with our management team, in particular in China, where all these individuals reside. As a result, our business may be negatively affected due to the loss of one or more members of our management. If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We intend to hire and retain additional qualified employees to support our business operations and planned expansion. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, particularly management, technical, marketing and other operational personnel with expertise in the online retail industry. Our experienced mid-level managers are instrumental in implementing our business strategies, executing our business plans and supporting our business operations and growth. Since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain qualified staff or other highly skilled employees that we will need to achieve our strategic objectives. In addition, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may also be limited and may not meet the demand for our business growth on a timely fashion, or at all. If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Failure to renew our current leases or locate desirable alternatives for our facilities could materially and adversely affect our business. We lease various properties for offices, logistics centers, data centers and customer service centers. We may not be able to successfully extend or renew such leases and may therefore be forced to relocate our affected operations. This could disrupt our operations and result in significant relocation expenses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we compete with other businesses for premises at certain locations or of desirable sizes. As a result, even though we could extend or renew our leases, rental payments may significantly increase as a result of the high demand for the leased properties. In addition, we may not be able to locate desirable alternative sites for our facilities as our business continues to grow and such failure in relocating our affected operations could affect our business and operations. Our use of leased properties could be challenged by third parties, which may cause interruptions to our business operations. Some of our lessors do not have proper ownership certificates for the properties we lease, or have other restrictions on their ownership of the properties. In particular, our office in Guangzhou is located on land allocated by local government, and the lessor has not obtained the relevant governmental approvals for leasing these premises. Some of our leased properties were mortgaged by the owners to third parties before we entered into lease agreements with them, and if such owners fail to perform their obligations secured by such properties and the mortgage is enforced by the third parties, we may be unable to continue to lease such properties and may be forced to relocate. In addition, most of our leasehold interests in leased properties have not been registered with relevant PRC government authorities as required by the PRC law. According to PRC laws, rules and regulations, the failure to register the lease agreement will not affect its effectiveness between the tenant and the landlord, however, the landlord and the tenant may be subject to administrative fines of up to RMB10,000 each for such failure to register the lease. As of the date of this annual report, we are not aware of any claims or actions being contemplated or initiated by government authorities or any third parties with respect to our leasehold interests in or use of such properties. However, we cannot assure you that our use of such leased properties will not be challenged by the governmental authorities or third parties alleging ownership of such properties. In the event that our use of properties is successfully challenged, we may be forced to relocate the affected operations. We can provide no assurance that will be able to find suitable replacement sites on terms acceptable to us on a timely basis, or at all, or that we will not be subject to material liability resulting from third parties’ challenges on our use of such properties. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls or fail to remediate the control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that has been identified, we may be unable to accurately report our results of operations or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Prior to our initial public offering in March 2012, we were a private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. During the audits of our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, and for the period from August 22 to December 31, 2008 and the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 in connection with the initial public offering of our ADSs in March 2012, we identified one “material weakness” in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board of the United States, or PCAOB, and other control deficiencies. The material weakness identified related to the lack of comprehensive U.S. GAAP accounting policies, financial reporting and internal control procedures. In particular, we did not have a comprehensive accounting policies manual and financial reporting and closing procedure manual for our finance department, and we did not have sufficient personnel to build and maintain formalized accounting policies and financial policies and financial reporting procedures in accordance with U.S. GAAP. See also “Item 5.A. Operating and Finacial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.” During 2012, we identified one “significant deficiency” in our internal control over financial reporting as defined in the standards established by PCAOB, and other control deficiencies. The significant deficiency relates to the deficient calculation mechanism of our e-Wallet system. We plan to implement a number of measures to address these control deficiencies that have been identified. See “Item 5.A. Operating and Finacial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.” However, we cannot assure you that these and other remedial measures will remediate these control deficiencies. 15 Table of Contents We are now subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as a public company in the United States. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, requires that we include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 20-F beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2013. In addition, once we cease to be an “emerging growth company” as such term is defined in the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm, after conducting its own independent testing, may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our internal controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. As a public company, our reporting obligations may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as these standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we fail to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, we could suffer material misstatements in our financial statements and fail to meet our reporting obligations, which would likely cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This could in turn limit our access to capital markets, harm our results of operations, and lead to a decline in the trading price of our ADSs. Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could expose us to increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and subject us to potential delisting from the stock exchange on which we list, regulatory investigations and civil or criminal sanctions. As an “emerging growth company,” we will not be required to have auditor attestation of the effectiveness of our internal controls. We are an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, most significantly, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 for so long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be for as long as five years following our initial public offering in March 2012. As a result of our current status as an emerging growth company, our investors may not have access to certain information that they may deem important. The JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company need not comply with any new or revised financial accounting standard until such date that a non-reporting company is required to comply with such new or revised accounting standard. However, we have elected to “opt out” of this provision and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards as required when they are adopted for public companies. This decision to opt out of the extended transition period under the JOBS Act is irrevocable. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to obtain financing, may be adversely affected by the downturn in the global or Chinese economy. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and it is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011 and the slowdown of the Chinese economy in 2012. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Our business and operations are primarily based in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our financial results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by the economy and online retail industry in China. Although the economy in China has grown significantly in the past decades, any severe or prolonged slowdown in the global and/or Chinese economy could reduce our customers’ expenditures for our products, which in turn may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The growth rate of China’s GDP decreased in 2012, and it is uncertain whether this economic slowdown will continue into 2013 and beyond. The online retail industry is particularly sensitive to economic downturns, and the macroeconomic environment in China may affect our business and prospects. A prolonged slowdown in China’s economy may lead to a reduced level of online purchasing activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, a slowdown in the global or China’s economy or the recurrence of any financial disruptions may have a material and adverse impact on financings available to us. The weakness in the economy could erode investors’ confidence, which constitutes the basis of the credit markets. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China. There have also been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in volatility in oil and other markets, and over the possibility of a war involving Iran. There have also been concerns about the economic effect of the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in Japan and tensions in the relationship between China and Japan. The recent financial turmoil affecting the financial markets and banking system may significantly restrict our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets or from financial institutions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any prolonged slowdown in the global or Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. 16 Table of Contents Our results of operations are subject to quarterly fluctuations due to a number of factors that could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our ADSs. We experience seasonality in our business, reflecting a combination of seasonal fluctuations in internet usage and traditional retail seasonality patterns. For example, we generally experience less user traffic and purchase orders during national holidays in China, particularly during the Chinese New Year holiday season in the first quarter of each year. Furthermore, sales in the traditional retail industry are significantly higher in the fourth quarter of each calendar year than in the preceding three quarters. Due to the foregoing factors, our financial condition and results of operations for future quarters may continue to fluctuate and our historical quarterly results may not be comparable to future quarters. As a result, the trading price of our ADSs may fluctuate from time to time due to seasonality. Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure and Restrictions on Our Industry Substantial uncertainties and restrictions exist with respect to the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations relating to online commerce and the distribution of internet content in China. If the PRC government finds that the structure we have adopted for our business operations does not comply with PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties, including the shutting down of our website. Foreign ownership of internet-based businesses is subject to significant restrictions under current PRC laws and regulations. The PRC government regulates internet access, the distribution of online information and the conduct of online commerce through strict business licensing requirements and other government regulations. These laws and regulations also include limitations on foreign ownership in PRC companies that provide internet content distribution services. Specifically, foreign investors are not allowed to own more than 50% of the equity interests in any entity conducting an internet content distribution business. The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT, issued the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in and Operation of Value-added Telecommunications Business, or the MIIT Circular, in July 2006. The MIIT Circular reiterated the regulations on foreign investment in telecommunications businesses, which require foreign investors to set up foreign invested enterprises and obtain business operating licenses for internet content provision, or ICP, to conduct any value-added telecommunications business in China. Under the MIIT Circular, a domestic company that holds an ICP license is prohibited from leasing, transferring or selling the license to foreign investors in any form, and from providing any assistance, including providing resources, sites or facilities, to foreign investors that conduct value-added telecommunications business illegally in China. We are a Cayman Islands company and our PRC subsidiary, Vipshop (China) Co., Ltd., or Vipshop China, is considered a wholly foreign owned enterprise. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we conduct our operations in China through a series of contractual arrangements entered into between (a) Vipshop China, (b) Guangzhou Vipshop Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Vipshop Information, our consolidated affiliated entity, and (c) shareholders of Vipshop Information. Vipshop Information holds the licenses and permits that are essential to the operation of our business. For a detailed description of these licenses and permits, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation.” Vipshop Information is a PRC limited liability company owned by our co-founders and directors, all of whom are PRC citizens. As a result of these contractual arrangements, we exert control over Vipshop Information and consolidate its operating results in our financial statements under U.S. GAAP. For a detailed description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4.C. Information on the Company—Organizational Structure.” In the opinion of our PRC counsel, Han Kun Law Offices, our current ownership structure, the ownership structure of our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entity, each as described in this annual report, are in compliance with existing PRC laws, rules and regulations, and the contractual arrangements between Vipshop China, our consolidated affiliated entity and its shareholders, each as described in this annual report, are not in violation of any existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that PRC government authorities will not ultimately take a view contrary to or otherwise different from that of our PRC counsel. 17 Table of Contents In or around September 2011, various media sources reported that the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, had prepared a report proposing pre-approval by a competent central government authority of offshore listings by China-based companies with variable interest entity structures, such as ours, that operate in industry sectors subject to foreign investment restrictions. However, it is unclear whether CSRC officially issued or submitted such a report to a higher level government authority or what any such report provides, or whether any new PRC laws or regulations relating to variable interest entity structures will be adopted or what they would provide. If our ownership structure, contractual arrangements and businesses of our company, Vipshop China or our consolidated affiliated entity are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant governmental authorities, including CSRC, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including levying fines, confiscating our income or the income of Vipshop China or our consolidated affiliated entity, revoking the business licenses or operating licenses of Vipshop China or our consolidated affiliated entity, shutting down our servers or blocking our website, discontinuing or placing restrictions or onerous conditions on our operations, requiring us to undergo a costly and disruptive restructuring, restricting or prohibiting our use of proceeds from our inititial and follow-on public offerings to finance our business and operations in China, and taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations and severely damage our reputation, which would in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entity and its shareholders for the operation of our business, which may not be as effective as direct ownership. If our consolidated affiliated entity and its shareholders fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to resort to arbitration or litigation to enforce our rights, which may be time-consuming, unpredictable, expensive and damaging to our operations and reputation. Because of PRC restrictions on foreign ownership of internet-based businesses in China, we depend on contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entity, Vipshop Information, in which we have no ownership interest, to partly conduct our operations. These contractual arrangements, governed by PRC law, are intended to provide us with effective control over our consolidated affiliated entity and allow us to obtain economic benefits from it. Although we have been advised by our PRC counsel, Han Kun Law Offices, that these contractual arrangements are valid, binding and enforceable under current PRC laws, these contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control as direct ownership. For example, our consolidated affiliated entity and its shareholders could breach their contractual arrangements with us by, among other things, failing to operate our online retail business in an acceptable manner or taking other actions that are detrimental to our interests. If we hold controlling equity interest in our consolidated affiliated entity, we would be able to exercise our shareholder rights to effect changes to its board of directors, which in turn could implement changes at the management and operational level of the consolidated affiliated entity. However, under the current contractual arrangements, if our consolidated affiliated entity or its shareholders fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies, including arbitration and litigation, under PRC law, which may not be sufficient or effective. In particular, the contractual arrangements provide that any dispute arising from these arrangements will be submitted to the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission South China Sub-Commission for arbitration, the ruling of which will be final and binding. The legal framework and system in China, particularly those relating to arbitration proceedings, is not as developed as other jurisdictions such as the United States. As a result, significant uncertainties relating to the enforcement of legal rights through arbitration, litigation and other legal proceedings remain in China, which could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements and exert effective control over our consolidated affiliated entity. If we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, or if we suffer significant delay or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these contractual arrangements, our business and operations could be severely disrupted, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and damage our reputation, and we may not be able to consolidate the financial results of Vipshop Information into our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. See “—Risks Relating to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” 18 Table of Contents The shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entity have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. Each shareholder of our consolidated affiliated entity is a shareholder and director of our company. Equity interest held by each of these shareholders in our company is less than its interest in our consolidated affiliated entity as a result of our introduction of DCM Entities, Sequoia Entities, and public investors as shareholders of our company. In addition, such shareholders’ equity interest in our company will be further diluted as a result of any future offering of equity securities. As a result, conflicts of interest may arise as a result of such dual shareholding and governance structure. Each of these shareholders is also a director of our company, and has a duty of care and loyalty to our company and to our shareholders as a whole under Cayman Islands law. Under the contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entity and its shareholders, (a) we may replace any such individual as a shareholder of our consolidated affiliated entity at our discretion, and (b) each of these individuals has executed a power of attorney to appoint Vipshop China or its designated third party to vote on their behalf and exercise shareholder rights of our consolidated affiliated entity. However, we cannot assure you that these individuals will act in the best interests of our company should any conflicts of interest arise, or that any conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. These individuals may breach or cause our consolidated affiliated entity to breach the existing contractual arrangements. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and any of these individuals, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which may be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to our operations. There is also substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. We may lose the ability to use and enjoy assets held by our consolidated affiliated entity that are important to the operation of our business if such entity goes bankrupt or becomes subject to a dissolution or liquidation proceeding. As part of our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entity, such entity holds certain assets that are important to the operation of our business. If our consolidated affiliated entity goes bankrupt and all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our consolidated affiliated entity undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, the unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entity may result in adverse tax consequences to us. We may be subject to adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities were to determine that the contracts between Vipshop China and our consolidated affiliated entity were not entered into on an arm’s length basis and therefore constitute favorable transfer pricing arrangements. If this occurs, the PRC tax authorities could request that our consolidated affiliated entity adjust its taxable income, if any, upward for PRC tax purposes. Such a pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by increasing our consolidated affiliated entity’s tax expenses without reducing our tax expenses, which could subject our consolidated affiliated entity to late payment fees and other penalties for underpayment of taxes. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law requires every enterprise in China to submit its annual enterprise income tax return together with a report on transactions with its related parties to the relevant tax authorities. The tax authorities may impose reasonable adjustments on taxation if they have identified any related party transactions that are inconsistent with arm’s length principles. As a result, our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entity may result in adverse tax consequences to us. If our consolidated affiliated entity fails to obtain and maintain the requisite assets, licenses and approvals required under PRC law, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Foreign investment and the internet industry in China are highly regulated by the PRC government and numerous regulatory authorities of the central PRC government are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the internet industry. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation.” Our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entity are required to obtain and maintain certain assets relevant to its business as well as applicable licenses or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide its current services. These assets and licenses are essential to the operation of our business and are generally subject to annual review by the relevant governmental authorities. Furthermore, our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entity may be required to obtain additional licenses. If we fail to obtain or maintain any of the required, assets, licenses or approvals, our continued business operations in the internet industry may subject it to various penalties, such as confiscation of illegal net revenue, fines and the discontinuation or restriction of our operations. Any such disruption in the business operations of our consolidated affiliated entity will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For instance, we have recently started a pilot program to provide our own delivery service in Shanghai. We do not currently charge additional fees for such service. Under PRC law, we are required to obtain a road transportation permit and an express delivery service permit from relevant governmental authorities to provide delivery service. As of the date of this annual report, we have not obtained all the relevant permits. As a result, we may be subject to penalties, such as fines and ban on providing such service in the future. 19 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Changes in China’s economic, political or social conditions or government policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Substantially all of our assets and operations are located in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be influenced to a significant degree by political, economic and social conditions in China generally and by continued economic growth in China as a whole. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy, and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth over the past decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. In addition, in the past the Chinese government has implemented certain measures, including interest rate increases, to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China, which may adversely affect our business and operating results. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through Vipshop China, our PRC subsidiary, and Vipshop Information, our consolidated affiliated entity in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Vipshop China is a foreign invested enterprise and is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system, prior court decisions under the civil law system may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system, and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. Since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy. These uncertainties may affect our judgment on the relevance of legal requirements and our ability to enforce our contractual or tort rights. In addition, the regulatory uncertainties may be exploited through unmerited or frivolous legal actions or threats in attempts to extract payments or benefits from us. 20 Table of Contents Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules, some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all and may have retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of any of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any administrative and court proceedings in China may be protracted, resulting in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We may be adversely affected by the complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of internet-related businesses and companies. The PRC government extensively regulates the internet industry, including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in the internet industry. These internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be in violations of applicable laws and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to PRC regulation of the internet-related business include, but are not limited to, the following: · We only have contractual control over our website. We do not directly own our website through our subsidiaries due to the restriction of foreign investment in businesses providing value-added telecommunication services in China, including ICP services. This may significantly disrupt our business, subject us to sanctions, compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. · There are uncertainties relating to the regulation of the internet- related business in China, including evolving licensing practices. This means that some of our permits, licenses or operations may be subject to challenge, or we may fail to obtain permits or licenses that may be deemed necessary for our operations or we may not be able to obtain or renew certain permits or licenses. If we fail to maintain any of these required licenses or approvals, we may be subject to various penalties, including fines and discontinuation of or restriction on our operations. Any such disruption in our business operations may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. · New laws and regulations may be promulgated that will regulate internet activities, including online retail businesses. If these new laws and regulations are promulgated, additional licenses may be required for our operations. If our operations do not comply with these new regulations after they become effective, or if we fail to obtain any licenses required under these new laws and regulations, we could be subject to penalties. The interpretation and application of existing PRC laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies relating to the internet industry have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, internet businesses in China, including our business. We cannot assure you that we have obtained all the permits or licenses required for conducting our business in China or will be able to maintain our existing licenses or obtain any new licenses required under any new laws or regulations. There are also risks that we may be found to violate the existing or future laws and regulations given the uncertainty and complexity of China’s regulation of internet-related business. Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the internet in China may adversely affect our business, and we may be liable for content that is displayed on our website. China has enacted laws and regulations governing internet access and the distribution of products, services, news, information, audio-video programs and other content through the internet. The PRC government has prohibited the distribution of information through the internet that it deems to be in violation of PRC laws and regulations. If any of our internet content were deemed by the PRC government to violate any content restrictions, we would not be able to continue to display such content and could become subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of required licenses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to potential liability for any unlawful actions of our customers or users of our website or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability to us, and if we are found to be liable, we may be prevented from operating our website in China. 21 Table of Contents Our auditor is not inspected fully by PCAOB and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection and we may be adversely affected by the outcome of the administrative proceedings brought by the SEC against five accounting firms in China As an auditor of companies that are publicly traded in the United States and a firm registered with PCAOB, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu is required by the laws in the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and the professional standards of PCAOB. However, because we have substantial operations within the People’s Republic of China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese government authorities, our auditor is not currently inspected fully by PCAOB. Inspections of other auditors conducted by PCAOB outside of China have at times identified deficiencies in those auditors’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, shareholders may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections, and may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions in China and elsewhere in the world. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under this policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. Since then, Renminbi started to appreciate against U.S. dollar and reached one of its historical high point in July 2008. Thereafter, the Renminbi was traded within a narrow band against the U.S. dollar, remaining within 1% of its July 2008 high point. In June 2010, the PRC government announced that its plan to increase the flexibility of Renminbi exchange rate. Since that time, the Renminbi has gradually appreciated against the U.S. dollar, though there have been brief periods when the U.S. dollar appreciated against the Renminbi. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in greater fluctuation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. All of our net revenues and most of our expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Any significant revaluation of Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would reduce the amount of Renminbi we would receive if we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi. Conversely, a significant depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may significantly reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings, which in turn could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. Limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. We did not enter into any hedging transactions to hedge our exposure to the risks relating to fluctuations in exchange rates. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenue effectively and affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenue in Renminbi. Under our current corporate structure, our Cayman Islands holding company primarily relies on dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. Specifically, under the existing exchange restrictions, without prior approval of the SAFE, cash generated from the operations of Vipshop China in China may be used to pay dividends to our company. However, approval from or registration with appropriate government authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, we need to obtain the SAFE’s approval to use cash generated from the operations of our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entity to pay off their respective debt in a currency other than Renminbi owed to entities outside China, or to make other capital expenditure payments outside China in a currency other than Renminbi. The PRC government may at its discretion restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currencies to satisfy our foreign currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. 22 Table of Contents We principally rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by Vipshop China in China to fund our cash and financing requirements, and any limitation on the ability of Vipshop China to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity from Vipshop China in China for our cash requirements, including for the service of any debt we may incur. Our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends is based upon their distributable earnings which are mainly derived from the payments for products and services from our consolidated affiliated entity. Current PRC regulations permit our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to Vipshop HK only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our subsidiaries in China and our consolidated affiliated entity is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund a statutory reserve until such reserve reaches 50% of its registered capital. Each of such entity in China is also required to further set aside a portion of its after-tax profits to fund the employee welfare fund, although the amount to be set aside, if any, is determined at the discretion of its board of directors. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2012, we had, on a consolidated basis, accumulated losses of US$176.0 million, representing losses incurred in Vipshop China, our consolidated affiliated entity and certain subsidiaries. As a result, such entities in China are not able to distribute dividends to us until their accumulated losses have been made up. Furthermore, if Vipshop China in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to distribute dividends or other payments to Vipshop HK could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. PRC regulation of loans to and direct investments in PRC entities by offshore holding companies may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of our equity offerings to make loans or additional capital contributions to Vipshop China in China. Any funds we transfer to Vipshop China, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, are subject to approval by or registration with relevant governmental authorities in China. According to the relevant PRC regulations on foreign invested enterprises in China, capital contributions to Vipshop China are subject to the approval of the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local branches and registration with other governmental authorities in China. In addition, (a) any foreign loan procured by Vipshop China is required to be registered with the SAFE or its local branches, and (b) Vipshop China may not procure loans which exceed the difference between its registered capital and its total investment amount as approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local branches. Any medium or long term loan to be provided by us to our consolidated affiliated entity must be approved by the National Development and Reform Commission and the SAFE or its local branches. We may not obtain these government approvals or complete such registrations on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions or foreign loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such approvals or complete such registration, our ability to use the proceeds of our equity offerings and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 142. SAFE Circular 142 regulates the conversion by a foreign invested enterprise of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting the usage of converted Renminbi. SAFE Circular 142 provides that any Renminbi capital converted from registered capital in foreign currency of a foreign invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by PRC governmental authority and such Renminbi capital may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless otherwise permitted by the PRC law. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the Renminbi capital converted from registered capital in foreign currency of a foreign invested enterprise. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be changed without SAFE approval, and such Renminbi capital may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been utilized. As a result, we are required to apply Renminbi funds converted from the net proceeds we received from our public offerings of equity securities within the business scope of Vipshop China. SAFE Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from the public offerings of equity securities to Vipshop China or invest in or acquire any other companies in the PRC. Furthermore, the SAFE promulgated a circular on November 9, 2010, or SAFE Circular 59, which tightens the regulation over settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings. In particular, it is specifically required that any net proceed settled from offshore offerings shall be applied in the manner described in the offering documents. The SAFE also promulgated SAFE Circular 45 in November 2011, which, among other things, restrict a foreign-invested enterprise from using Renminbi funds converted from its registered capital to provide entrusted loans or repay loans between non-financial enterprises. Violations of these circulars could result in severe monetary or other penalties. SAFE Circular 142, SAFE Circular 59 and SAFE Circular 45 may significantly limit our ability to convert, transfer and use the net proceeds from the follow-on public offering and any offering of additional equity securities in China, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents The M&A Rules establish complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions. The Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex. Such regulation requires, among other things, that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor acquires control of a PRC domestic enterprise or a foreign company with substantial PRC operations, if certain thresholds under the Provisions on Thresholds for Prior Notification of Concentrations of Undertakings, issued by the State Council on August 3, 2008, were triggered. In addition, PRC national security review rules which became effective on September 1, 2011 require acquisitions by foreign investors of PRC companies engaged in military related or certain other industries that are crucial to national security be subject to security review before consummation of any such acquisition. We may pursue potential strategic acquisitions that are complementary to our business and operations. Complying with the requirements of these regulations to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore holding companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to liability or penalties, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. The SAFE has promulgated several regulations, including the Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Residents’ Financing and Roundtrip Investment Through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 75, effective on November 1, 2005 and its implementation rules. These regulations require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of the SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations are applicable to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may be applicable to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. Under these foreign exchange regulations, PRC residents who make, or have prior to the implementation of these foreign exchange regulations made, direct or indirect investments in offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, will be required to register such investments with the SAFE or its local branches. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an SPV, is required to update its filed registration with the local branch of the SAFE with respect to that SPV, to reflect any material change. Moreover, any subsidiary of such SPV in China is required to urge the PRC resident shareholders to update their registration with the local branch of the SAFE. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required registration or to update the previously filed registration, the subsidiary of such SPV in China may be prohibited from distributing its profits or the proceeds from any capital reduction, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV, and the SPV may also be prohibited from making additional capital contribution into its subsidiary in China. All of our shareholders that we are aware of being subject to the SAFE regulations have completed all necessary registrations with the local SAFE branch as required by Circular 75. We cannot assure you, however, that all of these individuals may continue to make required filings or updates on a timely manner, or at all. We can provide no assurance that we are or will in the future continue to be informed of identities of all PRC residents holding direct or indirect interest in our company. Any failure or inability by such individuals to comply with the SAFE regulations may subject us to fines or legal sanctions, such as restrictions on our cross-border investment activities or our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to, or obtain foreign-exchange-denominated loans from, our company or prevent us from making distributions or paying dividends. As a result, our business operations and our ability to make distributions to you could be materially and adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Furthermore, as these foreign exchange regulations are still relatively new and their interpretation and implementation has been constantly evolving, it is unclear how these regulations, and any future regulation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. For example, we may be subject to a more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the foreign exchange regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee stock incentive plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China, or the PBOC promulgated the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which set forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by individuals (both PRC or non-PRC citizens) under either the current account or the capital account. In January 2007, the SAFE issued implementing rules for the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. In February 2012, the SAFE promulgated the Notices on Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plans of Overseas Publicly-Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rules, which replaced the Application Procedures of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas Publicly-Listed Companies issued by the SAFE in March 2007. Under these rules, PRC residents who participate in stock incentive plan in an overseas publicly-listed company are required to register with the SAFE or its local branches and complete certain other procedures. Participants of a stock incentive plan who are PRC residents must retain a qualified PRC agent, which could be a PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company or another qualified institution selected by such PRC subsidiary, to conduct the SAFE registration and other procedures with respect to the stock incentive plan on behalf of its participants. Such participants must also retain an overseas entrusted institution to handle matters in connection with their exercise of stock options, the purchase and sale of corresponding stocks or interests and fund transfers. In addition, the PRC agent is required to amend the SAFE registration with respect to the stock incentive plan if there is any material change to the stock incentive plan, the PRC agent or the overseas entrusted institution or other material changes. We and our PRC resident employees who participate in the employee stock incentive plans, which we adopted in March 2011 and March 2012, respectively, have been subject to these regulations since our company became a publicly- listed company in the United States in March 2012. We will assist our PRC option grantees to complete the required registrations and procedures. If we or our PRC option grantees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC option grantees may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Stock Incentive Plans.” We face uncertainty with respect to indirect transfers of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises by their non-PRC holding companies. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or SAT Circular 698, issued by the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, on December 10, 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008, where a non-resident enterprise transfers the equity interests of a PRC resident enterprise indirectly by disposition of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that: (a) has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or (b) does not tax foreign income of its residents, the non-resident enterprise, being the transferor, shall report to the competent tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise this Indirect Transfer. Using a “substance over form” principle, the PRC tax authority may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if it lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of reducing, avoiding or deferring PRC tax. As a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC tax at a rate of up to 10%. SAT Circular 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the relevant tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the transaction. In addition, the PRC resident enterprise may be required to provide necessary assistance to support the enforcement of SAT Circular 698. 25 Table of Contents There is uncertainty as to the application of SAT Circular 698. For example, while the term “Indirect Transfer” is not clearly defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. Moreover, the relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax rates in foreign tax jurisdictions, and the process and format of the reporting of an Indirect Transfer to the competent tax authority of the relevant PRC resident enterprise remain unclear. In addition, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to determine whether a foreign investor has adopted an abusive arrangement in order to reduce, avoid or defer PRC tax. SAT Circular 698 may be determined by the tax authorities to be applicable to our non-resident shareholders who acquired our shares outside of the open market and subsequently sell our shares in our private financing transactions or in the open market if any of such transactions were determined by the tax authorities to lack reasonable commercial purpose. As a result, we and our non-resident investors may become at risk of being taxed under SAT Circular 698 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with SAT Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under SAT Circular 698, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or such non-resident shareholders’ investments in us. It is unclear whether we will be considered a PRC “resident enterprise” under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and, depending on the determination of our PRC “resident enterprise” status, our global income may be subject to the 25% PRC enterprise income tax, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and its implementation rules, which became effective in January 2008, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with a “de facto management body” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its global income. The implementation rules of the EIT Law define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc., of an enterprise.” On April 22, 2009, the SAT issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, which provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a PRC-controlled enterprise that is incorporated offshore is located in China. Further, Circular 82 states that certain PRC-controlled enterprises will be classified as “resident enterprises” if the following are located or resident in China: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision making bodies; key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of the senior management or directors having voting rights. In addition, the SAT issued a bulletin on July 27, 2011, effective September 1, 2011, providing more guidance on the implementation of Circular 82. This bulletin clarifies matters including resident status determination, post-determination administration and competent tax authorities. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation—PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and Individual Income Tax Law.” Although both Circular 82 and the bulletin only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreigners, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 and the bulletin may reflect the SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of all offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or individuals. In addition to the uncertainty regarding how the new resident enterprise classification may apply, it is also possible that the rules may change in the future, possibly with retroactive effect. Although we do not believe that our legal entities organized outside of the PRC constitute PRC resident enterprises, it is possible that the PRC tax authorities could reach a different conclusion. In such case, we may be considered a resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to the enterprise income tax at 25% on our global income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. If we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiaries, a 25% enterprise income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Dividends payable to our foreign investors and gains on the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares by our foreign investors may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the EIT Law and its implementation regulations issued by the State Council, a 10% PRC withholding tax is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are non-resident enterprises, which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC or which have such establishment or place of business but the dividends are not effectively connected with such establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or ordinary shares by such investors is also subject to PRC tax at a rate of 10%, subject to any reduction or exemption set forth in relevant tax treaties, if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are deemed a PRC resident enterprise, dividends paid on our ordinary shares or ADSs, and any gain realized from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and would as a result be subject to PRC taxation. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation—PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and Individual Income Tax Law.” Furthermore, if we are deemed a PRC resident enterprise, dividends payable to investors that are non-PRC individual investors and any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or ordinary shares by investors may be subject to PRC tax at a rate of 20%, subject to any reduction or exemption set forth in applicable tax treaties. It is unclear whether, if we are considered a PRC resident enterprise, holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares would be able to claim the benefit of income tax treaties or agreements entered into between China and other countries or areas (although we do not expect to withhold at treaty rates if any withholding is required). If dividends payable to our non-PRC investors, or gains from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs by such investors are subject to PRC tax, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents The enforcement of the Labor Contract Law and other labor-related regulations in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008 and was amended on December 28, 2012. The Labor Contract Law introduces specific provisions related to fixed-term employment contracts, part-time employment, probation, consultation with labor union and employee assemblies, employment without a written contract, dismissal of employees, severance, and collective bargaining, which together represent enhanced enforcement of labor laws and regulations. According to the Labor Contract Law, an employer is obliged to sign an unlimited-term labor contract with any employee who has worked for the employer for ten consecutive years. Further, if an employee requests or agrees to renew a fixed-term labor contract that has already been entered into twice consecutively, the resulting contract must have an unlimited term, with certain exceptions. The employer must pay severance to an employee where a labor contract is terminated or expires, with certain exceptions. In addition, the government has continued to introduce various new labor-related regulations after the effectiveness of the Labor Contract Law. Among other things, it is required that that annual leave ranging from five to 15 days be made available to employees and that the employee be compensated for any untaken annual leave days in the amount of three times of the employee’s daily salary, subject to certain exceptions. As a result of these new regulations designed to enhance labor protection and increasing labor costs in China, our labor costs are expected to increase. In addition, as the interpretation and implementation of these new regulations are still evolving, we cannot assure you that our employment practice will at all times be deemed in compliance with the new regulations. If we are subject to severe penalties or incur significant liabilities in connection with labor disputes or investigations, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our failure to make adequate contributions to various employee benefit plans as required by PRC regulations may subject us to penalties. Companies operating in China are required to participate in various government sponsored employee benefit plans, including certain social insurance, housing funds and other welfare-oriented payment obligations. We have not made adequate employee benefit payments as required under applicable PRC labor laws. Accruals for the underpaid amounts as recorded were nil, US$89 thousand, US$0.5 million, US$1.6 million and US$2.2 million as of December 31, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Our failure in making contributions to various employee benefit plans and in complying with applicable PRC labor-related laws may subject us to late payment penalties. If we are subject to such penalties in relation to the underpaid employee benefits, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. An occurrence of a widespread health epidemic or other outbreaks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of Influenza A virus subtype H1N1, or the H1N1 virus, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, avian influenza or other epidemics or outbreaks on the economic and business climate. A prolonged outbreak of any of these illnesses or other adverse public health developments in China or elsewhere in the world could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Such outbreaks could significantly impact the online retail industry and cause a temporary closure of the facilities we use for our operations. Such impact or closures would severely disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations could be disrupted if any of our employees or employees of our partners were suspected of having the H1N1 virus, SARS or avian influenza, since this could require us or our partners to quarantine some or all of such employees or disinfect the facilities used for our operations and may deter our customers or potential customers from purchasing or accepting our products. In addition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected to the extent that an outbreak harms the global or Chinese economy in general, such as wars, acts of terrorism, snowstorms, earthquakes, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power shortage or communication interruptions. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has fluctuated and may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has fluctuated since we first listed our ADSs. Since our ADSs became listed on the NYSE on March 23, 2012, the trading price of our ADSs have ranged from US$4.12 to US$32.48 per ADS, and the last reported trading price on April 9, 2013 was US$29.99 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and changes of our expected results; · announcements by us or our competitors of new services, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital investments; · additions to or departures of our senior management personnel; · detrimental negative publicity about us, our competitors or our industry; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · regulatory developments affecting us, our brand partners or our industry; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other internet, e-commerce or online retail companies in China; · fluctuations of exchange rates between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar; · release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding shares or ADSs; and · sales or perceived potential sales of additional equity securities or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of any particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Because we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, you must rely on price appreciation of our ADSs for return on your investment. We currently intend to retain most, if not all, of our available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not rely on an investment in our ADSs as a source for any future dividend income. Our board of directors has complete discretion as to whether to distribute dividends. Even if our board of directors decides to declare and pay dividends, the timing, amount and form of future dividends, if any, will depend on, among other things, our future results of operations and cash flow, our capital requirements and surplus, the amount of distributions, if any, received by us from our subsidiaries, our financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Accordingly, the return on your investment in our ADSs will likely depend entirely upon any future price appreciation of our ADSs. There is no assurance that our ADSs will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased the ADSs. You may not realize a return on your investment in our ADSs and you may even lose your entire investment in our ADSs. 28 Table of Contents Substantial future sales or perceived potential sales of our ADSs, ordinary shares or other equity securities in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs, ordinary shares or other equity securities in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of the date of this annual report, we had 110,300,505 ordinary shares outstanding, including 38,969,200 ordinary shares represented by ADSs. All ADSs representing our ordinary shares will be freely transferable by persons other than our “affiliates” without restriction or additional registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The remaining ordinary shares outstanding will be available for sale, upon the expiration of the 90-day lock-up period in connection with the follow-on public offering in March 2013 (if applicable to such holder), subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. Any or all of these shares may be released prior to the expiration of the lock-up period at the discretion of the representatives. To the extent shares are released before the expiration of the lock-up period and sold into the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. Certain holders of our ordinary shares will have the right to cause us to register under the Securities Act the sale of their shares, subject to the 90-day lock-up period in connection with the follow-on public offering in March 2013. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in ADSs representing these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the form of ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attached to ordinary shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attached to ordinary shares represented by the ADSs. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. See “Item 10.B. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association—Voting Rights.” We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will as a result not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. Although you may directly exercise your right to vote by withdrawing the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs, you may not be able to do so, on a timely basis or at all, to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings, and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register both the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause a registration statement, if filed, to be declared effective. There might not be an exemption from registration under the Securities Act available to us for our rights offering. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property to you. 29 Table of Contents You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entity. Substantially all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, and by the Companies Law (2012 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against us and our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which provides persuasive, but not binding, authority in a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, shareholders in Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in U.S. federal courts. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against us, our management, our directors or our major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Our memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our third amended and restated memorandum and articles of association contain certain provisions that could limit the ability of third parties to acquire control of our company, including a provision that grants authority to our board directors to establish from time to time one or more series of preferred shares without action by our shareholders and to determine, with respect to any series of preferred shares, the terms and rights of that series. The provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions. Our existing shareholders have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. As of March 31, 2013, our co-founders and shareholders, Mr. Eric Ya Shen and Mr. Arthur Xiaobo Hong, beneficially owned an aggregate of 28.3% of our outstanding shares, and our other pre-IPO investors beneficially owned an aggregate of 42.2% of our outstanding shares. As a result, our existing shareholders have substantial influence over our business and corporate matters, including without limitation, decisions regarding mergers and consolidations, asset disposals and director elections. They may exercise their shareholder rights in a way that they believe is in their best interest, which may conflict with the interest of our other shareholders. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. Our concentrated ownership structure may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our other shareholders of the opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and may reduce the price of our ADSs. For more information regarding our principal shareholders, see “Item 6.E. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Share Ownership.” 30 Table of Contents We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, which could subject United States investors in the ADSs or ordinary shares to significant adverse United States income tax consequences. Depending upon the value of our ADSs and ordinary shares and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a “passive foreign investment company”, or “PFIC,” for United States federal income tax purposes. Although the law in this regard is unclear, we treat Vipshop Information as being owned by us for United States federal income tax purposes, not only because we control its management decisions but also because we are entitled to substantially all of the economic benefits associated with this entity, and, as a result, we combine this entity’s operating results in our consolidated financial statements. If it were determined, however, that we are not the owner of Vipshop Information for United States federal income tax purposes, we would likely be treated as a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. Assuming that we are the owner of Vipshop Information for United States federal income tax purposes, and based upon our current income and assets and projections as to the value of our ADSs and ordinary shares as of December 31, 2012, we do not presently expect to be a PFIC for the current taxable year or the foreseeable future. While we do not expect to become a PFIC, if, among other matters, our market capitalization is less than anticipated or subsequently declines, we may be a PFIC for the current or future taxable years. The determination of whether we are or will be a PFIC will also depend, in part, on the composition of our income and assets, which will be affected by how, and how quickly, we use our liquid assets and the cash raised in the follow-on public offering that we completed in March 2013. Because there are uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and PFIC status is a factual determination made annually after the close of each taxable year, including ascertaining the fair market value of our assets on a quarterly basis and the character of each item of income we earn, we can provide no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. If we were to be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10.E. Additional Information—Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations”) would be subject to special rules generally intended to reduce or eliminate any benefits from the deferral of United States federal income tax that a U.S. Holder could derive from investing in a non-United States corporation that does not distribute all of its earnings on a current basis. Further, if we are classified as a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares. For more information see “Item 10.E. Additional Information—Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” We incurred increased costs as a result of being a public company, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional future costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. As a public company, we have incurred significant accounting, legal and other expenses that we did not incur when we were a private company, including additional costs associated with our public company reporting obligations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NYSE, requires significantly heightened corporate governance practices for public companies, including Section 404 relating to internal control over financial reporting. As a company with less than US$1.0 billion in revenues for our last fiscal year, we qualify as an “emerging growth company” pursuant to the JOBS Act. An emerging growth company may take advantage of specified reduced reporting and other requirements that are otherwise applicable generally to public companies. These provisions include exemption from the auditor attestation requirement under Section 404 in the assessment of the emerging growth company’s internal control over financial reporting. The JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company does not need to comply with any new or revised financial accounting standards until such date that a private company is otherwise required to comply with such new or revised accounting standards. However, we have elected to “opt out” of this provision and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards as required when they are adopted for public companies. This decision to opt out of the extended transition period under the JOBS Act is irrevocable. 31 Table of Contents We expect these and other rules and regulations applicable to public companies to increase our accounting, legal and financial compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. After we are no longer an “emerging growth company,” we expect to incur significant expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the requirements of Section 404 and the other rules and regulations of the SEC. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules and regulations, and we cannot predict or estimate with reasonable certainty the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. In the past, shareholders of a public company often brought securities class action suits against the company following periods of instability in the market price of that company’s securities. If we were involved in a class action suit, it could divert a significant amount of our management’s attention and other resources from our business and operations, which could harm our results of operations and require us to incur significant expenses to defend the suit. Any such class action suit, whether or not successful, could harm our reputation and restrict our ability to raise capital in the future. In addition, if a claim is successfully made against us, we may be required to pay significant damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 