ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operation, financial condition or results. 8Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our BusinessWe operate in categories with strong competition. The food and beverage industry is highly competitive. Our competitors may have substantial financial, marketing and other resources. Increased competition can reduce our sales due to loss of market share or the need to reduce prices to respond to competitive and customer pressures. In most product categories, we compete not only with widely advertised branded products, but also with private label and store brand products. A strong competitive response from one or more of our competitors to our marketplace efforts, or a shift in consumer preferences to competitors’ products, could result in us reducing pricing, increasing marketing or other expenditures or losing market share. Our profits could decrease if a reduction in prices or increased costs are not counterbalanced with increased sales volume.We must identify changing consumer preferences and develop and offer food products to meet these preferences.Consumer preferences evolve over time. The success of our food products depends on our ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences, including concerns of consumers regarding health and wellness, obesity, product attributes and ingredients, including carbohydrate content and processed ingredients. Introduction of new products and product extensions requires significant development and marketing investment. If our products fail to meet consumer preferences, or we fail to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, the return on that investment will be less than anticipated and our strategy to grow sales and profits with investments in marketing and innovation will be less successful. Similarly, demand for our products could be affected by consumer concerns or perceptions regarding the health effects of our products or certain ingredients.Our business strategy depends on us identifying and completing additional acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. We continuously evaluate and may in the future enter into additional strategic transactions. Any such transaction could happen at any time, could be material to our business and could take any number of forms, including, for example, an acquisition, investment or merger, for cash or in exchange for our equity securities.Evaluating potential transactions and integrating businesses requires additional expenditures (including legal, accounting and due diligence expenses, higher administrative costs to support the acquired entities, information technology, personnel and other integration expenses) and may divert the attention of our management from ordinary operating matters. The success of these potential transactions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies through the successful integration of the businesses we acquire with our existing businesses. Even if we are successful in integrating acquired businesses, we cannot assure that these integrations will result in the realization of the full benefit of any anticipated growth opportunities or cost synergies or that benefits will be realized within the expected time frames. In addition, acquired businesses may have unanticipated liabilities or contingencies. Our corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, including integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, and may have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. Future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, all of which could singly or collectively adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Economic downturns could limit consumer demand for our products. The willingness of consumers to purchase our products depends in part on general or local economic conditions. In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers may purchase less of our products and may forego certain purchases altogether. In those circumstances, we could experience a reduction in sales of our products. In addition, as a result of economic conditions or competitive actions, we may be unable to raise our prices sufficiently to protect profit margins. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Commodity price volatility and higher energy costs could negatively impact profits. The primary commodities used by our businesses include wheat, semolina, nuts, sugar, edible oils, corn, oats, cocoa, milk and soy based protein. The supply and price of these ingredients are subject to market conditions and are influenced by many factors beyond our control, including weather patterns affecting ingredient production, governmental programs and regulations, insects, and plant diseases. Our primary packaging includes linerboard cartons, corrugated boxes, and flexible beverage packaging. In addition, our manufacturing operations use large quantities of natural gas and electricity. The cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely and we may experience shortages in commodity items as a result of commodity market fluctuations, availability, increased demand, weather conditions and natural disasters, as well as other factors outside of our control. Higher prices for natural gas, electricity and fuel may also increase our production and delivery costs. Changes in the prices charged for our products may lag behind changes in our energy and commodity costs. Accordingly, changes in commodity or energy costs may limit our ability to maintain existing margins and have a material adverse effect on our operating profits. Competitive pressures often limit our 9Table of Contentsability to increase prices in response to higher input costs. If we fail to hedge and prices subsequently increase, or if we institute a hedge and prices subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or greater than our competitors’ costs, and our financial results could be adversely affected.Our Michael Foods segment's operating results are significantly affected by egg, potato and cheese prices and the prices of corn and soybean meal, which are the primary grains fed to laying hens. Historically, the prices of these raw materials have fluctuated widely. In addition, the Michael Foods cheese and butter products are affected by milk price supports established by the USDA. Although steps can be taken to mitigate the effects of changes in raw material costs, fluctuations in prices are outside the control of the Michael Foods business, and changes in the price of such items may have a material adverse effect on the Michael Foods business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. An inability to keep selling prices in line with input costs may result in lower operating profit margins.Impairment in the carrying value of intangible assets could negatively impact our net worth. If our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or other long-term assets become impaired, we will be required to record additional impairment charges, which may be significant. Our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets, including goodwill, trademarks, trade names and other acquired intangibles. Intangibles and goodwill expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but our management reviews them for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired. Impairments to intangible assets may be caused by factors outside our control, such as increasing competitive pricing pressures, lower than expected revenue and profit growth rates, changes in industry EBITDA and revenue multiples, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital (interest rates, etc.) or the bankruptcy of a significant customer. These factors, along with other internal and external factors, could negatively impact our net worth and could have a significant impact on our fair valuation determination, which could then result in a material impairment charge in our results of operations. In fiscal 2013 we had an impairment of trademark intangible assets. During fiscal 2014, we had an impairment of goodwill and trademark intangible assets. We could have additional impairments in the future. See further discussion of these impairment losses in MD&A and Notes 2 and 6 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” of our audited consolidated financial statements contained in this report.Unsuccessful implementation of business strategies to reduce costs may adversely affect our results of operations. Many of our costs, such as raw materials, energy and freight, are outside our control. Therefore, we must seek to reduce costs in other areas, such as through operating efficiency. If we are not able to complete projects designed to reduce costs and increase operating efficiency on time or within budget, our operating profits may be adversely impacted. In addition, if the cost-saving initiatives we have implemented or any future cost-saving initiatives do not generate the expected cost savings and synergies, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our Active Nutrition and Michael Foods products are subject to a higher level of regulatory scrutiny, resulting in increased costs of operations and delays in product sales.Our products and operations are subject to the laws and regulations of the federal FDA, the USDA, and other applicable laws and regulations. Some of our Active Nutrition products are regulated by the FDA as dietary supplements, which are subject to different FDA regulations and level of regulatory scrutiny. Certain of Michael Foods’ products, specifically the egg products, are also subject to higher scrutiny by the FDA and USDA, as well as continuous on-site inspections. It is also possible that federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take regulatory or enforcement action, which could result in significant fines or penalties. If we are found to be significantly out of compliance, the FDA could issue a warning letter and/or institute enforcement actions that could result in substantial delays in production or even a temporary shutdown in manufacturing and product sales while the non-conformances are rectified. Also, we may have to recall products and temporarily cease their manufacture and distribution, which would increase our costs and reduce our revenues. Any product liability claims resulting from the failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations would be expensive to defend and could result in substantial damage awards against us or harm our reputation. Any of these events would negatively impact our revenues and costs of operations.Our Active Nutrition business has significant international sales. The production and marketing of our Active Nutrition products are currently subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and will face similar regulation from governmental authorities outside of the United States.Our inability to raise prices may adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to raise prices for our products may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to industry supply, market demand and promotional activity by competitors. If we are unable to increase prices for our products as may be necessary to cover cost increases, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, price increases typically generate lower sales volumes as customers purchase fewer units. If these losses are greater than expected or if we lose distribution as a result of a price increase, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 10Table of ContentsLoss of a significant customer may adversely affect our results of operations.A limited number of customer accounts represents a large percentage of our consolidated net sales. Our largest customer, Walmart accounted for approximately 11% of our net sales in fiscal 2014. Walmart is also the largest customer of our Post Foods business, accounting for approximately 24% of Post Foods’ net sales in fiscal 2014. Additionally, the largest customers of our Michael Foods business, Sysco and US Foods, accounted for approximately 17% and 13%, respectively, of Michael Foods’ net sales in fiscal 2014, and the largest customers of our Active Nutrition business, Costco and Sam’s Club, accounted for approximately 36% and 15%, respectively, of the Active Nutrition segment’s net sales in fiscal 2014. The success of our businesses depends, in part, on our ability to maintain our level of sales and product distribution through high-volume food distributors, retailers, super centers and mass merchandisers. The competition to supply products to these high-volume stores is intense. Currently, we do not have long-term supply agreements with a substantial number of our retail customers, including our largest customers. These high-volume stores and mass merchandisers frequently reevaluate the products they carry. A decision by our major customers to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us, sell a national brand on an exclusive basis or change the manner of doing business with us could reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our results of operations. In the event of a loss of any of our large customers, or the bankruptcy or serious financial difficulty of any of our large customers, our sales may be adversely affected.Consolidation among the retail grocery and foodservice industries may hurt profit margins. Over the past several years, the retail grocery and foodservice industries have undergone significant consolidations and mass merchandisers are gaining market share. As this trend continues and such customers grow larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing, increased reliance on their own brand name products, increased emphasis on generic and other value brands and increased promotional programs. If we are unable to respond to these requirements, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if the surviving entity is not a customer, we may lose significant business once held with the acquired retailer. If our products become adulterated, misbranded or mislabeled or become contaminated, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured. Selling food products and nutritional supplements involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens or other adulteration. Additionally, many of the inputs used to make certain of our products, particularly eggs, raw potatoes and peanuts, are vulnerable to contamination by pathogens—naturally occurring disease-producing organisms—such as salmonella. We may need to recall some or all of our products if they become adulterated, mislabeled or misbranded. This could result in destruction of product inventory, negative publicity, temporary plant closings, substantial costs of compliance or remediation and increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies. Should consumption of any product cause injury, we may be liable for monetary damages as a result of a judgment against us. In addition, adverse publicity, including claims, whether or not valid, that our products or ingredients are unsafe or of poor quality may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Any of these events, including a significant product liability claim against us, could result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products. This could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.Pending and future litigation may lead us to incur significant costs. We are, or may become, party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business, which may include lawsuits or claims relating to contracts, intellectual property, product recalls, product liability, false or deceptive advertising, employment matters, environmental matters or other aspects of our business. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. The outcome of litigation is often difficult to predict, and the outcome of pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations.In addition to ordinary course of business litigation risk, Michael Foods is currently subject to a lawsuit alleging violations of federal and state antitrust laws in connection with the production and sale of shell eggs and egg products, and seeking unspecified damages. If Michael Foods cannot resolve this matter favorably, it could be subject to (i) monetary damages and/or (ii) injunctive relief. If injunctive relief were to be granted, depending on its scope, it could affect the manner in which Michael Foods operates. The defense of these actions and any other actions brought in the future, is time consuming and diverts management’s attention. Even if Michael Foods is ultimately successful in defending such matters, Michael Foods is likely to incur significant fees, costs and expenses as long as they are ongoing.While Michael Foods has insurance programs in place, the potential liabilities associated with these litigation matters, or those that could arise in the future, could be excluded from coverage or, if covered, could exceed the coverage provided by such programs. In addition, insurance carriers may seek to rescind or deny coverage with respect to pending or future claims or lawsuits. If we do not have sufficient coverage under our policies, or if coverage is denied, we may be required to make material payments to settle litigation or satisfy any judgment. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.11Table of ContentsDisruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In coordination with our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our collective manufacturing or distribution capabilities resulting from weather, any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, disease, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, repairs or enhancements at our facilities, or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and may require additional resources to restore our supply chain.We are party to certain transition services agreements, and if such services are not provided or if we cannot replace such services after expiration or termination of the transition services agreements, we may incur significant costs, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We are a party to a number of transition services agreements under which a third party is providing certain transitional services to us, including finance/accounting, operations, information technology, facilities, procurement, sales and marketing, and other services for a period of time. These services may not be sufficient to meet our needs. After these agreements expire or if they are otherwise terminated, if we have not established our own support for these services, we may not be able to obtain these services at favorable prices or on favorable terms, if at all. Any failure or significant downtime in the services being provided to us during the transitional period could negatively impact our results of operations or prevent us from performing administrative or other services on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We are currently dependent on third party manufacturers to manufacture many products for our business. Our business could suffer as a result of a third-party manufacturer’s inability to produce our products for us on time and to our specifications.Our business relies on independent third parties for the manufacture of many products, such as protein bars and shakes and certain cereal and granola products. The business could be materially affected if we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these third parties, if these parties fail to comply with governmental regulations applicable to the manufacturing of our products, or if one of these third parties ceases doing business with us or goes out of business. Additionally, we cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with these third-party manufacturers, such as increases in manufacturing costs, reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control and failure to meet production deadlines. The inability of a third party manufacturer to ship orders in a timely manner, in desirable quantities or to meet our safety, quality and social compliance standards or regulatory requirements could have a material adverse impact on our business.The termination or expiration of current co-manufacturing arrangements could reduce our sales volume and adversely affect our results of operations.Our businesses periodically enter into co-manufacturing arrangements. The terms of these agreements vary but are generally for relatively short periods of time. Volumes produced under each of these agreements can fluctuate significantly. Our future ability to enter into co-manufacturing arrangements is not guaranteed, and a decrease in current co-manufacturing levels could have a significant negative impact on sales volume.Termination of our material licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business. We manufacture and market our Pebbles™ products in the United States, Canada and several other locations pursuant to a long-term intellectual property license agreement. This license gives us the exclusive right (subject only to an exception regarding the sale of similar products in amusement and theme parks) to use the Flintstones characters in connection with breakfast cereal and to sell all Pebbles™ branded cereal products in those regions. If we were to breach any material term of this license agreement and not timely cure the breach, the licensor could terminate the agreement. If the licensor were to terminate our rights to use the Flintstones characters or the Pebbles™ brand for this or any other reason, the loss of such rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. Global capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing and disrupt the operations of our suppliers and customers. U.S. and global credit markets have, from time to time, experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive and in certain cases resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Events affecting the credit markets have also had an adverse effect on other financial markets in the U.S., which may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock or other equity securities or refinance our existing debt, sell our assets or borrow more money if necessary. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business or increase our interest expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 12Table of ContentsChanging currency exchange rates may adversely affect our earnings and financial position. We have operations and assets in the United States as well as foreign jurisdictions, and a portion of our contracts and revenues are denominated in foreign currencies. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. We therefore must translate our foreign assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. Consequently, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies may negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements. To the extent we fail to manage our foreign currency exposure adequately, we may suffer losses in value of our net foreign currency investment, and our consolidated results of operations and financial position may be negatively affected. Violations of laws or regulations, as well as new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our business. The food production and marketing industry is subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including food safety requirements related to the ingredients, manufacture, processing, storage, marketing, advertising, labeling and distribution of our products as well as those related to worker health and workplace safety. Our activities, both in and outside of the United States, are subject to extensive regulation. In the United States we are regulated by, among other federal and state authorities, the FDA, USDA, U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the U.S. Departments of Commerce and Labor. We are also regulated by similar authorities abroad. Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, healthcare costs, energy usage, immigration and other labor issues, any and/or all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business or those of our customers or suppliers. In addition, because we market and advertise our products, we could be the target of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal, state and foreign laws and regulations and may be subject to initiatives to limit or prohibit the marketing and advertising of our products to children. Changes in these laws or regulations or the introduction of new laws or regulations could increase the costs of doing business for us or our customers or suppliers or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. A specific example is a possible future law which could require us to alter cage hen sizes similar to those introduced in various state legislatures. Further, if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any and/or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changing rules and regulations applicable to public companies impose significant costs and obligations on us. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. Our efforts to comply with these requirements may result in an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time. We may not be able to operate successfully if we lose key personnel, are unable to hire qualified additional personnel or experience turnover of our management team. We are highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to operate and expand our business. If we lose one or more members of our senior management team, or if we fail to attract new employees, our business and financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be harmed. Changes in weather conditions, natural disasters and other events beyond our control can adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in weather conditions and natural disasters, such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, fires or pestilence, may affect the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials, including grains, eggs, potatoes, tree nuts, corn syrup and sugar. Additionally, these events can result in reduced supplies of raw materials and longer recoveries of usable raw materials. Competing manufacturers can be affected differently by weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their suppliers and operations. Failure to take adequate steps to reduce the likelihood or mitigate the potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, and/or require additional resources to restore our supply chain.Unusual agricultural diseases (such as avian influenza) and/or pests could harm our business.Many of our business activities are subject to a variety of agricultural risks, including disease and pests which can adversely affect the quality and quantity of the raw materials we use, as well as the food products we produce and distribute. In particular, avian influenza occasionally affects the domestic poultry industry, leading to hen deaths. A virulent form of avian influenza emerged in Southeast Asia several years ago and spread elsewhere in the Eastern Hemisphere. It caused deaths in wild bird populations and, in limited instances, domesticated fowl flocks. It was also linked to illness and death among some persons who were in contact with diseased fowl. It is unclear if this form of avian influenza will manifest itself in North America, or if sheltered flocks, such as ours, have significant exposure risk. However, a manifestation of avian influenza in our sheltered flocks could have a material 13Table of Contentsadverse effect on our business. To protect against this risk, we utilize biosecurity measures at our layer locations. Nevertheless, disease and pests could affect a substantial portion of our production facilities in any year and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.Labor strikes or work stoppages by our employees could harm our business. Some of our full-time production and maintenance employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A dispute with a union or employees represented by a union could result in production interruptions caused by work stoppages. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we could be subject to unionization efforts at our non-union facilities. Increased unionization of our workforce could lead to disruptions in our business, increases in our operating costs and/or constraints on our operating flexibility.In the event of a work stoppage, we have contingency plans in place to manufacture products in other locations to mitigate disruption to the business. However, there are limitations inherent in any plan to mitigate disruption to our business in the event of a work stoppage and, particularly in the case of a prolonged work stoppage, there can be no assurance that it would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Increases in costs of medical and other employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our profitability.With approximately 7,950 employees, our profitability is substantially affected by costs of medical and other health and welfare benefits for current employees. These costs can vary substantially as a result of changes in health care laws, costs and experience. These factors may increase the cost of providing medical and other employee health and welfare benefits. We can provide no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases. If we do not succeed, our profitability could be negatively affected.We may experience losses or be subject to increased funding and expenses to our qualified pension plans, which could negatively impact profits. We maintain qualified defined benefit plans in the United States and Canada for our Post Foods business, and we are obligated to ensure that these plans are funded in accordance with applicable regulations. In the event the assets in which we invest do not perform according to expectations, or the valuation of the projected benefit obligation increases due to changes in interest rates or other factors, we may be required to make significant cash contributions to these plans and recognize increased expense on our financial statements. Further, we provide superannuation benefits to Australian employees. Superannuation is a long-term retirement investment vehicle that provides tax advantages to employees allowing them to save for retirement. Superannuation contributions consist of employer contributions and voluntary employee contributions and are subject to government regulations that may require us to increase our contributions, which could negatively impact our profits. Technology failures could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. We are increasingly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. We increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information. For example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. Furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our personnel, customers and suppliers depends on information technology. Our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. Such interruptions could negatively impact our business. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure and to maintain and protect the related automated and manual control processes, we could be subject to billing and collection errors, business disruptions, or damage resulting from security breaches. If any of our significant information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown, and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results. In addition, there is a risk of business interruption, litigation risks, and reputational damage from leakage of confidential information.Our intellectual property rights are valuable and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. We consider our intellectual property rights, particularly our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licenses, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and the policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. Our failure to obtain or maintain 14Table of Contentsadequate protection of our intellectual property rights, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights. Any claims of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or rebrand our products or packaging, if feasible; divert management’s attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property. Any royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Additionally, a successful claim of infringement against us could result in our being required to pay significant damages, enter into costly license or royalty agreements or stop the sale of certain products, any and/or all of which could have a negative impact on our operating profits and harm our future prospects.Media campaigns related to food production present risks.Media outlets, including new social media platforms, provide the opportunity for individuals or organizations to publicize inappropriate or inaccurate stories or perceptions about us or the food industry. Such practices have the ability to cause damage to our brands, the industry generally, or consumers’ perceptions of us or the food production industry and may result in negative publicity and adversely affect our financial results.We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that can impose significant costs and expose us to potential financial liabilities. We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including those limiting the discharge and release of pollutants into the environment and those regulating the transport, use, treatment, storage, disposal and remediation of, and exposure to, solid and hazardous wastes and materials. In addition, our Michael Foods business is subject to particular federal and state environmental requirements governing animal feeding operations involving the management of animal waste, which have become the subject of increasing regulatory scrutiny. Certain environmental laws and regulations can impose joint and several liability without regard to fault on responsible parties, including past and present owners and operators of sites, related to cleaning up sites at which hazardous wastes or materials were disposed or released. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could result in severe fines and penalties by governments or courts of law. In addition, various current and likely future federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations could regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide and methane. We cannot predict the impact that such regulation may have, or that climate change may otherwise have, on our business. Future events, such as new or more stringent environmental laws and regulations, any new environmental claims, the discovery of currently unknown environmental conditions requiring response action or more vigorous enforcement or a new interpretation of existing environmental laws and regulations, might require us to incur additional costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our international operations subject us to additional risks.As a result of recent acquisitions, we now have larger operations outside of the United States. We are accordingly subject to a number of risks relating to doing business internationally, any of which could significantly harm our business. These risks include: •restriction on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, including potentially negative tax consequences;•exchange controls and currency exchange rates;•increased exposure to general market and economic conditions outside the United States;•additional political risk;•compliance with anti-corruption regulations (including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act); and•foreign tax treaties and policies. Our financial performance on a U.S. dollar denominated basis is subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our principal exposure is to the Canadian dollar.Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance.From time to time, we release guidance regarding our future performance that represents our management’s estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which consists of forward-looking statements, is prepared by our management and is qualified by, and subject to, the assumptions and the other information contained or referred to in such release and the factors described under “Forward-Looking Statements” in our current and periodic reports filed with the SEC. Our guidance is not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our 15Table of Contentsindependent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the guidance and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto.Guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release this data is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons.Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from the guidance. Investors should also recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the farther in the future that the data is forecast. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to put the guidance in context and not to place undue reliance on it.Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances described in this report could result in actual operating results being different than the guidance, and such differences may be adverse and material.Our historical financial results as a business segment of Ralcorp may not be representative of our results as a separate, stand-alone company. A portion of the historical financial information we have included in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings and press releases has been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Ralcorp. Our historical financial information accordingly does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we operated as a separate, stand-alone company during the entirety of the periods presented or those that we may achieve in the future primarily as a result of the following factors: •Prior to the separation, our business was operated by Ralcorp as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. Ralcorp or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to, legal, treasury, accounting, auditing, risk management, information technology, human resources, corporate affairs, tax administration, certain governance functions (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and internal audit) and external reporting. Our historical financial results for period prior to the separation include allocations of corporate expenses from Ralcorp for these and similar functions. These allocations may be less than the comparable expenses we incur as a separate publicly traded company;•Prior to the separation, our business was integrated with the other businesses of Ralcorp. Historically, we have shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. The loss of the benefits of doing business as part of Ralcorp could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition; •Prior to the separation, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including advertising and trade promotions, research and development and capital expenditures, were satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of Ralcorp. In connection with the separation, we incurred substantial indebtedness, as discussed in this report; and •The cost of capital for our business may be higher than Ralcorp’s cost of capital prior to the separation because Ralcorp’s cost of debt prior to the separation may have been lower than ours following the separation. We incurred material costs and expenses separating from Ralcorp and establishing Post as a stand-alone, public company, which could adversely affect our profitability. As a result of our separation from Ralcorp, we have incurred costs and expenses greater than those we incurred prior to the separation. These increased costs and expenses arose from various factors, including financial reporting, costs associated with complying with federal securities laws (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002), information technology, tax administration and legal and human resources related functions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to reduce these costs to levels incurred prior to our separation from Ralcorp. 16Table of ContentsIf we are unable to continue to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned, and our stock price may suffer.Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the United States securities laws to perform a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures, our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent auditors are required to issue an opinion on their audit of our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our auditors identify material weaknesses in our internal controls, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may consequently suffer. As of September 30, 2014, management had determined that our internal control over financial reporting was effective. We have recently acquired companies that were not subject to Sarbanes-Oxley regulations and, therefore, they may lack the internal controls of a United States public company, which could ultimately affect our ability to ensure compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have recently acquired companies that were not previously subject to Sarbanes Oxley regulations and accordingly were not required to establish and maintain an internal control infrastructure meeting the standards promulgated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2014 did not include the internal controls of Agricore United Holdings Inc. (the sole shareholder of Dakota Growers Pasta Company, Inc.), Dymatize Enterprises, LLC, Golden Boy Foods Ltd. or MFI Holding Corporation, each of which was acquired during our fiscal year ended September 30, 2014.Although our management will continue to review and evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls in light of these acquisitions, we cannot provide any assurances that there will be no significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the internal control structure of our acquired businesses may cause significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.Risks Related to Recent Financing Transactions We have substantial debt and high leverage, which could have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity position and which could adversely affect our business.We have a significant amount of debt. We had $3,810.9 million in aggregate principal amount of total debt as of September 30, 2014. Additionally, our secured revolving credit facility has outstanding letters of credit of $0.5 million which reduces the available borrowing capacity to $399.5 million at September 30, 2014 (all of which would be secured when drawn).Our overall leverage and the terms of our financing arrangements could: •limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions; •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt obligations; •limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; •limit our flexibility to plan for and adjust to changing business and market conditions and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future investments, capital expenditures, working capital, business activities and other general corporate requirements; •limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, for capital expenditures, to fund growth or for general corporate purposes, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity, particularly if any ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; and •subject us to higher levels of indebtedness than our competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce our flexibility in responding to increased competition. 17Table of ContentsOur ability to meet expenses and debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in consumer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. If we do not generate enough cash to pay our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell our assets, borrow more money or raise equity. The agreements governing our debt, contain, or may in future financings contain, various covenants that limit our ability to take certain actions and also require us to meet financial maintenance tests, failure to comply with which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our financing arrangements contain restrictions, covenants and events of default that, among other things, require us to maintain certain financial ratios and restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and to refinance our existing indebtedness. Financing arrangements which we enter into in the future could contain similar restrictions and could additionally require us to comply with similar, new or additional financial tests or to maintain similar, new or additional financial ratios. The terms of our financing arrangements and any financing arrangements which we may enter into in the future may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could limit our ability to pay dividends, redeem our stock, respond to market conditions, provide for capital investment needs or take advantage of business opportunities by limiting the amount of additional borrowings we may incur. These restrictions include compliance with, or maintenance of, certain financial tests and ratios and may limit or prohibit our ability to, among other things:•borrow money or guarantee debt; •create liens; •pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock or other securities; •make investments and acquisitions; •enter into or permit to exist contractual limits on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; •enter into new lines of business; •enter into transactions with affiliates; and •sell assets or merge with other companies. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants. Failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants in our existing or future financing arrangements could result in a default under those arrangements and under other arrangements containing cross-default provisions and if the indebtedness thereunder is accelerated, could trigger cross-acceleration.In addition to the limitations on our ability to incur debt contained in our credit agreement and the documents governing our other debt, including the indentures for our outstanding senior notes, our credit agreement permits us to incur additional unsecured debt only if our consolidated leverage ratio, calculated as provided in the credit agreement, would be less than 5.75 to 1.00 after giving effect to such new debt. Our consolidated leverage ratio exceeded this threshold as of September 30, 2014; however, the Credit Agreement, after giving effect to the May 1, 2014 amendment, permitted the financing transactions contemplated in connection with the Michael Foods acquisition, notwithstanding our consolidated leverage ratio. However, our ability to finance acquisitions with unsecured debt (including additional senior notes) in the future may be limited so long as our consolidated leverage ratio equals or exceeds 5.75 to 1.00.A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these arrangements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations, including our obligations under our senior notes and the amortizing notes component of our tangible equity units. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing.To service our indebtedness and other cash needs, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to pay interest on our outstanding senior notes, to satisfy our other debt obligations, including payments on our term loan under our credit agreement, and to fund any planned capital expenditures, dividends and other cash needs will depend in part upon the future financial and operating performance of our subsidiaries and upon our ability to renew or refinance borrowings. Prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments. If we are unable to make payments or refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we may consider other options, including: 18Table of Contents•sales of assets; •sales of equity; •reduction or delay of capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances; or •negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt.Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the senior notes and our other debt obligations, including the term loan, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Risks Related to Our Common StockYour percentage ownership in Post may be diluted in the future.As with any publicly traded company, our shareholders’ percentage ownership in Post may be diluted in the future because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including equity awards that we expect will be granted to our directors, officers and employees and the accelerated vesting of other equity awards. For a more detailed description of the stock incentive plan, see “Executive Compensation.”The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile.The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risk factors listed in this report or for reasons unrelated to our performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative developments relating to our customers, competitors or suppliers, as well as general economic and industry conditions.Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Missouri law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Missouri law contain provisions intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive and to incentivize prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others:•the board of directors is divided into three classes with staggered terms;•the board of directors fixes the number of members on the board;•elimination of the rights of our shareholders to act by written consent (except when such consent is unanimous) and to call shareholder meetings;•rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings;•the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval;•supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our articles of incorporation and bylaws;•anti-takeover provisions of Missouri law which may prevent us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder, or which may deter third parties from acquiring amounts of our common stock above certain thresholds; and•limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNot applicable. 