D. Risk Factors An investment in our capital stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this annual report, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our capital stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our business is based on a relatively new business model in a relatively new market in which user demand may change or decrease substantially. Many of the elements of our business are unique, evolving and relatively unproven. The markets for our technology, especially our voice- and video-based technology, and products and services are relatively new and rapidly developing and are subject to significant challenges. Our business plan relies heavily upon increased revenues from internet value-added services, or IVAS, as well as our ability to successfully monetize our user base and products and services, and we may not succeed in any of these respects. Some of our current monetization methods are in a relatively preliminary stage. If we fail to properly manage the supply and timing of our in-game virtual items and the appropriate price points for these products and services, for example, our users may be less likely to purchase in-game virtual items from us. For non-game virtual items, we consider industry standards and expected user demand in determining how to most effectively optimize virtual item merchandizing. Furthermore, as the online music and entertainment industry in China is relatively young and untested, there are few proven methods of projecting user demand or available industry standards on which we can rely. We cannot assure you that our attempts to monetize our user base and products and services will continue to be successful, profitable or widely accepted, and therefore the future revenue and income potential of our business are difficult to evaluate. 5 If we fail to effectively manage our growth or implement our business strategies, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We have experienced a period of significant rapid growth and expansion that has placed, and continues to place, significant strain on our management and resources. We cannot assure you that this level of significant growth will be sustainable or achieved at all in the future. We believe that our continued growth will depend on our ability to develop new sources of revenue, increase monetization, attract new users, retain and expand paying users, encourage additional purchases by our paying users, continue developing innovative technologies in response to user demand, increase brand awareness through marketing and promotional activities, react to changes in user access to and use of the internet, expand into new market segments, integrate new devices, platforms and operating systems, attract new advertisers and retain existing advertisers and take advantage of any growth in the relevant markets. We cannot assure you that we will achieve any of the above. To manage our growth and maintain profitability, we anticipate that we will need to continue to implement, from time to time, a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls on an as-needed basis, including the continued improvement of our accounting and other internal management systems. We will also need to further expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce and manage our relationships with users, third party game developers, advertisers and other business partners. All of these endeavors involve risks and will require substantial management efforts and skills and significant additional expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage our growth or implement our future business strategies, and failure to do so may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are a relatively young company, and you should consider our prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties which early-stage companies in evolving industries in China with limited operating histories may be exposed to or encounter, including possible volatility in the trading prices of our ADSs. We expect that we will continue to incur significant costs and expenses in many aspects of our business, such as research and development costs to update existing services and launch new services and rising bandwidth costs to support our video function, grow our user base and generally expand our business operations. We have been profitable since 2012 and achieved accumulated profitability in 2014, but we may not generate sufficient revenues to offset such costs to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. In addition, we expect to continue to invest heavily in our operations to maintain our current market position, support our anticipated future growth and meet our expanded reporting and compliance obligations as a public company. Our profitability is also affected by other factors beyond our control. The continued success of our platform depends on our ability to identify which IVAS will appeal to our user base and to offer such IVAS on commercially acceptable terms. Our ability to finance our planned expansion also depends in part on our ability to convert active users into paying users and increase the average revenue per paying user, or ARPU, and successfully compete in a very competitive market. We have a limited operating history. We introduced YY Client in July 2008 and have experienced a high growth rate since then. As a result of our relatively short history, our historical results of operations may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and future prospects. We may not be able to achieve similar growth rates in future periods. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. We may again incur net losses in the future and you should consider our prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties which early-stage companies in evolving industries in China with limited operating histories such as ours may be exposed to or encounter, including risks associated with being a public company with business operations located mainly in China. See "—Risks Related to Our ADSs—The trading prices of our ADSs are likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors." 6 Our business is heavily dependent on revenues from IVAS. If our IVAS revenues decline in the future, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Historically, a majority of our revenues are revenues from IVAS, which mainly consists of revenues from online music and entertainment, online games, online dating, live game broadcasting and membership subscription fees. In the year ended December 31, 2014, revenues from IVAS constituted approximately 96.0% of our total net revenue. We expect that our business will continue to be dependent on revenues from IVAS in the future. Any decline in IVAS revenues may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. See "—The revenue model for each of our online music and entertainment and our membership program may not remain effective, which may affect our ability to retain existing users and attract new users and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations", "—The revenue model we adopt for online games may not remain effective, causing us to lose game players, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations", "—The revenue model for our online dating is relatively new and may not remain effective, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations" and "—The revenue model for our live game broadcasting business is relatively new and may not remain effective, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations." The revenue model for each of our online music and entertainment and our membership program may not remain effective, which may affect our ability to retain existing users and attract new users and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate an online music and entertainment platform using a virtual items-based revenue model whereby users can listen to music and access other forms of entertainment for free, and have the option of purchasing in-channel virtual items. We have generated, and expect to continue to generate, a substantial majority of our online and entertainment revenues using this revenue model. In 2014, online music and entertainment contributed 57.3% of our total net revenues. We may not be able to continue to successfully implement the virtual items-based revenue model for online music and entertainment, as popular performers may leave our platform and we may be unable to attract new talent that can attract users or cause such users to increase the amount of time spent engaging and money spent on purchasing in-channel virtual items on our platform. Furthermore, under our current arrangements with certain popular performers and channel owners, we share with them a portion of the revenues we derive from the sales of in-channel virtual items on our online music and entertainment platform. In the future, the amount we pay to these performers and channel owners may increase or we may fail to reach mutually acceptable terms with these performers or channel owners, which may adversely affect our revenues or cause popular performers and channel owners to leave our platform. In addition, we have been a pioneer in offering an online concert platform to music performers and YY users, but if our users decide to access online music and entertainment content provided by our current or future competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In our membership program, users pay a flat monthly subscription fee in order to become members, and in exchange, we give them access to various privileges and enhanced features on our channels, including additional video usage, priority entrance to certain live performances, and exclusive rights to access VIP avatars, VIP ring-tones, VIP fonts and VIP emoticons. However, we may not be able to further build or maintain our membership base in the future for various reasons—for example, if we fail to continue to provide innovative products and services that are attractive to members, we may not be able to retain them and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The revenue model we adopt for online games may not remain effective, causing us to lose game players, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently operate substantially all of our online games on YY using the virtual items-based revenue model, whereby players can play games for free, but have the option of purchasing in-game virtual items and in-game accessories. We have generated, and expect to continue to generate, a substantial majority of our online game revenues using this revenue model. However, we may not be able to continue successfully implementing the virtual items-based revenue model as we may not be able to develop, obtain or maintain the rights to host online games that attract game players or cause such game players to increase the amount of time spent playing and the amount of money spent on purchasing in-game virtual items. The sale of virtual items requires us to closely track game players' tastes and preferences and in-game consumption patterns. If we fail to offer popular virtual items, we may not be able to effectively convert our game player base into paying users or encourage existing paying users to spend more on YY. In addition, PRC regulators have been implementing regulations designed to reduce the amount of time that youths in China spend playing online games. See "Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation—Anti-fatigue Compliance System and Real-name Registration System." A revenue model that does not charge for playing time may be viewed by the PRC regulators as inconsistent with this goal. If we were to start charging for playing time, we may lose game players who may choose to play online games from other providers and on other platforms or choose to engage in other alternative forms of entertainment, including traditional offline personal computers, or PCs, or video games. 7 We cannot assure you that the revenue model that we have adopted for any of our online games will continue to be suitable, or that we will not in the future need to change our revenue model or introduce a new revenue model. We may change the revenue model for some of our online games if we believe the existing models are not generating adequate revenues. A change in revenue model could result in various adverse consequences, including disruptions of our online game operations, criticism from game players who have invested time and money in a game, a decrease in the number of our game players and a decrease in the revenues we generate from our online games. Therefore, such a change in revenue model may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of popular online games. If we cannot continue to offer these popular games for any reason, if we are unable to successfully source new online games, if the terms of the revenue-sharing or exclusive license arrangements become less favorable, or if the number of our paying users for online games declines or ceases to grow for any reason, our revenues from online games may decrease, and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of popular online games on YY, primarily through selling of game tokens to users for their purchase of in-game virtual items. In 2014, the five most popular online games contributed approximately 36.1% of our total online game revenues, as compared to 45.2% in 2013, representing a decrease in reliance on our top games. A majority of our popular online games are created by third party game developers under revenue-sharing arrangements that typically last one to two years, and which typically provide for automatic extension or renewal. A few of our online games are licensed to us by third party game developers under exclusive license arrangements. If we fail to maintain or renew these contracts on acceptable terms or at all, we may be unable to continue offering these popular online games, and our operating results will be adversely affected. For online games licensed to us under exclusive license arrangements, we also have to devote additional resources to promoting these games on our platform or licensing such games to the appropriate third party operators. If our users decide to access any of our online games through our competitors, or if they prefer other online games hosted by our competitors, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our revenues from online games accounted for 40.5%, 33.0% and 22.1% of our total net revenues in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. We believe that most online games have a limited commercial lifespan. We must continually source new online games that appeal to our game players. Hence, we must maintain good relationships with our third party game developers to have access to new popular games with reasonable revenue-sharing or exclusive licensing terms. Under our current revenue-sharing and exclusive license arrangements, we retain a majority of the gross revenues generated from each particular game. In the future, we may not be able to achieve similarly attractive revenue-sharing or other commercial terms, which may adversely affect our net revenues. Additionally, we depend upon these third party game developers to provide the technical support necessary to operate their online games on our platform and to develop updates and expansion packs to sustain player interest in a game. Most of our third party game developers have limited operating histories and financial resources, and the contracts we enter into with them do not clearly provide for remedies to us in the event they fail to deliver the games or the promised updates and expansion packs as scheduled . If we are not successful in sourcing and providing popular new online games, our revenues from online games under revenue-sharing and exclusive licensing arrangements and in-game virtual items may decrease. If this were to happen, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The revenue model for our online dating business is relatively new and may not remain affective, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our online dating business adopts a virtual items-based revenue model, which allows our users to participate or watch online dating shows for free and enjoy the option of purchasing in-channel virtual items. Our online dating business was based on the format of a popular reality dating TV show in China, and has experienced significant growth since it was launched at the end of 2013. We cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve a similar growth rate in the future, as the user demand for this service may change, decrease substantially or dissipate, or we may fail to anticipate and serve user demands effectively. 8 A majority of our online dating service active users also use other businesses on the YY platform. If we fail to attract new users or build and maintain a core user base for our online dating business, we may not be able to achieve growth in this part of our business, if at all. Online dating is the most engaging and interactive of all our businesses, and the successful monetization of this business relies upon the highly interactive relationship among the hosts, the participants and the audience. Failure to keep our users engaged in the dating service may result in reducing ARPU and the number of paying users, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The revenue model for our live game broadcasting business is relatively new and may not remain effective, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our live game broadcasting business adopts a virtual items-based revenue model. We provide users with free access to the live streaming of different game plays, and offer the option of purchasing in-channel virtual items. The live game broadcasting market is relatively new in China, however, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve growth in this business in the future as the user demand for this service may change, decrease substantially or dissipate, or we may fail to anticipate and serve user demands effectively. Our live game broadcasting business relies on the availability of online games that users can play and stream on YY platform during the course of the game play. These online games are typically owned by or licensed to certain gaming companies or publishers, some of which compete with us in other lines of our business. These online games may not continue to be available to our users for live streaming purposes and we cannot assure you that the revenue model we have adopted for our live game broadcasting business will continue to be successful. Live game broadcasting users tend to follow famous professional game teams and commentators. In order to retain existing users and attract new users, we cooperate with popular professional game teams and commentators to make their game play available on our platform by paying them fixed sponsorship fees. Most of the sponsorship contracts are renewed annually. In addition, we share with popular professional game teams and commentators a portion of the revenues we derive from the sales of in-channel virtual items in our live game broadcasting business. In the future, the sponsorship fees we pay to these professional game teams and commentators may increase or we may fail to reach mutually acceptable terms with these professional game teams or commentators at all, which may cause professional game teams or commentators to leave our platform. In turn, this may affect the user and revenue growth in this business, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We generate a portion of our revenues from online advertising. If we fail to attract more advertisers to our platform or if advertisers are less willing to advertise with us, our revenues may be adversely affected. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, online advertising accounted for 14.3%, 9.0% and 4.0%, respectively, of our total net revenues. Although we have become less dependent upon online advertising revenues due to a shift in the majority of our revenues from online advertising to IVAS, our revenues still partly depend on the continual development of the online advertising industry in China and advertisers' allocation of budgets to internet advertising. In addition, companies that decide to advertise online may utilize more established methods or channels for online advertising, such as more established Chinese internet portals or search engines, over advertising on our platform. If the online advertising market size does not increase from current levels, or if we are unable to capture and retain a sufficient share of that market, our ability to maintain or increase our current level of online advertising revenues and our profitability and prospects could be adversely affected. These risks may affect our revenues because we intend to offer new and different forms of online advertising in addition to online game-related advertising on Duowan.com, from which we have historically derived significant portions of our revenues. We offer advertising services substantially through contracts entered into with third party advertising agencies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain existing direct advertisers or advertising agencies or attract new direct advertisers and advertising agencies. Since our arrangements with third party advertising agencies typically involve one-year framework agreements, these advertising arrangements may be easily amended or terminated without incurring liabilities. Failure to retain existing advertisers and advertising agencies or attract new direct advertisers and direct advertising agencies may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 We have granted employee stock options and other share-based awards in the past and will continue to do so in the future. We recognize share-based compensation expenses in our consolidated statements of operations in accordance with the relevant rules under U.S. GAAP, which have had and may continue to have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. We have granted share-based compensation awards, including share options, restricted shares and restricted share units, to various employees, key personnel and other non-employees to incentivize performance and align their interests with ours. Under our 2009 employee equity incentive scheme, or the 2009 Scheme, we are authorized to grant options or restricted shares to purchase a maximum of 120,020,001 common shares. Under our 2011 share incentive plan, or the 2011 Plan, we are authorized to grant options, restricted shares or restricted share units to purchase a maximum of 43,000,000 common shares, plus an annual increase of 20,000,000 common shares on the first day of each fiscal year, beginning from 2013, or such smaller number of Class A common shares as determined by our board of directors. As of March 31, 2015, options to purchase 3,510,745 common shares, 20,184,033 restricted shares and 47,023,736 restricted share units were outstanding under the 2009 Scheme and the 2011 Plan. As a result of these grants and potential future grants, we had incurred in the past and expect to continue to incur significant share-based compensation expenses in the future. The amount of these expenses is based on the fair value of the share-based awards. We account for compensation costs for certain share-based compensation awards granted in the past using a graded-vesting method and recognize expenses in our consolidated statements of operations in accordance with the relevant rules under U.S. GAAP. The expenses associated with share-based compensation materially increased our net losses or reduced our net income in the past, and may reduce our net income in the future. In addition, any additional securities issued under share-based compensation schemes will dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. However, if we limit the scope of the share-based compensation schemes, we may not be able to attract or retain key personnel who expect to be compensated by options, restricted shares or restricted share units. The number of active users we have may fluctuate and we may fail to attract more paying users, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues growth, results of operations and financial condition. The number of our average monthly active users increased by 22.6 million or 32.4% to 92.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2013 and by 25.1 million or 27.6% to 117.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2014. The decline in growth rate was due to the increase in the base number of the average monthly active users, and despite that, we continued to attract higher levels of new monthly active users during such periods. However, the number of our monthly active users may substantially fluctuate from time to time. If we are unable to attract new users and retain them as active users and convert non-paying active users into paying users, our revenues may fail to grow and our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. We may not be able to keep our users highly engaged, which may reduce our monetization opportunities and materially and adversely affect our revenues, profitability and prospects. Our success depends on our ability to maintain and grow our user base and keep our users highly engaged. In order to attract and retain users and remain competitive, we must continue to innovate our products and services, implement new technologies and functionalities and improve the features of our platform in order to entice users to use our products and services more frequently and for longer durations. The internet industry is characterized by constant changes, including rapid technological evolution, continual shifts in customer demands, frequent introductions of new products and services and constant emergence of new industry standards and practices. Thus our success will depend, in part, on our ability to respond to these changes on a cost-effective and timely basis; failure to do so may cause our user base to shrink and user engagement level to decline and our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. For example, our plan to more fully extend online video-enabled services across our real-time interactive social platform and retain the ability to offer high quality delivery of voice and video data may cause us to incur significant additional costs and may not succeed. Because of the viral nature of online social interactions, users may leave us for competitors' platforms more quickly than in other online sectors. A decrease in the number of active YY users may reduce the diversity and vibrancy of our platform's online social ecosystem and affect our user-generated channels, which may in turn reduce our monetization opportunities and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 We cannot assure you that our platform will continue to be sufficiently popular with our users to offset the costs incurred to operate and expand it. User satisfaction is particularly difficult to predict as internet users in China may not be familiar with the concept of a real-time interactive social platform such as ours which provides real-time voice, text and video online. We have historically relied on word of mouth referrals to increase user awareness of our products and services and to expand our user base. If we decide to engage in more conventional advertising or marketing campaigns, our sales and marketing expenses will increase, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to maintain or grow our user base in a cost-effective manner, or at all, and keep our users highly engaged would materially and negatively affect our results of operations. We face competition in several major aspects of our business. If we fail to compete effectively, we may lose users and advertisers which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition in several major aspects of our business, particularly from companies that provide social networking, online music and entertainment, online games and live game broadcasting services. Some of our competitors may have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do, and in turn may have an advantage in attracting and retaining users and advertisers. In addition, competitors in some areas of our business may have significantly larger user bases and more established brand names than we do and may be able to more effectively leverage their user bases and brand names to provide integrated social networking, internet communication, online games and other products and services, and thereby increase their respective market shares. We may face potential competition from global online social networking service providers that seek to enter the China market, whether independently or through the formation of alliances with, or acquisition of, PRC domestic internet companies. In relation to voice-enabled technology, several internet voice communication service providers in China, including iSpeak, Tencent's QQtalk and Dudu, and leading international internet voice communication service providers, such as Skype, are expanding in the China market, and some other leading Chinese internet companies have announced the launch of internet voice communication services. In the online music and entertainment market, we compete with several domestic companies that are more focused on live music show or online KTVs, such as 9158.com, 6.cn and guagua.cn. A number of PRC internet companies have recently entered or announced their intention to enter into the music and entertainment market, such as NetEase, Baidu and Youku. In the live game broadcasting market, competition has intensified in the second half of 2014 following an inflood of venture capital investment. Our key competitors in live game broadcasting include douyutv.com, zhanqi.tv, and 17173.com. Furthermore, competition in domestic and overseas online game media markets is also intense. Other than its primary competitor, 17173.com, Duowan.com also competes with other major platforms that host online games, such as QQ and Qihoo 360. In addition, we compete with other internet companies that provide voice and video services to Chinese internet users. If we are not able to effectively compete in any of our lines of business, our overall user base and level of user engagement may decrease, which could reduce our paying users or make us less attractive to advertisers. We may be required to spend additional resources to further increase our brand recognition and promote our products and services, and such additional spending could adversely affect our profitability. Furthermore, if we are involved in disputes with any of our competitors that result in negative publicity to us, such disputes, regardless of their veracity or outcome, may harm our reputation or brand image and in turn lead to reduced number of users and advertisers. Any legal proceedings or measures we take in response to such disputes may be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and divert our management's attention. Our competitors may unilaterally decide to adopt a wide range of measures targeted at us, including possibly designing their products to negatively impact our operations, such as sending virus-like programs to attack elements of our platform. Some competitors may also make their applications incompatible with ours, effectively requiring users to either stop using our competitors' products or uninstall our products, leading to a reduction in our number of users. For example, in a widely publicized dispute between two of the largest companies providing user-end software in China, one of the companies announced that it would disable its own software on computers that had installed its rival's products. As a result, a significant number of users stopped using products from either or both of these companies. Due to the large number of internet users that were affected, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of China, or the MIIT, ordered the parties to ensure the compatibility of the relevant products. Similar events may occur in the future between our competitors and us, which may reduce our market share, negatively affect our brand and reputation, and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Spammers and malicious applications may affect user experience, which could reduce our ability to attract users and advertisers and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Spammers may use YY to send targeted and untargeted spam messages to users, which may affect user experience. As a result, our users may use our products and services less or stop using them altogether. In spamming activities, spammers typically create multiple user accounts for the purpose of sending spam messages. Although we attempt to identify and delete accounts created for spamming purposes, we may not be able to effectively eliminate all spam messages from our platform in a timely fashion. Any spamming activities could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We use third party services and technologies in connection with our business, and any disruption to the provision of these services and technologies to us could result in adverse publicity and a slowdown in the growth of our users, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends upon services provided by, and relationships with, third parties. If we are unable to retain or attract popular talents such as performers, channel managers, professional game players, commentators and hosts for online music and entertainment, live game broadcasting and online dating businesses or if these talents cannot draw fans or participants, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Also, if channel owners are unable to reach or maintain mutually satisfactory cooperation arrangements with the performers on their channels on the online music and entertainment platform, we may lose popular performers and our business and operations may be adversely affected. Furthermore, if we are unable to obtain or retain rights to host popular online games or popular in-game virtual items, or if we are required to share a bigger portion of our revenues with third party game developers, we could be required to devote greater resources and time to obtain hosting rights for new games and applications from other parties, and our results of operations may be impacted. In addition, some third party softwares we use in our operations are currently publicly available without charge. If the owner of any such software decides to charge users or no longer makes the software publicly available, we may need to incur significant cost to license the software, find replacement software or develop it on our own. If we are unable to find or develop replacement software at a reasonable cost, or at all, our business and operations may be adversely affected. Some of the games offered on our platform run on a complex network of servers located in and maintained by third party data centers throughout China and our overall network relies on broadband connections provided by third party operators. We expect this dependence on third parties to continue. The networks maintained and services provided by such third parties are vulnerable to damage or interruption, which could impact our results of operations. See "—System failure, interruptions and downtime can result in adverse publicity for our products and result in net revenue losses, a slowdown in the growth of our registered user accounts and a decrease in the number of our active users. If any of these system disruptions occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected." Furthermore, we generate substantially all of our online advertising revenues through agreements entered into with various third party advertising agencies that represent advertisers. We do not have long-term cooperation agreements or exclusive arrangements with these agencies and they may elect to direct business opportunities to other advertising service providers. If we fail to retain and enhance our business relationships with these third party advertising agencies, we may suffer from a loss of advertisers and our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we sell a significant portion of our products and services through third party online payment systems. If any of these third party online payment systems suffer from security breaches, users may lose confidence in such payment systems and refrain from purchasing our virtual items online, in which case our results of operations would be negatively impacted. See "—The security of operations of, and fees charged by, third party online payment platforms may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations." We exercise no control over the third parties with whom we have business arrangements. If such third parties increase their prices, fail to provide their services effectively, terminate their service or agreements or discontinue their relationships with us, we could suffer service interruptions, reduced revenues or increased costs, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 System failure, interruptions and downtime can result in adverse publicity for our products and result in net revenue losses, a slowdown in the growth of our registered user accounts and a decrease in the number of our active users. If any of these system disruptions occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Although we seek to reduce the possibility of disruptions or other outages, our services may be disrupted by problems with our own technology and system, such as malfunctions in our software or other facilities and network overload. Our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from telecommunication failures, power loss, computer attacks or viruses, earthquakes, floods, fires, terrorist attacks and similar events. We have experienced system failures, including a partial system outage in 2009 caused by hackers hired by a competing business intending to maliciously overwhelm and clog our servers and our routing system. Those responsible were subsequently found guilty and penalized by the PRC courts and we have subsequently updated our system to make it more difficult for similar attacks to succeed in the future, but we cannot assure you that there will be no similar failures in the future. Parts of our system are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. Despite any precaution we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our hosting facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in the availability of our products and services. Any interruption in the ability of our users to use our products and services could reduce our future revenues, harm our future profits, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and lead users to seek alternative forms of online social interactions. Our servers that process user payments experience some downtime on a regular basis, which may negatively affect our brand and user perception of the reliability of our systems. Any scheduled or unscheduled interruption in the ability of users to use our payment systems could result in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues. Almost all internet access in China is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the control and supervision of the MIIT, and we use a limited number of telecommunication service providers to provide us with data communications capacity through local telecommunications lines and internet data centers to host our servers. Internet data centers in China are generally owned by telecommunication service providers with their own broadband networks and are leased to various customers through third party agents. These third party agents negotiate the terms of the leases, enter into lease agreements with end customers, handle customer interactions and manage the data centers on behalf of the data center owners. In the past, we signed data center lease agreements with multiple third party agents. With the expansion of our business, we may be required to purchase more bandwidth and upgrade our technology and infrastructure to keep up with the increasing traffic on our websites and increasing user levels on our platform overall. We cannot assure you that the telecommunications providers whose networks we lease or the third party agents that operate our data centers would be able to accommodate all of our requests for more bandwidth or upgraded infrastructure or network, or that the internet infrastructure and the fixed telecommunications networks in China will be able to support the demands associated with the continued growth in our internet usage. Our users may use our products or services for critical transactions and communications, especially business communications. As a result, any system failures could result in damage to such users' businesses. These users could seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim would likely be time consuming and costly for us to address. We have limited control over the prices of the services provided by telecommunication service providers and may have limited access to alternative networks or services. If the prices we pay for telecommunications and internet services rise significantly, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, if internet access fees or other charges to internet users increase, our user traffic may decline and our business may be harmed. 13 The respective number of our registered user accounts, active users, paying users and unique visitors may overstate the number of unique individuals who register to use our products and services, log on to our platform, purchase virtual items or other products and services on our platform or access Duowan.com, respectively, and may therefore lead to an inaccurate interpretation of our average revenue per paying user metric and of our business operations by our management and by investors, and may affect advertisers' decisions on the amount spent on advertising with us. We do not operate our platform on a real-name basis and therefore we cannot and do not track the number of unique paying users. Instead, we track the number of registered user accounts, active users, paying users and unique visitors. We calculate certain operating metrics in the following ways: (a) the number of registered user accounts is the cumulative number of user accounts at the end of the relevant period that have logged onto our platform at least once after registration, (b) the number of active users is the cumulative number of user accounts at the end of the relevant period that have signed onto our platform at least once during the relevant period, (c) the number of paying users is the cumulative number of registered user accounts that have purchased virtual items or other products and services on our platform at least once during the relevant period, and (d) the number of unique visitors is the number of visits to Duowan.com from specific IP addresses for the relevant period, with each IP address counting as a separate unique visitor. The actual number of unique individual users, however, is likely to be lower than that of registered user accounts, active users, paying users and unique visitors, potentially significantly, for three primary reasons. First, each individual user may register more than once and therefore have more than one account, and sign onto each of these accounts during a given period. For example, a user may (a) create separate accounts for community and personal use and log onto each account at different times for different activities or (b) if he or she lost his or her original username or password, he or she can simply register again and create an additional account. Second, we experience irregular registration activities such as the creation of a significant number of improper user accounts by a limited number of individuals, which may be in violation of our policies, including for the purpose of clogging our network or posting spam to our channels. We believe that some of these accounts may also be created for specific purposes such as to increase the number of votes for certain performers in various contests, but the number of registered user accounts, paying users and active users do not exclude user accounts created for such purposes. We have limited ability to validate or confirm the accuracy of information provided during the user registration process to ascertain whether a new user account created was actually created by an existing user who is registering duplicative accounts. Third, each individual user may access Duowan.com from more than one IP address; although subsequent visits from the same IP address do not add to our total unique visitors count, each new IP address used by an individual would be counted as a different unique visitor to Duowan.com. For example, a user would be counted as a unique visitor three times if he or she accessed Duowan.com from the user's home computer, office computer and mobile phone. Thus, the respective number of our registered user accounts, active users, paying users and unique visitors may overstate the number of unique individuals who register on our platform, sign onto our platform, purchase virtual items or other products and services on our platform and access Duowan.com, respectively which may lead to an inaccurate interpretation of our average revenue per paying user metric. In addition, we may be unable to track whether we are successfully converting registered users or active users into paying users since we do not track the number of unique individuals or operate our platform on a real-name basis. If the growth in the number of our registered user accounts, active users, paying users or unique visitors is lower than the actual growth in the number of unique individual registered, active or paying users or unique visitors, our user engagement level, sales of IVAS and our business may not grow as quickly as we expect, and advertisers may reduce the amount spent on advertising with us, which may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, such overstatement may cause inaccurate evaluation of our business operations by our management and by investors, which may also materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are unable to continue to successfully capture and retain the growing number of users that access internet services through mobile devices or successfully monetize mobile users, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. An increasing number of users are accessing our platform through mobile devices. For example, the number of downloads for Mobile YY, our music and entertainment application, had increased by 91.8% from 51.9 million in 2013 to 99.6 million in 2014. Mobile YY does not require users to log in to their user accounts to use its general features of listening to or watching different types of performances, but requires users to log in to their user accounts to access features that involve active user participation, including chatting and sending virtual flowers to performers free of charge. The number of monthly active users in Mobile YY increased by 80.1% from 16.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 to 30.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2014. An important element of our strategy is to continue to develop enhanced features for Mobile YY and to develop dedicated mobile applications for each part of our business to capture a greater share of the growing number of users that access internet services such as ours through mobile devices, which we expect to consume considerable resources. For example, in September 2014, we upgraded Mobile YY with a number of new features that we believe contributed to the increase in Mobile YY user numbers and revenue, but which also led to a significant increase in research and development expenses for the year. 14 As new laptops, mobile devices and operating systems are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing and updating versions of our products and services for use on these devices and operating systems, and we have devoted, and expect to continue to devote, significant resources to create, support and maintain these services. Devices providing access to our products and services are not manufactured and sold by us, and we cannot assure you that the companies manufacturing or selling these devices would always ensure that their devices perform reliably and are maximally compatible with our systems. Any faulty connection between these devices and our products and services may result in consumer dissatisfaction with us, which could damage our brand and have a material and adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, the lower resolution, functionality and memory associated with some mobile devices make the use of our products and services through such devices more difficult and the versions of our products and services we develop for these devices may fail to attract users. Manufacturers or distributors may establish unique technical standards for their devices and, as a result, our mobile applications may not work or be viewable on these devices. Furthermore, new social platforms or services may emerge which are specifically created to function on mobile operating systems, as compared to our platform that was originally designed to be accessed from PCs, and such new entrants may operate more effectively on mobile devices than our mobile applications do. If we are unable to attract and retain the increasing number of mobile users, or if we are slower than our competitors in developing attractive services adaptable for mobile devices, we may fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market or may lose existing users. In addition, even if we are able to retain the increasing number of mobile users, we may not be able to successfully monetize them in the future. For example, because of the inherent limitations of mobile devices, such as a smaller display screen space as compared to PCs, we may not be able to provide as many kinds of virtual items on our mobile applications as we can on YY Client, which may limit the monetization potential of mobile users. Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Growth in the use of mobile devices, where our ability to monetize is unproven, as a substitute for the use of YY platform on PCs may negatively affect our revenues and financial results. Although we believe that users are unlikely to entirely migrate to mobile channel and cease to use YY through PCs and that most of our mobile users also access our YY platform through PCs, we cannot assure you that the increasing usage of mobile channel will not cause our users to cease accessing the YY platform from PCs. If a significant number of users migrate to mobile channel as a substitute for accessing the YY platform through PCs, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be negatively affected. Concerns about collection and use of personal data could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our products and services, which could lead to lower advertising revenues or lower IVAS revenues. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. We apply strict management and protection for any information provided by users and, under our privacy policy, without our users' prior consent, we will not provide any of our users' personal information to any unrelated third party. While we strive to comply with our privacy guidelines as well as all applicable data protection laws and regulations, any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, and could damage our reputation. User and regulatory attitudes towards privacy are evolving, and future regulatory or user concerns about the extent to which personal information is used or shared with advertisers or others may adversely affect our ability to share certain data with advertisers, which may limit certain methods of targeted advertising. Concerns about the security of personal data could also lead to a decline in general internet usage, which could lead to lower registered, active or paying user numbers on our platform. For example, if the PRC government authorities require real-name registration for YY Client users, the growth of our user numbers may slow and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. See "—Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure and Our Industry—We may be adversely affected by the complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of internet business and companies." A significant reduction in registered, active or paying user numbers could lead to lower advertising revenues or lower IVAS revenues, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The security of operations of, and fees charged by, third party online payment platforms may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Currently, we sell all of our IVAS to our users through third party online payment systems. In the year ended December 31, 2014, 96.0% of our total net revenues were derived from IVAS. We expect that an increasing amount of our sales will be conducted over the internet as a result of the growing use of online payment systems. In all these online payment transactions, secured transmission of confidential information such as customers' credit card numbers and personal information over public networks is essential to maintain consumer confidence. 15 We do not have control over the security measures of our third party online payment vendors, and security breaches of the online payment systems that we use could expose us to litigation and possible liability for failing to secure confidential customer information and could, among other things, damage our reputation and the perceived security of all of the online payment systems that we use. If a well-publicized internet or mobile network security breach were to occur, users concerned about the security of their online financial transactions may become reluctant to purchase our virtual items even if the publicized breach did not involve payment systems or methods used by us. In addition, there may be billing software errors that would damage customer confidence in these online payment systems. If any of the above were to occur and damage our reputation or the perceived security of the online payment systems we use, we may lose paying users and users may be discouraged from purchasing our IVAS, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, there are currently only a limited number of third party online payment systems in China. If any of these major payment systems decides to significantly increase the percentage they charge us for using their payment systems for our virtual items and other services, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our core values of focusing on user experience and satisfaction first and acting for the long-term may conflict with the short-term operating results of our business, and also negatively impact our relationships with advertisers or other third parties. One of our core values is to focus on user experience and satisfaction, which we believe is essential to our success and serves the best, long-term interests of our company and our shareholders. Therefore, we have made, and may make in the future, significant investments or changes in strategy that we think will benefit our users, even if our decision negatively impacts our operating results in the short-term. For example, in order to provide users of YY Client with uninterrupted entertainment options, we do not place significant advertising on YY Client. While this decision adversely affects our operating results in the short-term, we believe it enables us to provide higher quality user experience on YY Client, which will help us expand and maintain our current large user base and create better monetizing potential in the long-term. In addition, this philosophy of putting our users first may also negatively impact our relationships with advertisers or other third parties, and may not result in the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case the success of our business and operating results could be harmed. Trademarks registered, internet search engine keywords purchased and domain names registered by third parties that are similar to our trademarks, brands or websites could cause confusion to our users, divert online customers away from our products and services or harm our reputation. Competitors and other third parties may purchase (a) trademarks that are similar to our trademarks and (b) keywords that are confusingly similar to our brands or websites in internet search engine advertising programs and in the header and text of the resulting sponsored links or advertisements in order to divert potential customers from us to their websites. Preventing such unauthorized use is inherently difficult. If we are unable to prevent such unauthorized use, competitors and other third parties may continue to drive potential online customers away from our platform to competing, irrelevant or potentially offensive platforms, which could harm our reputation and cause us to lose revenue. 16 We may be held liable for information or content displayed on, retrieved from or linked to our platform, or distributed to our users, and PRC authorities may impose legal sanctions on us, including, in serious cases, suspending or revoking the licenses necessary to operate our platform. Our real-time interactive social platform enables users to exchange information, generate content, advertise products and services, conduct business and engage in various other online activities. However, our platform does not require real-name registration by our users and because a majority of the communications on our platform is conducted in real time, we are unable to verify the sources of all information posted thereon or examine the content generated by users before they are posted. Therefore, it is possible that users may engage in illegal, obscene or incendiary conversations or activities, including the publishing of inappropriate or illegal content that may be deemed unlawful under PRC laws and regulations on our platform. These issues exist on YY Client, YY.com, Duowan.com and 100.com. If any content on our platform is deemed illegal, obscene or incendiary, or if appropriate licenses and third party consents have not been obtained, claims may be brought against us for defamation, libel, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement, other unlawful activities or other theories and claims based on the nature and content of the information delivered on or otherwise accessed through our platforms. For example, we have occasionally received fines for certain inappropriate materials placed by third parties on our platform, and may be subject to similar fines and penalties in the future. We also may face liability for copyright or trademark infringement, fraud, and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials that are delivered, shared or otherwise accessed through or published on our platform. Defending any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources. In addition, if they find that we have not adequately managed the content on our platform, PRC authorities may impose legal sanctions on us, including, in serious cases, suspending or revoking the licenses necessary to operate our platform. See "Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation—Information Security and Censorship" and "Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation—Intellectual Property Rights." We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims or other allegations, which could result in our payment of substantial damages, penalties and fines, removal of relevant content from our website or seeking license arrangements which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Third party owners or right holders of technology patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and website content may assert intellectual property infringement or other claims against us. In addition, content generated through our platform, including real-time content, may also potentially cause disputes regarding content ownership or intellectual property. For example, we could face copyright infringement claims with respect to songs performed live, recorded or made accessible on our music and entertainment platform, and online games being streamed live, recorded or made accessible on our live game broadcasting platform. We generated approximately 57.3% and 4.2% of our total net revenues in 2014 from online music and entertainment and live game broadcasting, respectively. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related industries, particularly in China, are uncertain and still evolving. As we face increasing competition and as litigation becomes a more common way to resolve disputes in China, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. For example, Guangzhou NetEase Computer System Co., Ltd. has initiated a lawsuit against us in Guangzhou in December 2014, claiming the infringement of its rights of reproduction concerning the online game of Fantasy Westward Journey in the amount of RMB100 million. Although we believe that the claim is unjustified and commercially motivated, if the outcome of the proceeding is unfavourable to us, we may suffer considerable damage to our financial position and reputation. Under relevant PRC laws and regulations, online service providers which provide storage space for users to upload works or links to other services or content could be held liable for copyright infringement under various circumstances, including situations where an online service provider knows or should reasonably have known that the relevant content uploaded or linked to on its platform infringes the copyrights of others and the provider realizes economic benefits from such infringement activities. The "knows or should reasonably have known" element would be fulfilled under some statutorily specified circumstances. For example, online service providers are subject to liability if they fail to take necessary measures, such as deletion, blocking or disconnection, after receiving notification from the legal right holders. In particular, there have been cases in China in which the courts have found an online service provider to be liable for the copyrighted content posted by users which were accessible and stored on such provider's servers. On the other hand, to our knowledge, there is currently no precedent or settled court practice which provides clear guidance as to whether or to what extent a real-time online platform such as YY would be held liable for the unauthorized posting or live performances of copyrighted content by our users. See "Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation—Intellectual Property Rights." We have implemented procedures to reduce the likelihood that we may use, develop or make available any content or applications without the proper licenses or necessary third party consents; such procedures include requiring performers, channel owners and users to acknowledge and agree that they would not perform or upload copyrighted content without proper authorization and that they will indemnify us for any relevant copyright infringement claims. However, these procedures may not be effective in preventing unauthorized posting or use of copyrighted content on our platform or the infringement of other third party rights. Specifically, such acknowledgments and agreements by performers, channel owners and users are not enforceable against third parties who may nevertheless file claims of copyright infringement against us. Furthermore, individual performers or channel owners who generate content that may infringe on copyrights of third parties on our platform may not be easily traceable, if at all, by a plaintiff who may then choose to file a claim against us, and these individual performers and channel owners may not have resources to fully indemnify us, if at all, for any such claims. In addition, we have entered into revenue-sharing arrangements in the form of direct or indirect employment agreements with some of the popular singers, performers or channel owners on our platform, and we cannot assure you that PRC courts will not view these singers, performers or channel owners as our employees or agents, deem us to have control over their activities on our platform and the content they upload or otherwise make available on our platform, determine that we have knowingly uploaded such infringing content on our platform and hold us directly liable for their infringement activities on our platform. Separately, as our business expands, the cost of carrying out these procedures and obtaining authorization and licenses for the growing content on our platform may increase, which may potentially have material and adverse effects on our results of operations. 17 Although we have not been subject to claims or lawsuits outside China, we cannot assure you that we will not become subject to intellectual property laws in other jurisdictions, such as the United States, by virtue of our ADSs being listed on the Nasdaq Global Market, the ability of users to access our platform in the United States and other jurisdictions, the performance of songs and other content which are subject to copyright and other intellectual property laws of countries outside China, including the United States, the ownership of our ADSs by investors in the United States and other jurisdictions, or the extraterritorial application of foreign law by foreign courts or otherwise. In addition, as a publicly listed company, we may be exposed to increased risk of litigation. If an infringement claim brought against us in China, the United States or any other jurisdiction is successful, we may be required to pay substantial statutory penalties or other damages and fines, remove relevant content from our platform or enter into license agreements which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Litigation or other claims against us also subject us to adverse publicity which could harm our reputation and affect our ability to attract and retain users, including channel owners, singers and other performers, which could materially and adversely affect the popularity of our platform and therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully halt the operations of platforms that aggregate our data as well as data from other companies, including social networks, or "copycat" platforms that have misappropriated our data in the past or may misappropriate our data in the future. Those platforms may also lure away some of our users or advertisers or reduce our market share, causing material and adverse effects on our business operations. From time to time, third parties have misappropriated our data through scraping our platform, robots or other means and aggregated this data on their platforms with data from other companies. In addition, "copycat" platforms or client applications have misappropriated data on our platform, implanted Trojan viruses in user PCs to steal user data from YY Client and attempted to imitate our brand or the functionality of our platform. When we became aware of such platforms, we employed technological and legal measures in an attempt to halt their operations. However, we may not be able to detect all such platforms in a timely manner and, even if we could, technological and legal measures may be insufficient to stop their operations. In those cases, our available remedies may not be adequate to protect us against such platforms. Regardless of whether we can successfully enforce our rights against these platforms, any measures that we may take could require significant financial or other resources from us. Those platforms may also lure away some of our users or advertisers or reduce our market share, causing material and adverse effects to our business operations. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could harm our business and competitive position. We regard our trademarks, service marks, patents, domain names, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others to protect our proprietary rights. As of December 31, 2014, we had registered 137 domain names, including YY.com, Duowan.com, 100.com, Chinaduo.com and Edu24oL.com, 123 software copyrights, 12 patents and 209 trademarks and service marks in China and overseas. In addition, as of December 31, 2014, we had filed 215 patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technologies and 277 trademark applications in China and overseas. 18 It is often difficult to create and enforce intellectual property rights in China. Patents, trademarks and service marks may also be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. Trade secrets are difficult to protect, and our trade secrets may be leaked or otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. Confidentiality agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Even where adequate, relevant laws exist in China, it may not be possible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of such laws, or to obtain enforcement of a court judgment or an arbitration award delivered in another jurisdiction, and accordingly, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights or enforce agreements in China. Policing any unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly and the steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our technologies. Given the potential cost, effort, risks and downsides of obtaining patent protection, in some cases we have not and do not plan to apply for patents or other forms of formal intellectual property protection for certain key technologies. If some of these technologies are later proven to be important to our business and are used by third parties without our authorization, especially for commercial purposes, our business and competitive position may be harmed. As our patents may expire and may not be extended, our patent applications may not be granted and our patent rights may be contested, circumvented, invalidated or limited in scope, our patent rights may not protect us effectively. In particular, we may not be able to prevent others from developing or exploiting competing technologies, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. In China, the valid period of utility model patent right or design patent right is ten years and is not extendable. Currently, we have patent applications pending in China, but we cannot assure you that we will be granted patents pursuant to our pending applications. Even if our patent applications succeed and we are issued patents in accordance with them, it is still uncertain whether these patents will be contested, circumvented or invalidated in the future. The rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages. Further, the claims under any patents that issue from our patent applications may not be broad enough to prevent others from developing technologies that are similar or that achieve results similar to ours. It is also possible that the intellectual property rights of others will bar us from licensing and from exploiting any patents that issue from our pending applications. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others exist in the fields in which we have developed and are developing our technology. These patents and patent applications might have priority over our patent applications and could subject our patent applications to invalidation. Finally, in addition to those who may claim priority, any of our existing or pending patents may also be challenged by others on the basis that they are otherwise invalid or unenforceable. If we fail to maintain and enhance our brands, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands is of significant importance to the success of our business. Well-recognized brands are important to increasing the number of users and the level of engagement of our users and enhancing our attractiveness to advertisers. Since we operate in a highly competitive market, brand maintenance and enhancement directly affect our ability to maintain our market position. Although we have developed YY mostly through word of mouth referrals, as we expand, we may conduct various marketing and brand promotion activities using various methods to continue promoting our brands. We cannot assure you, however, that these activities will be successful or that we will be able to achieve the brand promotion effect we expect. In addition, any negative publicity in relation to our products or services, regardless of its veracity, could harm our brands and reputation. We have sometimes received, and expect to continue to receive, complaints from users regarding the quality of the products and services we offer. Negative publicity or public complaints by users may harm our reputation and affect our ability to attract new users and retain existing users. If our users' complaints are not addressed to their satisfaction, our reputation and our market position could be significantly harmed, which may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. 19 Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and key employees, and our business operations may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued efforts of our executive officers and key employees. If one or more of our executive officers or key employees were unable or unwilling to continue their services with us, we might not be able to replace them easily, in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, our executive officers and key employees hold the equity interests in Beijing Tuda Science and Technology Co., Ltd., or Beijing Tuda, and Guangzhou Huaduo Network Technology Co., Ltd., or Guangzhou Huaduo, our PRC consolidated affiliated entities. In particular, Mr. David Xueling Li, our co-founder, chief executive officer and director, and Mr. Jin Cao, our executive vice president, own 97.7% and 0.8% of Beijing Tuda's equity interests, respectively. Messrs. Li and Cao and Beijing Tuda also own approximately 0.5%, 0.02% and 99.0% of Guangzhou Huaduo's equity interests, respectively, with 0.44% owned by Mr. Jun Lei, our co-founder and chairman. If any of these executive officers and key employees terminates their services with us, we have the contractual right to appoint designees to hold the PRC consolidated affiliated entities' equity interests. However, our business may be severely disrupted, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected and we may incur additional expenses to recruit, train and retain personnel. If any of our executive officers or key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, know-how and key professionals and staff members. Each of our executive officers and key employees has entered into an employment agreement and a non-compete agreement with us. However, as advised by our PRC counsel, Fangda Partners, certain provisions under the non-compete agreement may not be deemed valid or enforceable under PRC laws. If any dispute arises between our executive officers and key employees and us, we cannot assure you that we would be able to enforce these non-compete agreements in China, where these executive officers reside, in light of uncertainties with China's legal system. See "—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us." If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, particularly management, technical and marketing personnel with expertise in the internet industry; inability to do so may materially and adversely affect our business. Since the internet industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain qualified staff or other highly skilled employees. As our company is relatively young, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the growing demands of our business which may materially and adversely affect our ability to grow our business and hence our results of operations. Our results of operations are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations due to seasonality. We experience seasonality in our business, reflecting seasonal fluctuations in internet usage. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. For example, online user numbers tend to be lower during school holidays and certain parts of the school year, and advertising revenues tend to be lower during the Chinese New Year season, which negatively affects our cash flow for those periods. We may also experience a reduction in active users in the third quarter of each year because a significant portion of our users are students, and as the new school year begins, student access to computers and the internet are affected. Internet usage and the rate of internet growth may also be expected to decline during the summer school holidays as some students lose regular internet access. Furthermore, the number of paying users of our online music and entertainment platform correlates with the marketing campaigns and promotional activities we conduct which coincide with popular western or Chinese festivals celebrated by young Chinese people, many of which are in the fourth quarter and ending with the Chinese New Year holidays which typically fall in the first quarter. As a result, our operating results in future quarters or years may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such event, the trading price of our ADSs would likely be materially and adversely affected. See "Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Seasonality" for additional details regarding the effects of seasonality on our cash flow, operating performance and financial results. Our business is sensitive to global economic conditions. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or Chinese economy could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The global financial markets have experienced significant disruptions since 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011, the slowdown of the Chinese economy since 2012, the end of quantitative easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve and the economic slowdown in Europe in 2014. It is unclear whether the European sovereign debt crisis/ economic slowdown will be contained and whether the Chinese economy will resume its high growth rate. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world's leading economies, including China's. There have also been concerns over political situations in different parts of the world, including unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in volatility in oil and other markets. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Online music and entertainment, along with the online gaming and online advertising industries, which account for a significant portion of our revenues, may be affected by economic downturns. During a prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy, our products and services may be viewed as discretionary by our users, who may choose to discontinue or reduce spending on such products and services during an economic downturn, there may be a reduced amount of online advertising, and our ability to retain existing users and increase new users will be adversely affected. Thus, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be affected by the macroeconomic environment in China. 20 Any prolonged slowdown in the global or Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. Future strategic alliances or acquisitions may have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations. We may enter into strategic alliances, including joint ventures or minority equity investments, with various third parties to further our business purpose from time to time. These alliances could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information, non-performance by the third party and increased expenses in establishing new strategic alliances, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business. We may have limited ability to monitor or control the actions of these third parties and, to the extent any of these strategic third parties suffers negative publicity or harm to their reputation from events relating to their business, we may also suffer negative publicity or harm to our reputation by virtue of our association with any such third party. In addition, although we have no current acquisition plans, if appropriate opportunities arise, we may acquire additional assets, products, technologies or businesses that are complementary to our existing business. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2014, we acquired Beijing Huanqiu Xingxue Technology Development Co., Ltd. and Beijing Huanqiu Chuangzhi Software Co., Ltd., which operate Edu24oL.com, an online education website, and we believe such acquisition would effectively supplement our online education business. Past and future acquisitions and the subsequent integration of new assets and businesses into our own require significant attention from our management and could result in a diversion of resources from our existing business, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business operations. Acquired assets or businesses may not generate the financial results we expect. Acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the occurrence of significant goodwill impairment charges, amortization expenses for other intangible assets and exposure to potential unknown liabilities of the acquired business. Moreover, the costs of identifying and consummating acquisitions may be significant. In addition to possible shareholders' approval, we may also have to obtain approvals and licenses from relevant government authorities for the acquisitions and to comply with any applicable PRC laws and regulations, which could result in increased delay and costs. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence in our company and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring most public companies to include a management report on such company's internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management's assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting. In addition, when a company meets the SEC's criteria, an independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting. Our management and independent registered public accounting firm have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2014. However, we cannot assure you that in the future our management or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify material weaknesses during the Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act audit process or for other reasons. In addition, because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or should we be unable to prevent or detect material misstatements due to error or fraud on a timely basis, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business, results of operations and negatively impact the market price of our ADSs, and harm our reputation. Furthermore, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur considerable costs and to use significant management time and the other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 21 Some of our users may make sales or purchases through unauthorized third party platforms of virtual items we offer for free on our platform, which may affect our revenue-generating opportunities and exert downward pressure on the prices we charge for our virtual items. We, from time to time, offer virtual items free of charge to attract users or encourage user participation in channels. Some of our users may sell or purchase such free virtual items through unauthorized third party sellers in exchange for real currency. For example, fans of a performer may pay other users to send flowers or gifts the latter have accumulated on our platform to the performer, in order to show support and raise the popularity ranking of the performer of their choice. These unauthorized transactions are usually arranged on third party platforms which we do not and are unable to track or monitor. Accordingly, these unauthorized purchases and sales from third party sellers may affect our revenue-generating opportunities and may impede our revenue and profit growth by, among other things, reducing the revenues we could have generated and exerting downward pressure on the prices we charge for our virtual items. We have limited business insurance coverage, so that any uninsured occurrence of business disruption may result in substantial costs to us and the diversion of our resources, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Insurance companies in China currently do not offer as extensive an array of insurance products as insurance companies do in more developed economies. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance to cover our operations. We have determined that the costs of insuring for these risks and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. Any uninsured occurrence may disrupt our business operations, require us to incur substantial costs and divert our resources, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure and Our Industry If the PRC government finds that the structure we have adopted for our business operations does not comply with PRC laws and regulations, or if these laws or regulations or interpretations of existing laws or regulations change in the future, we could be subject to severe penalties, including the shutting down of our platform and our business operations. Foreign ownership of internet-based businesses is subject to significant restrictions under current PRC laws and regulations. The PRC government regulates internet access, the distribution of online information and the conduct of online commerce through strict business licensing requirements and other government regulations. These laws and regulations also limit foreign ownership in PRC companies that provide internet information distribution services. Specifically, foreign ownership in an internet information provider or other value-added telecommunication service providers may not exceed 50%. In addition, according to the Several Opinions on the Introduction of Foreign Investment in the Cultural Industry promulgated by the Ministry of Culture, or the MOC, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, or the SARFT, the General Administration of Press and Publication, or the GAPP, currently known as the State Administration of Press Publication, Radio, Film and Television after combination of SARFT and GAPP, the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, in July 2005, foreign investors are prohibited from investing in or operating, among others, any internet cultural operating entities and from engaging in the business of transmitting audio-visual programs through information networks. We are a Cayman Islands company and our PRC subsidiaries, Guangzhou Huanju Shidai Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Guangzhou Huanju Shidai, Huanju Shidai Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd., or Beijing Huanju Shidai and Zhuhai Huanju Shidai Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Zhuhai Huanju Shidai, are each considered a wholly foreign owned enterprise. We conduct our operations in China primarily through a series of contractual arrangements entered into among our PRC subsidiary, Beijing Huanju Shidai, our PRC consolidated affiliated entities, Guangzhou Huaduo and Beijing Tuda, and Guangzhou Huaduo and Beijing Tuda's shareholders. As a result of these contractual arrangements, we exert control over our PRC consolidated affiliated entities and consolidate each of their operating results in our financial statements under U.S. GAAP. All of the equity (net assets) or deficit (net liabilities) and net income (loss) of the consolidated affiliated entities are attributed to us. For a detailed description of these contractual arrangements, see "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party—Contractual Arrangements with Beijing Tuda." 22 On September 28, 2009, the GAPP, the National Copyright Administration and the National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications, jointly issued a Notice on Further Strengthening the Administration of Pre-examination and Approval of Online Games and the Examination and Approval of Imported Online Games, or Circular 13. Circular 13 restates that foreign investors are not permitted to invest in online game-operating businesses in China via wholly owned, equity joint venture or cooperative joint venture investments and expressly prohibits foreign investors from gaining control over or participating in domestic online game operators through indirect ways such as establishing other joint venture companies or entering into contractual or technical arrangements such as the variable interest entity structural arrangements we adopted for our consolidated affiliated entities. We are not aware of any companies that have adopted a corporate structure that is the same as or similar to ours having been penalized or terminated under Circular 13 since the effective date of the circular. Furthermore, the enforcement of Circular 13 is still subject to substantial uncertainty, including possible subsequent joint actions by relevant authorities in charge, such as the MOC. The Regulation on Three Provisions stipulates that the MOC is authorized to regulate the online game industry, while the GAPP is authorized to approve the publication of online games before their launch on the internet. The Interpretation on Three Provisions further provides that once an online game is launched on the internet, it will be completely under the regulation of the MOC, and that if an online game is launched on the internet without obtaining prior approval from the GAPP, the MOC, instead of the GAPP, is directly responsible for investigating the game. In the event that we, our PRC subsidiaries or PRC consolidated affiliated entities are found to be in violation of the prohibition under Circular 13, the GAPP, in conjunction with the relevant regulatory authorities in charge, may impose applicable penalties, which in the most serious cases may include suspension or revocation of relevant licenses and registrations. In addition, various media sources have reported that the CSRC prepared a report proposing pre-approval by a competent central government authority of offshore listings by China-based companies with variable interest entity structures, such as ours, that operate in industry sectors subject to foreign investment restrictions. However, it is unclear whether the CSRC officially issued or submitted such a report to a higher level government authority or what any such report provides. Furthermore, on January 19, 2015, the MOFCOM issued a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law, which may place restrictions on variable interest entity structures adopted by us, but the enactment timetable, interpretation, implementation and influence thereof remain unclear. See "—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations." Based on understanding of current PRC laws, rules and regulations of our PRC legal counsel, Fangda Partners, our current ownership structure for our business operations, the ownership structure of our PRC subsidiaries and our PRC consolidated affiliated entities, the contractual arrangements among our PRC subsidiaries, our PRC consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders, as described in this annual report on Form 20-F, are in compliance with existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. However, we were further advised by Fangda Partners that there is substantial uncertainty regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations and these laws or regulations or interpretations of these laws or regulations may change in the future. Furthermore, the relevant government authorities have broad discretion in interpreting these laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that PRC government authorities will not ultimately take a view contrary to the opinion of our PRC legal counsel. If our ownership structure, contractual arrangements and businesses of our company, our PRC subsidiaries or our PRC consolidated affiliated entities are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant governmental authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including levying fines, confiscating our income or the income of our PRC subsidiaries or PRC consolidated affiliated entities, revoking or suspending the business licenses or operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries or PRC consolidated affiliated entities, shutting down our servers or blocking our platform, discontinuing or placing restrictions or onerous conditions on our operations, requiring us to discontinue our operations, requiring us to undergo a costly and disruptive restructuring, restricting or prohibiting our use of proceeds from our initial public offering to finance our business and operations in China, and taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations and severely damage our reputation, which would in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the imposition of any of these penalties causes us to lose the rights to direct the activities of our PRC consolidated affiliated entities or our right to receive their economic benefits, we would no longer be able to consolidate such entities. Our PRC consolidated affiliated entities contributed substantially all of our consolidated net revenues in the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014. 23 We rely on contractual arrangements with our PRC consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders for the operation of our business, which may not be as effective as direct ownership. If our PRC consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our rights, which may be time-consuming, unpredictable, expensive and damaging to our operations and reputation. Because of PRC restrictions on foreign ownership of internet-based businesses in China, we depend on contractual arrangements with our PRC consolidated affiliated entities in which we have no ownership interest to conduct our business. These contractual arrangements are intended to provide us with effective control over these entities and allow us to obtain economic benefits from them. Our PRC consolidated affiliated entities are owned directly by Messrs. David Xueling Li, Jun Lei, Tony Bin Zhao and Jin Cao, among whom certain shareholders are our directors, key executive officers and employees. For additional details on these ownership interests, see "—Risks Related to Our Business—Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and key employees, and our business operations may be severely disrupted if we lose their services" and "Item 4. Information on the Company—A. History and Development of the Company." However, these contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control as direct ownership. For example, each of our PRC consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders could breach their contractual arrangements with us by, among other things, failing to operate our business in an acceptable manner or taking other actions that are detrimental to our interests. If we were the controlling shareholder of these PRC consolidated affiliated entities with direct ownership, we would be able to exercise our rights as shareholders to effect changes to their board of directors, which in turn could implement changes at the management and operational level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if our PRC consolidated affiliated entities or their shareholders fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including contract remedies, which may not be sufficient or effective. In particular, the contractual arrangements provide that any dispute arising from these arrangements will be submitted to the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission for arbitration in Beijing, the ruling of which will be final and binding. The legal framework and system in China, particularly those relating to arbitration proceedings, is not as developed as other jurisdictions such as the United States. As a result, significant uncertainties relating to the enforcement of legal rights through arbitration, litigation and other legal proceedings remain in China, which could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements and exert effective control over our consolidated affiliated entities. If we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, or if we suffer significant delay or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these contractual arrangements, our business and operations could be severely disrupted, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and damage our reputation. See "—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us." Our existing shareholders have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders, which may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their securities. As of March 31, 2015, our management group—including Mr. David Xueling Li, our co-founder, chief executive officer and director, Mr. Jun Lei, our co-founder and chairman, Mr. Jin Cao, an executive vice president of our company, and Mr. Rongjie Dong, another executive vice president,—and their respective affiliates, beneficially own an aggregate of 37.7% of our outstanding shares and 75.9% of the total voting power. Messrs. Li, Lei and Cao and Beijing Tuda together hold 99.96% of the equity interest in Guangzhou Huaduo and Messrs. Li and Cao together hold 98.5% of the equity interest in Beijing Tuda. Guangzhou Huaduo and Beijing Tuda are our variable interest entities. Our management group has substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of any contemplated sale of our company and may reduce the price of our ADSs. In addition, Messrs. Li, Dong and Cao could violate the terms of their non-compete or employment agreements with us or their legal duties by diverting business opportunities from us, resulting in our loss of corporate opportunities. These actions may take place even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. Additionally, Mr. Jun Lei, our co-founder, chairman and shareholder who owned 17.9% of our outstanding shares as of March 31, 2015, is in the business of making investments in internet companies in China. Mr. Lei currently holds direct and indirect interests in our direct competitor, iSpeak, and other entities which may have businesses that compete with ours. iSpeak is owned by Mr. Lei in part through Kingsoft Corporation Limited, or Kingsoft, which is engaged in the research, development operation and distribution of online games, mobile games, casual game services and internet software. He may, in the future, acquire additional interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with some of our lines of business or that are our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, Mr. Lei, whether through Kingsoft or otherwise, may pursue acquisitions or make further investments in our industries which may conflict with our interests. Although we adopted a code of business conduct and ethics to help restrict conflicts of interest involving directors and officers, any violation of this code by our existing officers or directors such as Mr. Lei may materially and adversely affect our business operations. For more information regarding the beneficial ownership of our company by our principal shareholders, see "Item 6. Directors, Senior management and Employees—E. Share Ownership." 24 We may lose the ability to use and enjoy assets held by our PRC consolidated affiliated entities that are important to the operation of our business if such entities go bankrupt or become subject to a dissolution or liquidation proceeding. As part of our contractual arrangements with our PRC consolidated affiliated entities, Guangzhou Huaduo and Beijing Tuda, such entities hold certain assets, such as patents for the proprietary technology that are essential to the operations of our platform and important to the operation of our business. If either Guangzhou Huaduo or Beijing Tuda goes bankrupt and all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Guangzhou Huaduo or Beijing Tuda undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, the unrelated third party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to enforce the equity pledge agreements between us and our PRC variable interest entities' shareholders may be subject to limitations based on PRC laws and regulations. Pursuant to the equity interest pledge agreements between Beijing Huanju Shidai, our wholly owned subsidiary in China, and the shareholders of Guangzhou Huaduo and Beijing Tuda, our variable interest entities, or VIEs, each shareholders of each variable interest entities agrees to pledge its equity interests in the VIE to our subsidiary to secure the relevant VIE's performance of their obligations under the relevant contractual arrangements. The equity interest pledges of shareholders of VIEs under these equity pledge agreements have been registered with the relevant local branch of the SAIC. In addition, in the registration forms of the local branch of State Administration for Industry and Commerce for the pledges over the equity interests under the equity interest pledge agreements, the aggregate amount of registered equity interests pledged to Beijing Huanju Shidai represents 100% of the registered capital of Guangzhou Huaduo and Beijing Tuda. The equity interest pledge agreements with each of the VIEs' shareholders provide that the pledged equity interest shall constitute continuing security for any and all of the indebtedness, obligations and liabilities under all of the principal service agreements and the scope of pledge shall not be limited by the amount of the registered capital of that VIE. However, it is possible that a PRC court may take the position that the amount listed on the equity pledge registration forms represents the full amount of the collateral that has been registered and perfected. If this is the case, the obligations that are supposed to be secured in the equity interest pledge agreements in excess of the amount listed on the equity pledge registration forms could be determined by the PRC court as unsecured debt, which takes last priority among creditors. Our contractual arrangements with our PRC consolidated affiliated entities may result in adverse tax consequences to us. As a result of our corporate structure and the contractual arrangements among our PRC subsidiaries, our PRC consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders, we are effectively subject to PRC turnover tax on revenues generated by our subsidiaries from our contractual arrangements with our PRC consolidated affiliated entities. Such tax generally includes the PRC value added tax ("VAT") at a rate of 6% or 17% along with related surcharges. The applicable turnover tax is determined by the nature of the transaction generating the revenues subject to taxation. The PRC enterprise income tax law requires every enterprise in China to submit its annual enterprise income tax return together with a report on transactions with its affiliates or related parties to the relevant tax authorities. These transactions may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities within ten years after the taxable year during which the transactions are conducted. We may be subject to adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities were to determine that the contracts between us and our PRC consolidated affiliated entities were not on an arm's length basis and therefore constitute a favorable transfer pricing arrangements. If this occurs, the PRC tax authorities could request that either of our PRC consolidated affiliated entities adjust its taxable income upward for PRC tax purposes. Such a pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by reducing expense deductions recorded by either PRC consolidated affiliated entities and thereby increasing these entities' tax liabilities, which could subject these entities to late payment fees and other penalties for the underpayment of taxes. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if our PRC consolidated affiliated entities' tax liabilities increase or if it becomes subject to late payment fees or other penalties. 25 If our PRC consolidated affiliated entities fail to obtain and maintain the requisite licenses and approvals required under the complex regulatory environment for internet-based businesses in China, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The internet industry in China is highly regulated. See "Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation." Guangzhou Huaduo, as our PRC consolidated affiliated entity, is required to obtain and maintain applicable licenses or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide its current services. For example, an internet information service provider shall obtain an operating license, or the ICP License, from MIIT or its local counterparts before engaging in any commercial internet information services. An online game operator must also obtain an Internet Culture Operation License from the MOC and an Internet Publishing License from the GAPP to distribute online games, in addition to filing its online games with the GAPP and the MOC. An educational website operator shall obtain approvals from the local education authorities. Prior to July 2010, specific approvals on online bulletin board services were also required for the provision of BBS services. Guangzhou Huaduo has obtained a valid ICP License for provision of internet and mobile network information services, an Internet Culture Operation License for online games and music products, and an Internet Publishing License for publication of online games and mobile phone games. In addition, Guangzhou Huaduo holds a valid License for Online Transmission of Audio-Visual Programs under the business classification of converging and play-on-demand service for certain kinds of internet audio-visual programs—literary, artistic and entertaining—as prescribed in the newly issued provisional categories. On October 8, 2011, Guangzhou Huaduo was granted a License for Production and Operation of Radio and TV Programs, covering the production, reproduction and publication of broadcasting plays, TV dramas, cartoons (excluding production), special subjects, special columns (excluding current political news category) and entertainment programs. On January 17, 2013 and January 16, 2014, we were granted permission by relevant authorities to provide online education content on edu.YY.com and 100.com, respectively. In the fourth quarter of 2014, we acquired Beijing Huanqiu Xingxue Technology Development Co., Ltd., or Beijing Xingxue, and Beijing Huanqiu Chuangzhi Software Co., Ltd., or Beijing Chuangzhi, which operate Edu24oL.com, an online education website that is an online vocational training and language training platform, and Beijing Xingxue holds an ICP License and a Publication Operating License for the operation of Edu24oL.com. These licenses or permits are essential to the operation of our business and are generally subject to annual government review. However, we cannot assure you that we can successfully renew these licenses annually or that these licenses are sufficient to conduct all of our present or future business. As we further develop and expand our video capabilities and functions, we will need to obtain additional qualifications, permits, approvals or licenses. In addition, with respect to specific services offered online, we or the service or content providers may be subject to additional separate qualifications, permits, approvals or licenses. For financial-related content offered on our channels, we are tightening our internal review of the relevant qualifications of the content providers as instructed by the competent authorities, while complying with other statutory requirements. We cannot assure you that we or the service or content providers will be granted such qualifications, permits, approvals or licenses in a timely manner or at all. Prior to the receipt of such qualifications, permits, approvals or licenses, we may be deemed as being in violation of relevant laws or regulations and be subject to penalties. As the internet industry in China is still at a relatively early stage of development, new laws and regulations may be adopted from time to time to address new issues that come to the authorities' attention. In the interpretation and implementation of existing and future laws and regulations governing our business activities, considerable uncertainties still exist. We cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any future laws and regulations or any of the laws and regulations currently in effect due to changes in the relevant authorities' interpretation of these laws and regulations. In addition, we may be required to obtain additional license or approvals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to timely obtain or maintain all the required licenses or approvals or make all the necessary filings in the future. If we fail to obtain or maintain any of the required licenses or approvals or make the necessary filings, we may be subject to various penalties, such as confiscation of the net revenues that were generated through the unlicensed internet activities, the imposition of fines and the discontinuation or restriction of our operations. Any such penalties may disrupt our business operations and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 The shareholders of our PRC variable interest entities may have potential conflicts of interest with us, and if any such conflicts of interest are not resolved in our favor, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Guangzhou Huaduo and Beijing Tuda are our variable interest entities. Messrs. David Xueling Li, Jun Lei, Tony Bin Zhao, Jin Cao and Beijing Tuda, together hold 100% of the equity interest in Guangzhou Huaduo and Messrs. Li, Zhao and Cao together hold 100% of the equity interest in Beijing Tuda. Messrs. Li, Lei and Cao are all senior executives and shareholders of our company, but Mr. Zhao had resigned his position as our director effective as of March 5, 2015, although he remains a shareholder of our company. The interests of Messrs. Li, Lei, Zhao and Cao as the controlling shareholders of the VIEs may differ from the interests of our company as a whole, as what is in the best interests of our VIEs may not be in the best interests of our company. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, Messrs. Li, Lei, Zhao or Cao will act in the best interests of our company or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. In addition, Messrs. Li, Lei, Zhao or Cao may breach or cause Guangzhou Huaduo and Beijing Tuda and their respective subsidiaries to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements with us. Currently, we do not have existing arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest Messrs. Li, Lei, Zhao or Cao may encounter in his capacity as a shareholder or director of our VIEs, on the one hand, and as a beneficial owner or director of our company, on the other hand; provided that we could, at all times, exercise our option under the exclusive option agreement with Messrs. Li, Lei, Zhao and Cao to cause them to transfer all of their equity ownership in Guangzhou Huaduo or Beijing Tuda to a PRC entity or individual designated by us, and this new shareholder of Guangzhou Huaduo or Beijing Tuda could then appoint a new director of Guangzhou Huaduo or Beijing Tuda to replace the existing directors. In addition, if such conflicts of interest arise, Beijing Huanju Shidai, our wholly owned PRC subsidiary, could also, in the capacity of attorney-in-fact for Messrs. Li, Lei, Zhao and Cao as provided under the relevant powers of attorney, directly appoint a new director of Guangzhou Huaduo or Beijing Tuda to replace the existing directors. We rely on Messrs. Li, Lei, Zhao and Cao to comply with the laws of China, which protect contracts and provide that directors and executive officers owe a duty of loyalty to our company and require them to avoid conflicts of interest and not to take advantage of their positions for personal gains. We also rely on Messrs. Li and Lei to abide by the laws of the Cayman Islands, which provide that directors have a duty of care and a duty of loyalty to act honestly in good faith with a view toward our best interests. However, the legal frameworks of China and the Cayman Islands do not provide guidance on resolving conflicts in the event of a conflict with another corporate governance regime. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and Messrs. Li, Lei, Zhao and Cao, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and subject us to substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. Implementation of the new labor laws and regulations in China may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Pursuant to the labor contract law that took effect in January 2008, its implementation rules that took effect in September 2008 and its amendment that took effect in July 2013, employers are subject to stricter requirements in terms of signing labor contracts, minimum wages, paying remuneration, determining the term of employees' probation and unilaterally terminating labor contracts. Due to the limited period of time since its effectiveness, and lack of detailed interpretative rules and uniform implementation practices and possible penalties, it is uncertain as to how they it will affect our current employment policies and practices. Our employment policies and practices may violate the labor contract law or its implementation rules, and we may thus be subject to related penalties, fines or legal fees. Compliance with the labor contract law and its implementation rules may increase our operating expenses, in particular our personnel expenses. In the event that we decide to terminate some of our employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the labor contract law and its implementation rules may also limit our ability to effect those changes in a desirable or cost-effective manner, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. On October 28, 2010, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress promulgated the PRC Social Insurance Law, or the Social Insurance Law, which became effective on July 1, 2011. According to the Social Insurance Law, employees must participate in pension insurance, work-related injury insurance, medical insurance, unemployment insurance and maternity insurance and the employers must, together with their employees or separately, pay the social insurance premiums for such employees. 27 We expect our labor costs to increase due to the implementation of these new laws and regulations. As the interpretation and implementation of these new laws and regulations are still evolving, we cannot assure you that our employment practice will at all times be deemed in full compliance with labor-related laws and regulations in China, which may subject us to labor disputes or government investigations. If we are deemed to have violated relevant labor laws and regulations, we could be required to provide additional compensation to our employees and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Further, labor disputes, work stoppages or slowdowns at our laboratories, patient service centers or any of our clients or suppliers could significantly disrupt our daily operation or our expansion plans and have a material adverse effect on our business. Currently there is no law or regulation specifically governing virtual asset property rights and therefore it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game operators may have for virtual assets. While playing online games or participating on YY Client activities, players acquire and accumulate some virtual assets, such as special equipment and other accessories. Such virtual assets can be important to online game players and have monetary value and, in some cases, are sold for actual money. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, often through unauthorized use of the game account of one user by other users and occasionally through data loss caused by a delay of network service, a network crash or hacking activities. Currently, there is no PRC law or regulation specifically governing virtual asset property rights. As a result, there is uncertainty as to who the legal owner of virtual assets is, whether and how the ownership of virtual assets is protected by law, and whether an operator of online games such as us would have any liability to game players or other interested parties (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) for loss of such virtual assets. Based on recent PRC court judgments, the courts have typically held online game operators liable for losses of virtual assets by game players, and ordered online game operators to return the lost virtual items to game players or pay damages and losses. In case of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by our game players or users and held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our reputation and business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with the laws or regulations governing virtual currency may result in us having to obtain additional approvals or licenses or change our current business model. The issuance and use of "virtual currency" in the PRC has been regulated since 2007 in response to the growth of the online game industry in China. On January 25, 2007, the Ministry of Public Security, the MOC, the MIIT and the GAPP jointly issued a circular regarding online gambling which has implications for the use of virtual currency. To curtail online games that involve online gambling, as well as address concerns that virtual currency could be used for money laundering or illicit trade, the circular (a) prohibits online game operators from charging commissions in the form of virtual currency in relation to winning or losing of games; (b) requires online game operators to impose limits on use of virtual currency in guessing and betting games; (c) bans the conversion of virtual currency into real currency or property; and (d) prohibits services that enable game players to transfer virtual currency to other players. On June 4, 2009, the MOC and the MOFCOM jointly issued a notice regarding strengthening the administration of online game virtual currency, or the Virtual Currency Notice. The MOC issued the Provisional Administrative Measures of Online Games, or the Online Games Measures, on June 3, 2010, which provides, among other things, that virtual currency issued by online game operators may be only used to exchange its own online game products and services and may not be used to pay for the products and services of other entities. We issue virtual currency and prepaid game tokens to game players on our platform for them to purchase various items to be used in online games and channels, including music channels. We are in the process of adjusting the content of our platform but we cannot assure you that our adjustments will be sufficient to comply with the Virtual Currency Notice. Moreover, although we believe we do not offer online game virtual currency transaction services, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view contrary to ours. For example, certain virtual items we issue to users based on in-game milestones they achieve or time spent playing games are transferable and exchangeable for our virtual currency or the other virtual items we issue to users. If the PRC regulatory authorities deem such transfer or exchange to be a virtual currency transaction, then in addition to being deemed to be engaging in the issuance of virtual currency, we may also be deemed to be providing transaction platform services that enable the trading of such virtual currency. Simultaneously engaging in both of these activities is prohibited under the Virtual Currency Notice. In that event, we may be required to cease either our virtual currency issuance activities or such deemed "transaction service" activities and may be subject to certain penalties, including mandatory corrective measures and fines. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 In addition, the Virtual Currency Notice prohibits online game operators from setting game features that involve the direct payment of cash or virtual currency by players for the chance to win virtual items or virtual currency based on random selection through a lucky draw, wager or lottery. The notice also prohibits game operators from issuing currency to game players through means other than purchases with legal currency. It is unclear whether these restrictions would apply to certain aspects of our online games. Although we believe that we have rectified and ceased such prohibited activities and have taken adequate measures to prevent any of the above-mentioned prohibited activities, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view contrary to ours and deem such feature as prohibited by the Virtual Currency Notice, thereby subjecting us to penalties, including mandatory corrective measures and fines. For example, we were previously fined by a local authority in Guangzhou found that our games contained lucky draws. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Non-compliance on the part of third parties with which we conduct business could restrict our ability to maintain or increase our number of users or the level of traffic to our YY platform. Our third party game developers or other business partners may be subject to regulatory penalties or punishments because of their regulatory compliance failures, which may disrupt our business. Although we conduct a rigid review of legal formalities and certifications before entering into contractual relationship with other businesses such as third party game developers and landlords, we cannot be certain whether such third party has or will infringe any third parties' legal rights or violate any regulatory requirements. We regularly identify irregularities or noncompliance in the business practices of any parties with whom we pursue existing or future cooperation and we cannot assure you that any of these irregularities will be corrected in a prompt and proper manner. The legal liabilities and regulatory actions on our commercial partners may affect our business activities and reputation and in turn, our results of operations. For example, according to PRC regulations, all lease agreements are required to be registered with the local housing authorities. We presently lease properties at approximately 19 different locations for daily operations and certain other properties serving as dormitories and canteens in China, and the landlords of some of these properties are still completing the registration of their ownership rights or the registration of our leases with the relevant authorities. Failure to complete these required registrations may expose our landlords, lessors and us to potential monetary fines. Some of our lessors have not provided us with appropriate title certificates, which may adversely affect the validity of the leases if the lessors do not have proper title. We cannot assure you that such certificates or registration will be obtained in a timely manner or at all, and in case of failures, we may be subject to monetary fines, have to relocate our offices and suffer economic losses. We allow providers of some online services, such as online education and financial services, to establish channels on our platform. The online service providers and the producers of content on our platform may be required to meet specific qualifying standards, evidenced by approvals, permits or certificates, and to comply with various requirements when conducting business. We cannot predict if any noncompliance on the part of such commercial partners may cause potential liabilities to us and in turn disrupt our operations. Intensified government regulation of the internet industry in China could restrict our ability to maintain or increase our user level or the level of user traffic to our YY platform. The PRC government has, in recent years, intensified regulation on various aspects of the internet industry in China. For example, the PRC government adopted more stringent policies to monitor the online game industry due to adverse public reaction to perceived addiction to online games, particularly in children and minors. On April 15, 2007, eight PRC government authorities, including the GAPP, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Public Security and the MIIT issued a notice requiring all Chinese online game operators to adopt an "anti-fatigue system" in an effort to curb addiction to online games by minors. To help game operators identify which game players are minors, online game players in China are now required to register their names and identity card numbers before playing an online game, which information was to be submitted to and verified by the National Citizen Identity Information Center, a subordinate public institution of the Ministry of Public Security, as of October 1, 2011. These restrictions could limit our ability to increase our online game business among minors. See "Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation—Anti-fatigue Compliance System and Real-name Registration System." In order to comply with these anti-fatigue rules, we set up our system so that after three hours of playing our online games, minors only receive half of the virtual items or other in-game benefits they would otherwise earn, and after playing for more than five hours, receive no in-game benefits. Failure to implement these restrictions, if detected by the relevant government agencies, may result in fines and other penalties for us, including the shutting down of our online game operations and license revocation. Furthermore, if these restrictions were expanded to apply to adult game players in the future, our online game business could be materially and adversely affected. 29 In addition, on February 25, 2007, 14 PRC regulatory authorities jointly promulgated a circular to further strengthen the oversight of internet cafes, one of the primary venues from which our platform is accessed. In recent years, a large number of unlicensed internet cafes have been closed, and the PRC government has imposed higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of internet cafes. Governmental authorities may from time to time impose stricter requirements on internet cafes, such as customer age limits and regulated hours of operation. Since a substantial portion of our users access our platform from internet cafes, any reduction in the number, or slowdown in the growth, of internet cafes in China, or any new regulatory restrictions on their operations, could limit our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. More stringent governmental regulations such as the ones outlined above may discourage game players from playing our games and have a material effect on our business operations. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes and prior court decisions have limited value as precedents. Each of our PRC subsidiaries, Beijing Huanju Shidai, Guangzhou Huanju Shidai and Zhuhai Huanju Shidai, is a foreign-invested enterprise and is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises as well as various Chinese laws and regulations generally applicable to companies incorporated in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties. From time to time, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce our legal rights. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published in a timely manner or at all) that may have retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. Such uncertainties, including uncertainty over the scope and effect of our contractual, property (including intellectual property) and procedural rights, could materially and adversely affect our business and impede our ability to continue our operations. Changes in China's economic, political or social conditions or government policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of our assets and almost all of our customers are located in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be influenced to a significant degree by political, economic and social conditions in China generally and by continued economic growth in China as a whole. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over the Chinese economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy, and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 30 While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth over the past decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. The Chinese government has implemented certain measures, including interest rate increases, to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China, which could in turn reduce the demand for our products and services and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of internet business and companies. The PRC government extensively regulates the internet industry, including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in the internet industry. These internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be in violations of applicable laws and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to PRC regulation of the internet business include, but are not limited to, the following: ·We only have contractual control over our platform. Guangzhou Huaduo, our PRC consolidated affiliated entity, owns our platform due to the restriction of foreign investment in businesses providing value-added telecommunication services in China, including internet content provision services. If Guangzhou Huaduo breaches its contractual arrangements with us and no longer remains under our control, this may significantly disrupt our business, subject us to sanctions, compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. ·There are uncertainties relating to the regulation of the internet business in China, including evolving licensing practices and the requirement for real-name registrations. Permits, licenses or operations at some of our subsidiaries and PRC consolidated affiliated entities levels may be subject to challenge, or we may fail to obtain permits or licenses that may be deemed necessary for our operations or we may not be able to obtain or renew certain permits or licenses. See "—Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure and Our Industry—If our PRC consolidated affiliated entities fail to obtain and maintain the requisite licenses and approvals required under the complex regulatory environment for internet-based businesses in China, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected" and "Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation." In addition, although we currently have a real-name registration system in place for our online games in strict compliance with the relevant PRC regulations, we are currently not required by PRC law to ask users for their real name and personal information when they register for a YY user account. We cannot assure you that PRC regulators would not require us to implement compulsory real-name registration on our platform in the future. In late 2011, for example, the Beijing municipal government required microbloggers in China to implement real-name registration for all of their registered users. If we were required to implement real-name registration on YY, we may lose large numbers of registered user accounts for various reasons, because users may no longer maintain multiple accounts and users who dislike giving out their private information may cease to use our products and services altogether. ·The evolving PRC regulatory system for the internet industry may lead to the establishment of new regulatory agencies. For example, in May 2011, the State Council announced the establishment of a new department, the State Internet Information Office (with the involvement of the State Council Information Office, or the SCIO, the MIIT and the Ministry of Public Security). The primary role of this new agency is to facilitate the policy-making and legislative development in this field to direct and coordinate with the relevant departments in connection with online content administration and to deal with cross-ministry regulatory matters in relation to the internet industry. We are unable to determine what policies this new agency or any new agencies to be established in the future may have or how they may interpret existing laws, regulations and policies and how they may affect us. Further, new laws, regulations or policies may be promulgated or announced that will regulate internet activities, including online video and online advertising businesses. If these new laws, regulations or policies are promulgated, additional licenses may be required for our operations. If our operations do not comply with these new regulations after they become effective, or if we fail to obtain any licenses required under these new laws and regulations, we could be subject to penalties. 31 On July 13, 2006, the MIIT issued the Notice of the Ministry of Information Industry on Intensifying the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunications Services. This notice prohibits domestic telecommunication service providers from leasing, transferring or selling telecommunication business operating licenses to any foreign investor in any form, or providing any resources, sites or facilities to any foreign investor for their illegal operation of a telecommunication business in China. According to this notice, either the holder of a value-added telecommunication business operating license or its shareholders must be the registered holders of the domain names and trademarks used by such license holders in their provision of value-added telecommunication services. The notice also requires each license holder to have the necessary facilities, including servers, for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. Currently, all contracts with telecommunication carriers and other service providers to host the servers used in our business were entered into by Guangzhou Huaduo, our PRC consolidated affiliated entity, and such arrangements are in compliance with this notice. Guangzhou Huaduo also owns the related domain names and trademarks, and holds the ICP License necessary to conduct our operations in China. On June 3, 2010, the MOC promulgated the Provisional Administration Measures of Online Games, or the Online Games Measures, which became effective on August 1, 2010. The Online Games Measures provide that any entity engaging in online game operation activities shall obtain the Internet Culture Operation License and must meet certain requirements such as minimum registered capital. Online game developers are generally involved in the purchase of servers and bandwidth, the control and management of game data, the maintenance of game systems and certain other maintenance tasks in our operation of online games. The Guangzhou branch of the MOC has confirmed that such outsourcing and cooperation activities are not considered conducting online game operation activities, and that online game developers do not have to obtain the Internet Culture Operation License in accordance with the Online Games Measures. However, because of the limited time in which these measures have been in effect, there are still uncertainties on the MOC's interpretation and implementation of these measures. If the MOC determines in the future that such qualifications or requirements apply to the online game developers for their involvement in the online game operations, we may have to terminate our revenue-sharing arrangements with certain unqualified online game developers and may even be subject to various penalties, which may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The interpretation and application of existing PRC laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies relating to the internet industry have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, internet businesses in China, including our business. There are also risks that we may be found to violate the existing or future laws and regulations given the uncertainty and complexity of China's regulation of internet business. Content posted or displayed on our platform may be found objectionable by PRC regulatory authorities and may subject us to penalties and other severe consequences. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing internet access and the distribution of information over the internet. Under these regulations, internet content providers and internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the internet content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China or the public interest, or is obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. Furthermore, internet content providers are also prohibited from displaying content that may be deemed by relevant government authorities as "socially destabilizing" or leaking "state secrets" of the PRC. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the revocation of licenses to provide internet content and other licenses, the closure of the concerned platforms and reputational harm. The operator may also be held liable for such censored information displayed on or linked to their platform. For a detailed discussion, see "Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation." We allow visitors to our portal websites to upload written materials, images, pictures, and other content on the forums on our websites, and also allow users to share, link to and otherwise access audio, video, games and other content from third parties through our platform. For a description of how content can be accessed on or through our real-time interactive social platform, and what measures we take to lessen the likelihood that we will be held liable for the nature of such content, see "Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Technology," "Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Intellectual Property," and "—Risks Related to Our Business—We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims or other allegations, which could result in our payment of substantial damages, penalties and fines, removal of relevant content from our website or seeking license arrangements which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms." 32 Since our inception, we have worked closely with relevant government authorities to monitor the content on our platform and to make the utmost effort in complying with relevant laws and regulations. However, it may not be possible to determine in all cases the types of content that could result in our liability as an internet operator, and if any of our internet content is deemed by the PRC government to violate any content restrictions, we would not be able to continue to display such content and could become subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of required licenses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to potential liability for any unlawful actions of our users or third party service providers on our platform or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. For example, we have previously been subject to a few warnings and fines each of RMB40,000 or less for having inappropriate content on our platform. Although we corrected these non-compliances and undertook measures to prevent the recurrence of such instances, it may be difficult to determine the type of content or actions that may result in liability to us, and if we are found to be liable, we may be prevented from operating our business in China. Moreover, the costs of compliance with these regulations may continue to increase as a result of more content being uploaded or made available by an increasing number of users and third party partners and developers, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Although we have adopted internal procedures to monitor content uploaded to our website and to remove offending content once we become aware of any potential or alleged violation, we may not be able to identify all the content that may violate relevant laws and regulations or third party intellectual property rights and even if we manage to identify and remove offending content, we may still be held liable for such third-party content. Users may upload content or images containing copyright violations and other illegal content and we may be subject to claims or become involved in litigation proceedings. As a result, our reputation, business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Advertisements shown on our platform may subject us to penalties and other administrative actions. Under PRC advertising laws and regulations, we are obligated to monitor the advertising content shown on our platform to ensure that such content is true and accurate and in full compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, where a special government review is required for specific types of advertisements prior to internet posting, such as advertisements relating to pharmaceuticals, medical instruments, agrochemicals and veterinary pharmaceuticals, we are obligated to confirm that such review has been performed and approval has been obtained. Violation of these laws and regulations may subject us to penalties, including fines, confiscation of our advertising income, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an announcement correcting the misleading information. In circumstances involving serious violations by us, PRC governmental authorities may force us to terminate our advertising operations or revoke our licenses. While we have made significant efforts to ensure that the advertisements shown on our platform are in full compliance with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that all the content contained in such advertisements or offers is true and accurate as required by the advertising laws and regulations, especially given the uncertainty in the interpretation of these PRC laws and regulations. If we are found to be in violation of applicable PRC advertising laws and regulations, we may be subject to penalties and our reputation may be harmed, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Under the PRC enterprise income tax law, we may be classified as a PRC "resident enterprise," which could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our shareholders and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Under the PRC enterprise income tax law that became effective on January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside the PRC with "de facto management bodies" within the PRC is considered a "resident enterprise" for PRC enterprise income tax purposes and is generally subject to a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on its worldwide income. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Overseas Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprise on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or SAT Circular 82, which provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the "de facto management body" of a PRC-controlled enterprise that is incorporated offshore is located in China. Further to SAT Circular 82, on August 3, 2011, the SAT issued the Administrative Measures of Enterprise Income Tax of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Resident Enterprises (Trial), or SAT Bulletin 45, to provide more guidance on the implementation of SAT Circular 82; the bulletin became effective on September 1, 2011. SAT Bulletin 45 clarified certain issues in the areas of resident status determination, post-determination administration and competent tax authorities. 33 According to SAT Circular 82, an offshore incorporated enterprise controlled by a PRC enterprise or a PRC enterprise group will be considered as a PRC tax resident enterprise by virtue of having its "de facto management body" in China and will be subject to PRC enterprise income tax on its worldwide income only if all of the following conditions are met: (a) the senior management and core management departments in charge of its daily operations function have their presence mainly in the PRC; (b) its financial and human resources decisions are subject to determination or approval by persons or bodies in the PRC; (c) its major assets, accounting books, company seals, and minutes and files of its board and shareholders' meetings are located or kept in the PRC; and (d) more than half of the enterprise's directors or senior management with voting rights habitually reside in the PRC. SAT Bulletin 45 further clarifies the resident status determination, post-determination administration, as well as competent tax authorities. It also specifies that when provided with a copy of Chinese tax resident determination certificate from a resident Chinese controlled offshore incorporated enterprise, the payer should not withhold 10% income tax when paying the Chinese-sourced dividends, interest, royalties, etc. to the Chinese controlled offshore incorporated enterprise. Although SAT Circular 82 and SAT Bulletin 45 only apply to offshore incorporated enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise group instead of those controlled by PRC individuals or foreigners, the determination criteria set forth therein may reflect SAT's general position on how the term "de facto management body" could be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises, individuals or foreigners. We do not meet all of the conditions above; therefore, we believe that we should not be treated as a "resident enterprise" for PRC tax purposes even if the standards for "de facto management body" prescribed in the SAT Circular 82 are applicable to us. For example, our minutes and files of the resolutions of our board of directors and the resolutions of our shareholders are maintained outside the PRC. In addition, we are not aware of any offshore holding companies with a corporate structure similar to ours ever having been deemed to be a PRC "resident enterprise" by the PRC tax authorities. However, it is possible that the PRC tax authorities may take a different view. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our Cayman Islands holding company is a PRC resident enterprise for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, then our world-wide income could be subject to PRC tax at a rate of 25%, which could materially reduce our net income. In addition, we will also be subject to PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Although dividends paid by one PRC tax resident to another PRC tax resident should qualify as "tax-exempt income" under the enterprise income tax law, we cannot assure you that dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to our Cayman Islands holding company will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax on dividends, and the PRC tax authorities have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Foreign ADS holders may also be subject to PRC withholding tax on dividends payable by us and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or common shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. Although our holding company is incorporated in the Cayman Islands, it remains unclear whether dividends received and gains realized by our foreign ADS holders will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax will reduce the returns on your investment in our ADSs. 34 Finally, we face uncertainties on the reporting and consequences on private equity financing transactions, private share transfers and share exchange involving the transfer of shares in our company by non-resident investors. According to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation on December 10, 2009, with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008, or SAT Circular 698, and the Notice on Several Issues Concerning Enterprise Income Tax for Indirect Share Transfer by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation on February 3, 2015, or SAT Circular 7, an "indirect transfer" of assets of a PRC resident enterprise, including equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise, by non-PRC resident enterprises may be re-characterized and treated as a direct transfer of PRC taxable properties, if such transaction arrangement lacks reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of reducing, avoiding or deferring PRC enterprise income tax. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax, and tax filing or withholding obligations may be triggered, depending on the nature of the PRC taxable properties being transferred. According to SAT Circular 7, “PRC taxable properties” include assets of a PRC establishment or place of business, real properties in the PRC, and equity investments in PRC resident enterprises, in respect of which gains from their transfer by a direct holder, being a non-PRC resident enterprise, would be subject to PRC enterprise income taxes. When determining if there is a "reasonable commercial purpose" of the transaction arrangement, features to be taken into consideration include: whether the main value of the equity interest of the relevant offshore enterprise derives from PRC taxable properties; whether the assets of the relevant offshore enterprise mainly consists of direct or indirect investment in China or if its income mainly derives from China; whether the offshore enterprise and its subsidiaries directly or indirectly holding PRC taxable properties have real commercial nature which is evidenced by their actual function and risk exposure; the duration of existence of the business model and organizational structure; the replicability of the transaction by direct transfer of PRC taxable properties; and the tax situation of such indirect transfer and applicable tax treaties or similar arrangements. In respect of an indirect offshore transfer of assets of a PRC establishment or place of business of a foreign enterprise, the resulting gain is to be included with the annual enterprise filing of the PRC establishment or place of business being transferred, and would consequently be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Where the underlying transfer relates to PRC real properties or to equity investments in a PRC resident enterprise, which is not related to a PRC establishment or place of business of a non-resident enterprise, a PRC enterprise income tax at 10% would apply, subject to available preferential tax treatment under applicable tax treaties or similar arrangements, and the party who is obligated to make the transfer payments has the withholding obligation. Where the payor fails to withhold any or sufficient tax, the transferor shall declare and pay such tax to the competent tax authority by itself within the statutory time limit. Late payment of applicable tax will subject the transferor to default interest. Currently, neither SAT Circular 698 nor SAT Circular 7 applies to the sale of shares by investors through a public stock exchange where such shares were acquired from a transaction through a public stock exchange. We cannot assure you that the PRC tax authorities will not, at their discretion, adjust any capital gains and impose tax return filing and withholding or tax payment obligations on the transferors and transferees, while our PRC subsidiaries may be requested to assist in the filing. Any PRC tax imposed on a transfer of our shares or any adjustment of such gains would cause us to incur additional costs and may have a negative impact on the value of your investment in our company. If our preferential tax treatments are revoked or become unavailable or if the calculation of our tax liability is successfully challenged by the PRC tax authorities, we may be required to pay tax, interest and penalties in excess of our tax provisions, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Chinese government has provided various tax incentives to our subsidiaries in China. These incentives include reduced enterprise income tax rates. For example, under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, the statutory enterprise income tax rate is 25%. However, Guangzhou Huaduo, our PRC consolidated affiliated entity in the PRC, was recognized as a high and new technology enterprise, or HNTE, as of September 26, 2010 and, subject to the approval of an annual review by competent tax authorities in Guangdong, would be entitled to enjoy a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15% for two years, from 2011 through 2012. Guangzhou Huaduo recorded losses in 2010 and has not benefited from such preferential tax rate. Guangzhou Huaduo has applied for and obtained the preferential tax treatment with Guangzhou State Tax Bureau, but the high and new technology enterprise qualification was only effective until September 26, 2013. In 2013, Guangzhou Huaduo applied to renew its qualification as a high and new technology enterprise. The review process has been completed and Guangdong Department of Science and Technology has announced that Guangzhou Huaduo continues to qualify as an HNTE. Therefore, Guangzhou Huaduo enjoyed the preferential tax rate of 15% in place of the statutory enterprise income tax rate of 25% in 2013 and 2014, and will be entitled to enjoy such preferential tax rate in 2015. In addition, Guangzhou Huanju Shidai has been recognized as a software enterprise since 2013, and is therefore entitled to a two-year exemption from enterprise income tax followed by three years at 50% of the standard enterprise income tax rate starting from 2014, the first profit-making year. However, if either Guangzhou Huaduo or Guangzhou Huanju Shidai fails to maintain its qualification for preferential tax treatments, its applicable enterprise income tax rate may increase to 25%, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 35 China’s M&A Rules and certain other PRC regulations establish complex procedures for certain acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. Six PRC regulatory agencies promulgated regulations effective on September 8, 2006, subsequently amended, that are commonly referred to as the M&A Rules. See "Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—PRC Regulation—New M&A Regulations and Overseas Listings." The M&A Rules establish procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a Chinese domestic enterprise or a foreign company with substantial PRC operations, if certain thresholds under the Provisions on Thresholds for Prior Notification of Concentrations of Undertakings, issued by the State Council on August 3, 2008, are triggered. Moreover, the Anti-Monopoly Law promulgated by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress on August 30, 2007 which became effective on August 1, 2008 requires that transactions which are deemed concentrations and involve parties with specified turnover thresholds (for example, during the previous fiscal year, (i) the total global turnover of all operators participating in the transaction exceeds RMB10 billion (US$1.6 billion) and at least two of these operators each had a turnover of more than RMB400 million (US$64.5 million) within China, or (ii) the total turnover within China of all the operators participating in the concentration exceeded RMB2 billion (US$0.3 billion) and at least two of these operators each had a turnover of more than RMB400 million (US$64.5 million) within China) must be cleared by the MOFCOM before they can be completed. In addition, on February 3, 2011, the General Office of the State Council promulgated a Notice on Establishing the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the Circular No. 6, which officially established a security review system for mergers and acquisitions of domestic enterprises by foreign investors. Under Circular No. 6, a security review is required for mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors having "national defense and security" concerns and mergers and acquisitions by which foreign investors may acquire the "de facto control" of domestic enterprises with "national security" concerns. In the future, we may grow our business by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the above-mentioned regulations and other relevant rules to complete such transactions could be time consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOFCOM or its local counterparts, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions. It is unclear whether our business would be deemed to be in an industry that raises "national defense and security" or "national security" concerns. However, MOFCOM or other government agencies may publish explanations in the future determining that our business is in an industry subject to the security review, in which case our future acquisitions in the PRC, including those by way of entering into contractual control arrangements with target entities, may be closely scrutinized or prohibited. Our ability to expand our business or maintain or expand our market share through future acquisitions would as such be materially and adversely affected. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our PRC subsidiaries' ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us or otherwise expose us to liability and penalties under PRC law. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, has promulgated regulations, including the Notice on Relevant Issues Relating to Domestic Residents' Investment and Financing and Round-Trip Investment through Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular No. 37, effective on July 4, 2014, and its appendixes, that require PRC residents, including PRC institutions and individuals, to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct establishment or indirect control of an offshore entity, for the purpose of overseas investment and financing, with such PRC residents' legally owned assets or equity interests in domestic enterprises or offshore assets or interests, referred to in SAFE Circular No. 37 as a "special purpose vehicle." SAFE Circular No. 37 further requires amendment to the registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to the special purpose vehicle, such as increase or decrease of capital contributed by PRC individuals, share transfer or exchange, merger, division or other material event. In the event that a PRC shareholder holding interests in a special purpose vehicle fails to fulfill the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that special purpose vehicle may be prohibited from making profit distributions to the offshore parent and from carrying out subsequent cross-border foreign exchange activities, and the special purpose vehicle may be restricted in their ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiary. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion, including (i) the requirement by SAFE to return the foreign exchange remitted overseas within a period specified by SAFE, with a fine of up to 30% of the total amount of foreign exchange remitted overseas and deemed to have been evasive and (ii) in circumstances involving serious violations, a fine of no less than 30% of and up to the total amount of remitted foreign exchange deemed evasive. Furthermore, the persons-in-charge and other persons at our PRC subsidiaries who are held directly liable for the violations may be subject to criminal sanctions. 36 Our PRC resident shareholders, Messrs. David Xueling Li, Tony Bin Zhao, Jin Cao and Jun Lei, had registered with the local SAFE branch in relation to our existing private placement financings by the end of 2011 as required by the SAFE regulations, and had subsequently filed amendments to update their registrations reflecting shareholding changes in our company resulting from our initial public offering in March 2015. Since SAFE Circular No. 37 was recently issued, there remains uncertainty with respect to its interpretation and implementation, and we cannot predict how such SAFE regulations will affect our business operations. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries' ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with the SAFE regulations by our PRC resident shareholders. In addition, in some cases, we may have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect PRC resident shareholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our current or future PRC resident shareholders to comply with the SAFE regulations, including but not limited to any delay in subsequent filings, could subject us to fines or other legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiary's ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. On February 15, 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notices on Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plans of Overseas Publicly-Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rules, which replaced the Application Procedures of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas Publicly-Listed Companies issued by SAFE on March 28, 2007. Under the Stock Option Rules and other relevant rules and regulations, PRC residents who participate in stock incentive plan in an overseas publicly-listed company are required to register with SAFE or its local branches and complete certain other procedures. Participants of a stock incentive plan who are PRC residents must retain a qualified PRC agent, which could be a PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly listed company or another qualified institution selected by such PRC subsidiary, to conduct the SAFE registration and other procedures with respect to the stock incentive plan on behalf of its participants. Such participants must also retain an overseas entrusted institution to handle matters in connection with their exercise of stock options, the purchase and sale of corresponding stocks or interests and fund transfers. In addition, the PRC agent is required to amend the SAFE registration with respect to the stock incentive plan if there is any material change to the stock incentive plan, the PRC agent or the overseas entrusted institution or other material changes. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options, restricted shares and restricted share units are subject to these regulations, and are preparing to complete such SAFE registrations. Failure of our PRC stock option holders, restricted shareholders or restricted share units holders to complete their SAFE registrations may subject these PRC residents to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limited our PRC subsidiaries' ability to distribute dividends to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. PRC regulation of direct investment and loans by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or limit us from using the proceeds of our initial public offering to make additional capital contributions or loans to our PRC subsidiaries. We are an offshore holding company conducting our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entities. We may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entities, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any capital contributions or loans that we, as an offshore entity, make to our PRC subsidiaries, including from the proceeds of our initial public offering, are subject to PRC regulations. For example, none of our loans to a PRC subsidiary can exceed the difference between its total amount of investment and its registered capital approved under relevant PRC laws, and the loans must be registered with the local branch of SAFE. Our capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries must be approved by the MOFCOM or its local counterpart. In August 2008, SAFE issued the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 142, regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested enterprise of foreign currency-registered capital into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. In addition, SAFE promulgated Circular 45 on November 9, 2011 in order to clarify the application of SAFE Circular 142. Under SAFE Circular 142 and Circular 45, the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable government authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of foreign-invested enterprises. The use of such RMB capital may not be changed without SAFE's approval, and such RMB capital may not in any case be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. 37 Since SAFE Circular 142 has been in place for more than five years, in 2014, SAFE decided to further reform the foreign exchange administration system in order to satisfy and facilitate the business and capital operations of foreign invested enterprises, and issued the Circular on the Relevant Issues Concerning the Launch of Reforming Trial of the Administration Model of the Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises in Certain Areas on July 4, 2014, or SAFE Circular 36. SAFE Circular 36 suspends the application of SAFE Circular 142 in certain areas and allows a foreign-invested enterprise registered in such areas to use the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital for equity investments within the PRC, which will be regarded as the reinvestment of foreign-invested enterprise. On March 30, 2015, SAFE issued the Circular on the Reforming of the Management Method of the Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 19, which is scheduled to take effect on June 1, 2015. Under SAFE Circular 19, a foreign-invested enterprise may also choose to convert its registered capital from foreign currency to RMB on a discretionary basis, and the RMB capital so converted can be used for equity investments within PRC, which will be regarded as the reinvestment of foreign-invested enterprise. After Circular 19 takes effect, Circular 142 and Circular 36 will be abolished. In light of the various requirements imposed by PRC regulations on loans to and direct investment in PRC entities by offshore holding companies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary registration or obtain the necessary approval on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to complete the necessary registration or obtain the necessary approval, our ability to make loans or equity contributions to our PRC subsidiaries may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our PRC subsidiaries' liquidity and their ability to fund their working capital and expansion projects and meet their obligations and commitments. Our PRC subsidiaries and PRC consolidated affiliated entities are subject to restrictions on paying dividends or making other payments to us, which may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. We rely on dividends from our PRC subsidiaries as well as consulting and other fees paid to us by our PRC consolidated affiliated entities for our cash and financing requirements, such as the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs, and service any debt we may incur. Current PRC regulations permit our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated after-tax profits upon satisfaction of relevant statutory condition and procedures, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our PRC subsidiaries is required to set aside at least 10% of its accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds until the total amount set aside reaches 50% of its registered capital. As of December 31, 2014, appropriations to statutory reserves amounting to RMB56.5 million were made by three of our PRC consolidated affiliated entities. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our PRC subsidiaries and PRC consolidated affiliated entities incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us, which may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements. In addition, the EIT Law, and its implementation rules provide that withholding tax rate of 10% will be applicable to dividends payable by Chinese companies to non-PRC-resident enterprises unless otherwise exempted or reduced according to treaties or arrangements between the PRC central government and governments of other countries or regions where the non-PRC-resident enterprises are incorporated. Fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China's political and economic conditions and China's foreign exchange policies. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People's Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the Renminbi to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again, though there have been periods when the U.S. dollar has appreciated against the Renminbi as well. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. 38 There remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt a flexible currency policy to allow the Renminbi to appreciate against the U.S. dollar. Significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Substantially all of our revenues and costs are denominated in Renminbi. Any significant revaluation of Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollars. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for capital expenditures and working capital and other business purposes, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, a significant depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may significantly reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings, which in turn could adversely affect the price of our ADSs, and if we decide to convert RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or ADSs, strategic acquisitions or investments or other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Very limited hedging options are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to adequately hedge our exposure or at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively and affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes control on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior SAFE approval by complying with certain procedural requirements. Therefore, our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to us without prior approval from SAFE. However, approval from or registration with appropriate government authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currencies to satisfy our foreign currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Recently enacted regulations in the PRC may make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions, adversely affecting our plans to expand our business or maintain our market share. Among other things, the M&A Rules established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex. Such regulation requires, among other things, that the MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise or a foreign company with substantial PRC operations, if certain thresholds under the Provisions on Thresholds for Prior Notification of Concentrations of Undertakings, issued by the State Council on August 3, 2008, are triggered. We may grow our business in part by directly acquiring complementary businesses in China. Complying with the requirements of these regulations to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. If the custodians or authorized users of controlling non-tangible assets of our company, including our corporate chops and seals, fail to fulfill their responsibilities, or misappropriate or misuse these assets, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. Under PRC law, legal documents for corporate transactions, including contracts such as revenue-sharing contracts with online game developers which are important to our business, are executed using the chops or seal of the signing entity or with the signature of a legal representative whose designation is registered and filed with the relevant branch of the Administration of Industry and Commerce. 39 Although we usually utilize chops to enter into contracts, the designated legal representatives of each of our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities have the apparent authority to enter into contracts on behalf of such entities without chops and bind such entities. All designated legal representatives of our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities are members of our senior management team who have signed employment agreements with us or our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities under which they agree to abide by various duties they owe to us. In order to maintain the physical security of our chops and chops of our PRC entities, we generally store these items in secured locations accessible only by the authorized personnel in the legal or finance department of each of our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities. Although we monitor such authorized personnel, there is no assurance such procedures will prevent all instances of abuse or negligence. Accordingly, if any of our authorized personnel misuse or misappropriate our corporate chops or seals, we could encounter difficulties in maintaining control over the relevant entities and experience significant disruption to our operations. If a designated legal representative obtains control of the chops in an effort to obtain control over any of our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated affiliated entities, we or our PRC subsidiary and consolidated affiliated entity would need to pass a new shareholder or board resolution to designate a new legal representative and we would need to take legal action to seek the return of the chops, apply for new chops with the relevant authorities, or otherwise seek legal redress for the violation of the representative's fiduciary duties to us, which could involve significant time and resources and divert management attention away from our regular business. In addition, the affected entity may not be able to recover corporate assets that are sold or transferred out of our control in the event of such a misappropriation if a transferee relies on the apparent authority of the representative and acts in good faith. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. The independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in this annual report, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. On May 24, 2013, PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and the Ministry of Finance which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations in the United States and China. PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. Inspections of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms' audit procedures and quality control procedures, and such deficiencies may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor's audit procedures or quality control procedures, and to the extent that such inspections might have facilitated improvements in our auditor's audit procedures and quality control procedures, investors may be deprived of such benefits. Additional remedial measures could be imposed on certain PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in administrative proceedings instituted by the SEC, as a result of which our financial statements may be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, if at all. In December 2012, the SEC brought administrative proceedings against the PRC-based affiliates of the Big Four accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that they had violated U.S. securities laws by failing to provide audit work papers and other documents related to certain other PRC-based companies under investigation by the SEC. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, censuring and suspending these accounting firms from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The decision was neither final nor legally effective until reviewed and approved by the SEC, and on February 12, 2014, the PRC-based accounting firms appealed to the SEC against this decision. In February 2015, each of the four PRC-based accounting firms agreed to a censure and to pay a fine to the SEC to settle the dispute and avoid suspension of their ability to practice before the SEC. The settlement requires the firms to follow detailed procedures to seek to provide the SEC with access to such firms' audit documents via the CSRC. If the firms do not follow these procedures or if there is a failure in the process between the SEC and the CSRC, the SEC could impose penalties such as suspensions, or it could restart the administrative proceedings. 40 In the event that the SEC restarts the administrative proceedings, depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding PRC-based, United States-listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. If our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, even temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined not to be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the delisting of our ordinary shares from the Nasdaq Global Market or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of the draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations. The MOFCOM published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law in January 2015 aiming to, upon its enactment, replace the trio of existing laws regulating foreign investment in China, namely, the Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law, the Sino-foreign Cooperative Joint Venture Enterprise Law and the Wholly Foreign-invested Enterprise Law, together with their implementation rules and ancillary regulations. The draft Foreign Investment Law embodies an expected PRC regulatory trend to rationalize its foreign investment regulatory regime in line with prevailing international practice and the legislative efforts to unify the corporate legal requirements for both foreign and domestic investments. The MOFCOM is currently soliciting comments on this draft and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to its enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may materially impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations in many aspects. Among other things, the draft Foreign Investment Law expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of "actual control" in determining whether a company is considered a foreign-invested enterprise, or an FIE. The draft Foreign Investment Law specifically provides that entities established in China but "controlled" by foreign investors will be treated as FIEs, whereas an entity set up in a foreign jurisdiction would nonetheless be, upon market entry clearance by the Ministry of Commerce, treated as a PRC domestic investor provided that the entity is "controlled" by PRC entities and/or citizens. In this connection, "control" is broadly defined in the draft law to cover the following summarized categories: (i) holding 50% of more of the voting rights of the subject entity; (ii) holding less than 50% of the voting rights of the subject entity but having the power to secure at least 50% of the seats on the board or other equivalent decision making bodies, or having the voting power to exert material influence on the board, the shareholders' meeting or other equivalent decision making bodies; or (iii) having the power to exert decisive influence, via contractual or trust arrangements, over the subject entity's operations, financial matters or other key aspects of business operations. Once an entity is determined to be an FIE and its investment amount exceeds certain thresholds or its business operation falls within a "negative list," to be separately issued by the State Council in the future, market entry clearance by the MOFCOM or its local counterparts will be required. Otherwise, all foreign investors may make investments on the same terms as domestic investors without being subject to additional approval from the government authorities as mandated by the existing foreign investment legal regime. The "variable interest entity" structure, or VIE structure, has been adopted by many PRC-based companies, including us, to obtain necessary licenses and permits in the industries that are currently subject to foreign investment restrictions in China. See "—Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure—If the PRC government finds that the structure we have adopted for our business operations does not comply with PRC laws and regulations, or if these laws or regulations or interpretations of existing laws or regulations change in the future, we could be subject to severe penalties, including the shutting down of our platform and our business operations", "—Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure—If our PRC consolidated affiliated entities fail to obtain and maintain the requisite licenses and approvals required under the complex regulatory environment for internet-based businesses in China, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected", and "Item 4. Information on the Company—C. Organizational Structure." Under the draft Foreign Investment Law, variable interest entities that are controlled via contractual arrangement would also be deemed as FIEs, if they are ultimately "controlled" by foreign investors. Therefore, for any companies with a VIE structure in an industry category that is on the "negative list," the VIE structure may be deemed legitimate only if the ultimate controlling person(s) is/are of PRC nationality (either PRC companies or PRC citizens). Conversely, if the actual controlling person(s) is/are of foreign nationalities, then the variable interest entities will be treated as FIEs and any operation in the industry category on the "negative list" without market entry clearance may be considered as illegal. 41 It is likely that we would be considered ultimately controlled by Chinese parties, as our management group, including Mr. David Xueling Li, our co-founder, chief executive officer and director, Mr. Jun Lei, our co-founder and chairman, Mr. Jin Cao, our executive vice president, Mr. Rongjie Dong, our executive vice president, and their respective affiliates, together beneficially own an aggregate of 37.7% of our outstanding shares and 75.9% of the total voting power of our company as of March 31, 2015. However, the draft Foreign Investment Law has not taken a position on what actions shall be taken with respect to the existing companies with a VIE structure, whether or not these companies are controlled by Chinese parties, while it is soliciting comments from the public on this point. Moreover, it is uncertain whether the Internet content and other Internet value-added service industry, in which our variable interest entities operate, will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in the "negative list" to be issued. If the enacted version of the Foreign Investment Law and the final "negative list" mandate further actions, such as MOFCOM market entry clearance, to be completed by companies with existing VIE structure like us, we face uncertainties as to whether such clearance can be timely obtained, or at all, and our business and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may also materially impact our corporate governance practice and increase our compliance costs. For instance, the draft Foreign Investment Law imposes stringent ad hoc and periodic information reporting requirements on foreign investors and the applicable FIEs. Aside from investment implementation report and investment amendment report that are required at each investment and alteration of investment specifics, an annual report is mandatory, and large foreign investors meeting certain criteria are required to report on a quarterly basis. Any company found to be non-compliant with these information reporting obligations may potentially be subject to fines and/or administrative or criminal liabilities, and the persons directly responsible may be subject to criminal liabilities. Risks Related to Our ADSs The trading prices of our ADSs are likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The daily closing trading prices of our ADSs ranged from US$52.05 to US$95.89 in 2014. The trading price of our ADSs is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely due to factors beyond our control. This may happen because of broad market and industry factors, like the performance and fluctuation in the market prices or the underperformance or deteriorating financial results of other similarly situated companies in China that have listed their securities in the United States in recent years. The securities of some of these companies have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings, including, in some cases, substantial price declines in the trading prices of their securities. The trading performances of these Chinese companies' securities after their offerings, including companies in internet and social networking businesses, may affect the attitudes of investors toward Chinese companies listed in the United States, which consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, any negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting or other practices at other Chinese companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards Chinese companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have engaged in such practices. Furthermore, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to our operating performance, which may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile due to specific factors, including the following: ·variations in our net revenues, earnings and cash flow; ·announcements of new investments, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, or joint ventures; ·announcements of new services and expansions by us or our competitors; ·changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; 42 ·changes in the number of our registered or active users; ·fluctuations in the number of paying users or other operating metrics; ·failure on our part to realize monetization opportunities as expected; ·additions or departures of key personnel; ·release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding equity securities or sales of additional equity securities; ·detrimental negative publicity about us, our competitors or our industry; and ·potential litigation or regulatory proceedings or changes. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. Provisions of our convertible senior notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. In March 2014, we issued an aggregate of US$400 million 2.25% convertible senior notes due in 2019. Certain provisions of our convertible senior notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. The indentures for these convertible notes define a "fundamental change" to include, among other things: (1) any person or group gaining control of our company; (2) any recapitalization, reclassification or change of our Class A common shares or ADSs as a result of which these securities would be converted into, or exchanged for, stock, other securities, other property or assets or any share exchange, consolidation or merger or similar transaction pursuant to which our Class A common shares or ADSs will be converted into cash, securities or other property; (3) the adoption of any plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of our company; (4) our ADSs ceasing to be listed on The New York Stock Exchange, The NASDAQ Global Select Market or The NASDAQ Global Market; or (5) any change in or amendment to the laws, regulations and rules in China that prohibits us from operating substantially all of our business operations and prevents us from continuing to derive substantially all of the economic benefits from our business operations. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, holders of these notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or any portion of the principal amount of such notes in integral multiples of US$1,000. In the event of a fundamental change, we may also be required to issue additional ADSs upon conversion of our convertible notes. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our ADSs, the market price for our ADSs and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ADSs will be influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about our business. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our ADSs, the market price for our ADSs would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price or trading volume for our ADSs to decline. The sale or availability for sale, or perceived sale or availability for sale, of substantial amounts of our ADSs could adversely affect their market price. Sales of substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through equity offerings in the future. Our ADSs are freely tradable by persons other than our affiliates without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and shares held by our existing shareholders may also be sold in the public market in the future subject to the restrictions in Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. In addition, common shares subject to our outstanding share-based awards, including options, restricted shares and restricted share units, are eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements, Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. We may also issue additional options in the future which may be exercised for additional common shares and additional restricted shares and restricted share units which may vest. As of March 31, 2015, we had 1,076,773,104 common shares outstanding. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of our ADSs. 43 We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes, which could subject United States investors in our ADSs or common shares to significant adverse United States income tax consequences. We will be classified as a "passive foreign investment company," or "PFIC" for United States federal income tax purposes for any taxable year, if either (a) 75% or more of our gross income for such year consists of certain types of "passive" income or (b) 50% or more of the average quarterly value of our assets (as determined on the basis of fair market value) during such year produce or are held for the production of passive income. Although the law in this regard is unclear, we treat Guangzhou Huaduo and Beijing Tuda as being owned by us for United States federal income tax purposes, not only because we exercise effective control over the operation of such entities but also because we are entitled to substantially all of their economic benefits, and, as a result, we consolidate their operating results in our consolidated financial statements. Assuming that we are treated as owning Guangzhou Huaduo and Beijing Tuda for United States federal income tax purposes, although we do not expect to be classified as a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ended December 31, 2014, there is a risk that we will become a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2015 and future taxable years because of our significant cash balances and because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs. Accordingly, fluctuations in the market price of our ADSs may cause us to become a PFIC for the current taxable year or future taxable years. The determination of whether we will be or become a PFIC will also be affected by how, and how quickly, we use our liquid assets. Under circumstances where we determine not to deploy significant amounts of cash for active purposes our risk of being classified as a PFIC may substantially increase. It is also possible that the Internal Revenue Service may challenge our classification or valuation of our goodwill and other unbooked intangibles, which may result in our company being or, becoming classified as, a PFIC for the current or future taxable years. The determination of whether we will be or become a PFIC will also depend, in part, upon the nature of our income and assets over time, which are subject to change from year to year. There can be no assurance our business plans will not change in a manner that will affect our PFIC status. Because there are uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and PFIC status is a fact-intensive determination made on an annual basis, no assurance may be given With respect to our PFIC status for any taxable year. If we are classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, a U.S. holder (as defined in "Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations") may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or common shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or common shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an "excess distribution" under the United States federal income tax rules. Further, if we are classified as a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. holder holds our ADSs or common shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. holder holds our ADSs or common shares. Alternatively, U.S. holders of PFIC shares can sometimes avoid the rules described above by making certain elections, including a "mark-to-market" election or electing to treat a PFIC as a "qualified electing fund." However, U.S. holders will not be able to make an election to treat us as a "qualified electing fund" because, even if we were to be or become a PFIC, we do not intend to comply with the requirements necessary to permit U.S. holders to make such election.Each U.S. holder is urged to consult its tax advisor concerning the United States federal income tax considerations related to an investment in our ADSs or common shares if we are treated as a PFIC for our current taxable year ending 2015 or any future taxable year (including the possibility of making a "mark-to-market" election and the unavailability of an election to treat us as a qualified electing fund). For more information see "Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules." Our dual class common share structure with different voting rights will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A common shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our common shares are divided into Class A common shares and Class B common shares. Holders of Class A common shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B common shares are entitled to ten votes per share, voting together as one class on all matters requiring a shareholders' vote. Each Class B common share is convertible into one Class A common share at any time by the holder thereof. Class A common shares are not convertible into Class B common shares under any circumstances. Upon any transfer of Class B common shares by a holder thereof to any person or entity that is not an affiliate of such holder, such Class B common shares will be automatically and immediately converted into an equal number of Class A common shares. 44 Due to the disparate voting powers attached to these two classes of common shares, as of March 31, 2015, our management group, including Messrs. David Xueling Li, Jun Lei, Jin Cao and Rongjie Dong and their respective affiliates, beneficially own an aggregate of 37.7% of our outstanding shares representing 75.9% of the total voting power and have considerable influence over all matters requiring a shareholders' vote, including election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of Class A common shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our common shares and ADSs. Our articles of association contain provisions to limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our common shares, in the form of ADSs or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through U.S. courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. We are a company limited by shares incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our corporate affairs are governed by our second amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law 2012 (as amended) of the Cayman Islands and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from the common law of England, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding, on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. Some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. In addition, shareholders of a Cayman Islands company may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. Unlike many jurisdictions in the United States, Cayman Islands law does not generally provide for shareholder appraisal rights on an approved arrangement and reconstruction of a company. This may make it more difficult for you to assess the value of any consideration you may receive in a merger or consolidation or to require that the offeror give you additional consideration if you believe the consideration offered is insufficient. Moreover, holders of our ADSs are not entitled to appraisal rights under Cayman Islands law. ADS holders that wish to exercise their appraisal or dissentient rights must convert their ADSs into our Class A common shares by surrendering their ADSs to the depositary and paying the ADS depositary fee. Shareholders of Cayman Islands exempted companies like us have no general rights under Cayman Islands law to inspect corporate records or to obtain copies of lists of shareholders of these companies. Our directors have discretion under our existing articles of association to determine whether or not, and under what conditions, our corporate records may be inspected by our shareholders, but are not obliged to make them available to our shareholders. This may make it more difficult for you to obtain the information needed to establish any facts necessary for a shareholder motion or to solicit proxies from other shareholders in connection with a proxy contest. 45 As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a company incorporated in the United States. Judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable in our home jurisdiction. We are a Cayman Islands company and all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in China. In addition, a significant majority of our current directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States and substantially all of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the United States federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There are uncertainties as to whether Cayman Islands courts would: ·recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and ·impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement, and you may not be able to exercise your right to vote your Class A common shares. As a holder of our ADSs, you will only be able to exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying Class A common shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, you must vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying Class A common shares in accordance with these instructions. You will not be able to directly exercise your right to vote with respect to the underlying shares unless you withdraw the shares from the depositary. Under our second amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is at least ten clear days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient advance notice to withdraw the shares underlying your ADSs to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and will arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for their manner of carrying out your voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may have no legal remedy if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our Class A common shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders' meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, if you do not vote, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our Class A common shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders' meetings unless: ·we have failed to timely provide the depositary with notice of meeting and related voting materials; ·we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; ·we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; 46 ·a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or ·the voting at the meeting is to be made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that if you do not vote at shareholders' meetings, you cannot prevent our Class A common shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, except under the circumstances described above. This may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our common shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive dividends or other distributions on our common shares and you may not receive any value for them, if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on Class A common shares or other deposited securities underlying our ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of Class A common shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, common shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, common shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive distributions we make on our common shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our share register or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks that it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason in accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement. As a result, you may be unable to transfer your ADSs when you wish to. 