ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operation, financial condition or results. Risks Related to Our BusinessWe compete in a mature category with strong competition.We compete in the ready-to-eat cereal category with competitors that represent larger shares of category sales. Our products face strong competition from competitors for shelf space and sales. Competition in our product categories is based on product innovation, product quality, price, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy dynamic consumer preferences. Some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase marketing or lose market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. This high level of competition could result in a decrease in our sales volumes. In addition, increased trade spending or advertising or reduced prices on our competitors’ products may require us to do the same for our products which could impact our margins and volumes. If we did not do the same, our revenue, profitability and market share could be adversely affected.We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and trends, which could result in decreased demand for our products.Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes and eating habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Consumer preferences change from time to time and can be affected by a number of different and unexpected trends. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react quickly to these changes and trends, and to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, could result in reduced demand for our products, which would in turn cause our revenues and profitability to suffer. Similarly, demand for our products could be affected by consumer concerns regarding the health effects of nutrients or ingredients such as trans fats, sugar, processed wheat and corn or other product attributes.A decline in demand for ready-to-eat cereals could adversely affect our financial performance.We focus primarily on producing and selling ready-to-eat cereal products. Because of our product concentration in our Post Foods segment, any decline in consumer demand or preferences, including diet-driven changes, for ready-to-eat cereals or any other factor that adversely affects the ready-to-eat cereal market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the healthfulness, safety or quality of ready-to-eat cereals or ingredients. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions.Economic downturns could limit consumer demand for our products.The willingness of consumers to purchase our products depends in part on general or local economic conditions. In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers may purchase more generic, private brand or value brands and may forgo certain purchases altogether. In those circumstances, we could experience a reduction in sales of our products. In addition, as a result of economic conditions or competitive actions, we may be unable to raise our prices sufficiently to protect profit margins. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.Commodity price volatility and higher energy costs could negatively impact profits.The primary commodities used by our businesses include wheat, nuts (including almonds), sugar, edible oils, corn, oats, cocoa, milk and soy based protein and our primary packaging includes linerboard cartons, corrugated boxes and flexible and beverage packaging. In addition, our manufacturing operations use large quantities of natural gas and electricity. The cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely and we may experience shortages in commodity items as a result of commodity market fluctuations, availability, increased demand, weather conditions and natural disasters as well as other factors outside of our control. Higher prices for natural gas, electricity and fuel may also increase our production and delivery costs. Changes in the prices charged for 8Table of Contentsour products may lag behind changes in our energy and commodity costs. Accordingly, changes in commodity or energy costs may limit our ability to maintain existing margins and have a material adverse effect on our operating profits. If we fail to hedge and prices subsequently increase, or if we institute a hedge and prices subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or greater than our competitors’ costs and our financial results could be adversely affected.Labor strikes or work stoppages by our employees could harm our business.A significant number of our full-time production and maintenance employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A dispute with a union or employees represented by a union could result in production interruptions caused by work stoppages. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In the event of a work stoppage, we have contingency plans in place that would utilize the plant capabilities in conjunction with our ability to manufacture cereals in other locations to mitigate disruption to the business. However, there are limitations inherent in any plan to mitigate disruption to our business in the event of a work stoppage and, particularly in the case of a prolonged work stoppage, there can be no assurance that it would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Impairment in the carrying value of intangible assets could negatively impact our net worth. If our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or other long-term assets become impaired, we will be required to record additional impairment charges, which may be significant.Our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets, including goodwill, trademarks, trade names and other acquired intangibles. Intangibles and goodwill expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but our management reviews them for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired. Impairments to intangible assets may be caused by factors outside our control, such as increasing competitive pricing pressures, lower than expected revenue and profit growth rates, changes in industry EBITDA and revenue multiples, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital (interest rates, etc.) or the bankruptcy of a significant customer. These factors, along with other internal and external factors, could negatively impact our net worth and could have a significant impact on our fair valuation determination, which could then result in a material impairment charge in our results of operations. During fiscal years 2011 and 2010 we incurred impairment losses related to goodwill and trademark intangible assets and in fiscal 2013, we had an additional impairment of trademark intangible assets.We could have additional impairments in the future. See further discussion of these impairment losses in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 2 and 6 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” of our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements.If we pursue strategic acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses.From time to time, we evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that would further our strategic objectives. With respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of integration challenges. With respect to proposed divestitures of assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty in finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or our divestiture activities may require us to recognize impairment charges. Companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. Our corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, and adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. Future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, all of which could singly or collectively adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Unsuccessful implementation of business strategies to reduce costs may adversely affect our results of operations.Many of our costs, such as raw materials, energy and freight, are outside our control. Therefore, we must seek to reduce costs in other areas, such as operating efficiency. If we are not able to complete projects which are designed to reduce costs and increase operating efficiency on time or within budget, our operating profits may be adversely impacted. In addition, if the cost-saving initiatives we have implemented or any future cost-saving initiatives do not generate the expected cost savings and synergies, our results of operations may be adversely affected.Our inability to raise prices may adversely affect our results of operations.Our ability to raise prices for our products may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to industry supply, market demand, and promotional activity by competitors. If we are unable to increase prices for our products as may be necessary to cover cost increases, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, price increases typically generate lower sales volumes as customers then purchase fewer units. If these losses are greater than expected or if we lose distribution as a result of a price increase, our results of operations could be adversely affected.9Table of ContentsLoss of a significant customer may adversely affect our results of operations.A limited number of customer accounts represents a large percentage of our consolidated net sales. Our top ten customers represented approximately 55% of our gross sales for fiscal year 2013, and our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounted for approximately 20% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011. Additionally, our Active Nutrition segment has a high concentration of sales in the club category with approximately 90% of sales to two customers. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to maintain our level of sales and product distribution through high-volume food retailers, super centers and mass merchandisers. The competition to supply products to these high-volume stores is intense. Currently, we do not have long-term supply agreements with a substantial number of our customers, including our largest customers. These high-volume stores and mass merchandisers frequently reevaluate the products they carry. A decision by our major customers to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us, sell a national brand on an exclusive basis or change the manner of doing business with us could reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our results of operations. In the event of a loss of any of our large customers, or the bankruptcy or serious financial difficulty of any of our large customers, our sales may be adversely affected.Consolidation among the retail grocery and foodservice industries may hurt profit margins.Over the past several years, the retail grocery and foodservice industries have undergone significant consolidations and mass merchandisers are gaining market share. As this trend continues and such customers grow larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing, increased reliance on their own brand name products, increased emphasis on generic and other value brands, and increased promotional programs. If we are unable to respond to these requirements, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if the surviving entity is not a customer, we may lose significant business once held with the acquired retailer.If our food products become adulterated, misbranded, or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured.Selling food products involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. We may need to recall some or all of our products if they become adulterated, mislabeled or misbranded. This could result in destruction of product inventory, negative publicity, temporary plant closings, and substantial costs of compliance or remediation. Should consumption of any product cause injury, we may be liable for monetary damages as a result of a judgment against us. In addition, adverse publicity, including claims, whether or not valid, that our products or ingredients are unsafe or of poor quality may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Any of these events, including a significant product liability judgment against us, could result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products. This could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In coordination with our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our collective manufacturing or distribution capabilities resulting from weather, any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, repairs or enhancements at our facilities, or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and may require additional resources to restore our supply chain.We are currently dependent on third party manufacturers to manufacture products for our Active Nutrition segment. Our business could suffer as a result of a third-party manufacturer’s inability to produce our products for us on time and to our specifications.Our Active Nutrition segment does not own or operate any manufacturing facilities, and therefore we rely on independent third parties for the manufacture of this segment’s products, such as protein bars and shakes. The Active Nutrition segment’s business could be materially affected if we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these third parties, if one of these third parties ceases doing business with us or goes out of business. Additionally, we cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with these third-party manufacturers, such as increases in manufacturing costs, reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control and failure to meet production deadlines. The inability of a third party manufacturer to ship orders in a timely manner, in desirable quantities or to meet our safety, quality and social compliance standards could have a material adverse impact on our business.Termination of our material licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business.We manufacture and market our Pebbles™ products in the United States, Canada and several other locations pursuant to a long-term intellectual property license agreement. This license gives us the exclusive right (subject only to an exception regarding the sale of similar products in amusement and theme parks) to use the Flintstones characters in connection with breakfast cereal and to sell all Pebbles™ branded cereal products in those regions. If we were to breach any material term of this license agreement and not timely cure the breach, the licensor could terminate the agreement. If the licensor were to terminate our rights to use the 10Table of ContentsFlintstones characters or the Pebbles™ brand for this or any other reason, the loss of such rights could have a material adverse effect on our business.Global capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing and disrupt the operations of our suppliers and customers.U.S. and global credit markets have, from time to time, experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Events affecting the credit markets have also had an adverse effect on other financial markets in the U.S., which may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock or other equity securities or refinance our existing debt, sell our assets or borrow more money if necessary. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business or increase our interest expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.Changing currency exchange rates may adversely affect our earnings and financial position.We have operations and assets in the United States and Canada. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. We therefore, must translate our foreign assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. Consequently, fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar may negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements. To the extent we fail to manage our foreign currency exposure adequately, we may suffer losses in value of our net foreign currency investment, and our consolidated results of operations and financial position may be negatively affected.Violations of laws or regulations, as well as new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our business.The food production and marketing industry is subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including food safety requirements related to the ingredients, manufacture, processing, storage, marketing, advertising, labeling, and distribution of our products as well as those related to worker health and workplace safety. Our activities, both in and outside of the United States, are subject to extensive regulation. In the U.S. we are regulated by, among other federal and state authorities, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the U.S. Departments of Commerce and Labor. We are also regulated by similar authorities abroad. Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, healthcare costs, energy usage, immigration and other labor issues, any and/or all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business or those of our customers or suppliers. In addition, because we market and advertise our products, we could be the target of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations and may be subject to initiatives to limit or prohibit the marketing and advertising of our products to children. Changes in these laws or regulations or the introduction of new laws or regulations could increase the costs of doing business for us or our customers or suppliers or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. Further, if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any and/or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.As a publicly traded company, we are subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. Our efforts to comply with these requirements may result in an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time.We may not be able to operate successfully if we lose key personnel, are unable to hire qualified additional personnel or experience turnover of our management team.We are highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to operate and expand our business. If we lose one or more members of our senior management team, or if we fail to attract new employees, our business and financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be harmed.Changes in weather conditions, natural disasters and other events beyond our control can adversely affect our results of operations.Changes in weather conditions and natural disasters such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes, hurricanes, fires or pestilence, may affect the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials, including tree nuts, corn syrup, sugar, corn and wheat. Additionally, these events can result in reduced supplies of raw materials and longer recoveries of usable raw materials. Competing manufacturers can be affected differently by weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their suppliers and operations. 11Table of ContentsFailure to take adequate steps to reduce the likelihood or mitigate the potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, and/or require additional resources to restore our supply chain.We may experience losses or be subject to increased funding and expenses to our qualified pension plans, which could negatively impact our profits.We maintain a qualified defined benefit plan in the U.S. and Canada and we are obligated to ensure that these plans are funded in accordance with applicable regulations. In the event the stock market deteriorates, the funds in which we invest do not perform according to expectations, or the valuation of the projected benefit obligation increases due to changes in interest rates or other factors, we may be required to make significant cash contributions to these plans and recognize increased expense within our financial statements.Technology failures could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business.We increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information. For example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. Furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our personnel, customers and suppliers depends on information technology. Our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. Such interruptions could negatively impact our business. From the date of our separation from Ralcorp to July 1, 2013, Ralcorp provided the majority of our information technology services under the Transition Services Agreement we entered into in connection with the separation. On July 1, 2013, we completed the migration off of Ralcorp’s systems onto our own systems; however, we expect to continue to rely on Ralcorp for troubleshooting and support during a transition period subsequent to the migration. While no significant issues have surfaced to date, there can be no assurance that significant issues will not arise as we perform complete business cycles for the first time on our own systems and such issues could have a material adverse effect on the business. Our intellectual property rights are valuable and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands.We consider our intellectual property rights, particularly our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licenses, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and the policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business.We face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights. Any claims of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or rebrand our products or packaging, if feasible; divert management’s attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property. Any royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Additionally, a successful claim of infringement against us could result in our being required to pay significant damages, enter into costly license or royalty agreements or stop the sale of certain products, any and/or all of which could have a negative impact on our operating profits and harm our future prospects.We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that can impose significant costs and expose us to potential financial liabilities.We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including those limiting the discharge and release of pollutants into the environment and those regulating the transport, use, treatment, storage, disposal and remediation of, and exposure to, solid and hazardous wastes and materials. Certain environmental laws and regulations can impose joint and several liability without regard to fault on responsible parties, including past and present owners and operators of sites, related to cleaning up sites at which hazardous wastes or materials were disposed or released. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could result in severe fines and penalties by governments or courts of law. In addition, various current and likely future federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations could regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide and methane. We cannot predict the impact that such regulation may have, or that climate change may otherwise have, on our business.Future events, such as new or more stringent environmental laws and regulations, any new environmental claims, the discovery of currently unknown environmental conditions requiring response action, or more vigorous enforcement or a new interpretation 12Table of Contentsof existing environmental laws and regulations, might require us to incur additional costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.Pending and future litigation may lead us to incur significant costs.We are, or may become, party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business, which may include lawsuits or claims relating to contracts, intellectual property, product recalls, product liability, employment matters, environmental matters or other aspects of our business. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. The outcome of litigation is often difficult to predict, and the outcome of pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations.Our pending acquisition of Dakota Growers may not be consummated.On September 15, 2013, we entered into a stock purchase agreement with Viterra Inc. to acquire all of the stock of Agricore United Holdings, Inc. (“Agricore”). Agricore is the parent company of Dakota Growers Pasta Company, Inc., a manufacturer of dry pasta for retail and institutional markets. The closing of the acquisition is subject to various closing conditions, including the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting periods under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (which has been obtained), the receipt by Post of certain audited financial statements for Agricore, the divestiture by Agricore of certain unrelated businesses, as well as other customary closing conditions. We currently expect that the acquisition will occur in January 2014, subject to satisfaction or waiver of all applicable closing conditions. There can be no assurance, however, that all closing conditions will be satisfied and, if they are satisfied, that they will be satisfied in or prior to January 2014 in order for the closing to occur as of such date. The stock purchase agreement may be terminated by the mutual consent of Viterra and Post and under certain other circumstances, including if the closing has not occurred by February 28, 2014. Pursuant to the terms of the stock purchase agreement, we deposited $37 million with a third party escrow agent, which will be credited against the purchase price if the transaction closes. If the closing does not occur, the deposit will be returned to us, unless the closing does not occur due to a breach by us of the stock purchase agreement, in which case it will be payable to Viterra. This offering is not conditioned on the consummation of the acquisition of Dakota Growers, and if the acquisition is not consummated, the proceeds would be available to us for general corporate purposes, which could include, among other things, financing future acquisitions. Risks Related to Recent Financing Transactions We have substantial debt and high leverage, which could have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity position and which could adversely affect our business.We have a significant amount of debt. We had $1,375.0 million in aggregate principal amount of total debt as of September 30, 2013. Additionally, in November 2013, we issued $525.0 million principal value of 6.75% senior notes due December 2021. Our leverage could: •limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions;•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness;•limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all;•limit our flexibility to plan for and to adjust to changing business and market conditions in the industry in which we operate, and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future investments, capital expenditures, working capital, business activities and other general corporate requirements;•limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, for capital expenditures, to fund growth or for general corporate purposes, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity, particularly if any ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; and•subject us to higher levels of indebtedness than our competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce our flexibility in responding to increased competition.Our ability to meet expense and debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in consumer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. If we do not generate enough cash to pay our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell our assets, borrow more money or raise equity.13Table of ContentsThe indentures governing our senior notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to take certain actions and also require us to meet financial maintenance tests, failure to comply with which could have a material adverse effect on us.The indentures governing our senior notes contain restrictions, covenants and events of default that, among other things, require us to satisfy certain financial tests, maintain certain financial ratios and restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and/or refinance our existing indebtedness. The terms of these financing arrangements will, and any future indebtedness may, impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could limit our ability to pay dividends, respond to market conditions, provide for capital investment needs or take advantage of business opportunities by limiting the amount of additional borrowings we may incur. These restrictions may include compliance with, or maintenance of, certain financial tests and ratios and may limit or prohibit our ability to, among other things:•borrow money or guarantee debt; •create liens; •pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; •make specified types of investments and acquisitions; •enter into or permit to exist contractual limits on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us;•enter into transactions with affiliates; and •sell assets or merge with other companies. These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities.Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions.To service our indebtedness and other cash needs, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.Our ability to satisfy our other debt obligations and to fund any planned capital expenditures, dividends and other cash needs will depend in part upon the future financial and operating performance of our subsidiaries and upon our ability to renew or refinance borrowings. Prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments.If we are unable to make payments or refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we may consider other options, including:•sales of assets;•sales of equity;•reduction or delay of capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances; or•negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt.Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all.Risks Related to our Separation from RalcorpOur historical financial results as a business segment of Ralcorp may not be representative of our results as a separate, stand-alone company.A portion of the historical financial information we have included in this document has been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Ralcorp. Our historical financial information accordingly does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we operated as a separate, stand-alone company during the periods presented or those that we may achieve in the future primarily as a result of the following factors:•Prior to the separation, our business was operated by Ralcorp as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. Ralcorp or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to, legal, treasury, accounting, auditing, risk management, information technology, human resources, corporate affairs, tax administration, certain governance functions (including compliance with the 14Table of ContentsSarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and internal audit) and external reporting. Our historical financial results for periods prior to the separation include allocations of corporate expenses from Ralcorp for these and similar functions. These allocations may be less than the comparable expenses we incur as a separate publicly traded company;•Prior to the separation, our business was integrated with the other businesses of Ralcorp. Historically, we have shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. The loss of the benefits of doing business as part of Ralcorp could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition;•Prior to the separation, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including advertising and trade promotions, research and development and capital expenditures, were satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of Ralcorp. In connection with the separation, we incurred substantial indebtedness, as discussed above; and•The cost of capital for our business may be higher than Ralcorp’s cost of capital prior to the separation because Ralcorp’s cost of debt prior to the separation may have been lower than ours following the separation.We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expected to achieve from our separation from Ralcorp.By separating from Ralcorp there is a risk that our company may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than we would have been if we were still a part of Ralcorp. As part of Ralcorp we were able to enjoy certain benefits from Ralcorp’s operating diversity and purchasing and borrowing leverage. We may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expected to achieve as a stand-alone, independent company.Potential liabilities that would adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations may arise due to fraudulent transfer considerations.In connection with the separation, Ralcorp undertook financing transactions which, along with the separation and the financing transactions involving us, may be subject to federal and state fraudulent conveyance and transfer laws. If a court were to determine under these laws that, at the time of the separation, any entity involved in these transactions or the separation:•was insolvent;•was rendered insolvent by reason of the separation;•had remaining assets constituting unreasonably small capital; or•intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay these debts as they matured,the court could void the separation, in whole or in part, as a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. The court could then require our shareholders to return to Ralcorp some or all of the shares of our common stock issued pursuant to the separation, or require Ralcorp or us, as the case may be, to fund liabilities of the other company for the benefit of creditors. The measure of insolvency will vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied. Generally speaking, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if the fair value of its assets were less than the amount of its liabilities or if it incurred debt beyond its ability to repay the debt as it matures.We may have a significant indemnity obligation to Ralcorp if the separation and/or certain related transactions are treated as a taxable transaction.We are a party to a Tax Allocation Agreement with Ralcorp, which sets out each party’s rights and obligations with respect to federal, state, local and foreign taxes for periods before and after the separation (including taxes that may arise if the separation and/or certain related transactions do not qualify for tax-free treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the “Code”) and related matters such as the filing of tax returns and the conduct of the parties in Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other audits.Ralcorp received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that, among other things, the separation and certain related transactions qualify for tax-free treatment under the Code. In addition, Ralcorp obtained an opinion from its legal counsel substantially to the effect that, among other things, the separation and certain related transactions qualify for tax-free treatment under the Code. The private letter ruling from the IRS is not binding on the IRS if the factual representations or assumptions made therein are untrue or incomplete in any material respect. Furthermore, the IRS will not rule on whether a distribution satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under the Code. Rather, the ruling is based upon representations by Ralcorp that these conditions have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in such representations could invalidate the ruling. The opinion of counsel referred to above addressed all of the requirements necessary for the separation and certain related transactions to obtain tax-free treatment under the Code, relied on the IRS private letter ruling as to matters covered by the ruling, and was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations made by Ralcorp and us, which if incorrect or 15Table of Contentsinaccurate in any material respect would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in such opinion. The opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the opinion.Notwithstanding receipt by Ralcorp of the private letter ruling and opinion of counsel, the IRS could determine that the separation and/or certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings which were included in the request for the private letter ruling is false or has been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the IRS ruling. Furthermore, events subsequent to the distribution could cause Ralcorp to recognize gain on the separation, including as a result of Section 355(e) of the Code.Pursuant to the Tax Allocation Agreement, in certain cases, we will be required to indemnify Ralcorp for taxes resulting from the separation and/or certain related transactions not qualifying for tax-free treatment for United States federal income tax purposes. Pursuant to the Tax Allocation Agreement, we will be required to indemnify Ralcorp for losses and taxes of Ralcorp resulting from the breach of certain covenants made by us and for certain taxable gain that could be recognized by Ralcorp, including as a result of certain acquisitions of our stock or assets. Ralcorp is obligated to indemnify us in certain cases under the Tax Allocation Agreement, including in relevant part for taxes and certain losses incurred by us if the separation and certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment because of actions or failures to act by Ralcorp or any of its affiliates. If we are required to indemnify Ralcorp under the circumstances set forth in the Tax Allocation Agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial position. Our indemnification obligations to Ralcorp are not limited by any maximum amount.The tax rules applicable to the separation and our indemnification obligations contained in the Tax Allocation Agreement may restrict us from taking certain actions, engaging in certain corporate transactions or from raising equity capital beyond certain thresholds for a period of time after the separation.The distribution of Post would be taxable to Ralcorp if such distribution was part of a “plan or series of related transactions” pursuant to which one or more persons acquires directly or indirectly stock representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in Ralcorp or Post. Under current U.S. federal income tax law, acquisitions that occur during the four-year period that begins two years before the date of the distribution are presumed to occur pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions, unless it is established that the acquisition is not pursuant to a plan or series of transactions that includes the distribution. U.S. Treasury regulations currently in effect generally provide that whether an acquisition and a distribution are part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, specific factors described in the U.S. Treasury regulations. In addition, the U.S. Treasury regulations provide several “safe harbors” for acquisitions that are not considered to be part of a plan.These rules and our indemnification obligations contained in the Tax Allocation Agreement limit our ability during the two-year period following the distribution to enter into certain transactions that may be advantageous to us and our shareholders, particularly issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs, repurchasing equity securities, disposing of certain assets, engaging in mergers and acquisitions and, under certain circumstances, acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities or agreeing to be acquired.In addition, the covenants in, and our indemnity obligations under, the Tax Allocation Agreement may limit our ability to take certain actions, pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. The Tax Allocation Agreement contains covenants that restrict us from taking any action which could be reasonably expected to cause the separation and certain related transactions not to be tax free.Our ability to operate our business effectively may suffer if we do not establish our own financial, administrative and other support functions necessary to operate as a separate, stand-alone company, and the transition services Ralcorp has agreed to provide may not be sufficient for our needs. Prior to the separation, we relied on financial, administrative and other resources, including the business relationships, of Ralcorp to support the operation of our business. While we have established independent systems for many purposes, Ralcorp continues to provide us certain transition services and is expected to do so until 2014. We may not be able to adequately replace those resources or replace them at the same cost, and we may not be able to successfully put in place the financial, operational and managerial resources necessary to operate independently within the time periods prescribed by the Transition Services Agreement. Unanticipated delays in transitioning from the services Ralcorp provides could lead to duplicative costs and other inefficiencies. Any failure or significant downtime in our own financial or administrative systems or in Ralcorp’s financial or administrative systems during the transition period, or delays or inefficiencies caused by the acquisition of Ralcorp by ConAgra Foods, Inc., could impact our results or prevent us from performing other administrative services and financial reporting on a timely basis and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our agreements with Ralcorp involve conflicts of interest and may therefore have materially disadvantageous terms to us.We have certain agreements with Ralcorp, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Tax Allocation Agreement, Employee Matters Agreement and Transition Services Agreement which set forth the main terms of the separation and provide a 16Table of Contentsframework for our relationship with Ralcorp following the separation. The terms of these agreements and the separation were determined at a time when we were still part of Ralcorp and therefore involve conflicts of interest. Accordingly, such agreements may not reflect terms that could have been reached on an arm’s-length basis between unaffiliated parties, which could have been materially more favorable to us.We may incur material costs and expenses which could adversely affect our profitability as a result of our separation from Ralcorp.As a result of our separation from Ralcorp, we may incur costs and expenses greater than those we incurred prior to the separation. These increased costs and expenses may arise from various factors, including financial reporting, costs associated with complying with federal securities laws (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002), tax administration, and legal and human resources related functions. It is possible that these costs will be material to our business.If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our stock price may suffer.Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to perform a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures, our management will be required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent auditors will be required to issue an opinion on their audit of our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our auditors identify material weaknesses in our internal controls, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may consequently suffer. As of September 30, 2013, management had determined that our internal control over financial reporting is effective.Risks Related to Our Common StockYour percentage ownership in Post may be diluted in the future.As with any publicly traded company, your percentage ownership in Post may be diluted in the future because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including equity awards that we expect will be granted to our directors, officers and employees and the accelerated vesting of other equity awards. For a more detailed description of the stock incentive plan, see “Executive Compensation.”The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile.The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risk factors listed in this annual report or for reasons unrelated to our specific performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative developments relating to our customers, competitors or suppliers, as well as general economic and industry conditions.Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Missouri law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Missouri law contain provisions intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive and which incentivize prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others:•the board of directors is divided into three classes with staggered terms;•the board of directors fixes the number of members on the board;•elimination of the rights of our shareholders to act by written consent (except when such consent is unanimous) and to call shareholder meetings;•rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings;•the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval;•supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our articles of incorporation and bylaws;17Table of Contents•anti-takeover provisions of Missouri law which may prevent us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder, or which may deter third parties from acquiring amounts of our common stock above certain thresholds; and•limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNot applicable. 