Item 1A. Risk FactorsYou should consider these risk factors, in addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, in deciding whether to make an investment in FS Bancorp’s stock.Risks Related to Our BusinessOur financial condition and results of operations are dependent on the economy, particularly in 1st Security Bank of Washington’s market area. The current economic conditions in the market area served may continue to impact our earnings adversely and could increase the credit risk of our loan portfolio.Our primary market area is concentrated in the Puget Sound region of Washington. Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. Adverse economic conditions in the region, including an increase in the level of unemployment, a decline in real estate values and the loss of major employers such as Washington Mutual in 2008, have reduced our rate of growth, affected the customers’ ability to repay loans and adversely impacted our financial condition and earnings. General economic conditions, including inflation, unemployment and money supply fluctuations, also may affect our profitability adversely. Weak economic conditions and ongoing strains in the financial and housing markets have resulted in higher levels of loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures and a decline in the values of the collateral securing our loans.A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market area we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations:•demand for our products and services may decline;•loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;•collateral for our loans may further decline in value, in turn reducing customer's borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans;•the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and•the amount of our low-cost or noninterest-bearing deposits may decrease. A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The ongoing debate in Congress regarding the national debt ceiling and federal budget deficit and concerns over the United States' credit rating (which was downgraded by Standard & Poor's on August 5, 2011), the European sovereign debt crisis, the overall weakness in the economy and continued high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and diminished expectations for the economy. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies and a decline in demand for our 39Table of Contents products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition. Furthermore, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve Board increases the federal funds rate, or more rapidly curtails purchases of mortgage-backed securities, market interest rates would likely rise, which may negatively affect the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to a large percentage of consumer loans. Our consumer loans accounted for $122.7 million or 42.7% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2013 of which $91.2 million (74.3% of total consumer loans) consisted of indirect home improvement loans (some of which were not secured by a lien on the real property), $16.8 million (13.7% of total consumer loans) consisted of solar loans, $11.2 million (9.1% of total consumer loans) consisted of marine loans, secured by boats, $1.2 million (1.0% of total consumer loans) consisted of automobile loans, $553,000 (0.5% of total consumer loans) consisted of recreational loans, mainly secured by recreational vehicles and motorcycles, $463,000 (0.4% of total consumer loans) consisted of home improvement consumer loans and $1.3 million (1.0% of total consumer loans) consisted of other consumer loans. Generally, we consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on owner-occupied, one-to-four-family residential properties. As a result of our large portfolio of consumer loans, it may become necessary to increase the level of provision for our loan losses, which would reduce profits. Consumer loans generally entail greater risk than do one-to-four-family residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of loans that are secured by rapidly depreciable assets, such as automobiles and boats. In these cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. Most of our consumer loans are originated indirectly by or through third parties, which presents greater risk than our direct lending products which involves direct contact between us and the borrower. Unlike a direct loan where the borrower makes an application directly to us, in these loans the dealer, who has a direct financial interest in the loan transaction, assists the borrower in preparing the loan application. Although we disburse the loan proceeds directly to the borrower upon receipt of a “completion certificate” signed by the borrower, because we do not have direct contact with the borrower, these loans may be more susceptible to a material misstatement on the loan application or having the loan proceeds being misused by the borrower or the dealer. In addition, if the work is not properly performed, the borrower may cease payment on the loan until the problem is rectified. Indirect home improvement and solar loans totaled $108.0 million or 37.6% of our total gross loan portfolio at December 31, 2013 and are originated through a network of approximately 131 home improvement contractors and dealers located in Washington, Oregon and California. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had $16.8 million in loans to borrowers that reside in California. Adverse economic conditions in California, including an increase in the level of unemployment, or a decline in real estate values could adversely affect the ability of these borrowers to make loan payments to us. In addition, we rely on three dealers for a majority or 58.2% of our loan volume so the loss of one of these dealers can have a significant effect on our loan origination volume. See Item 1., “Business of 1st Security Bank of Washington - Lending Activities - Consumer Lending” and “- Asset Quality.” Our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in making, continuing and growing relationships with home improvement contractors and dealers. Our indirect home improvement lending, which is the largest component of our loan portfolio, is reliant on our relationships with home improvement contractors and dealers. In particular, our indirect home improvement loan operations depend in large part upon our ability to establish and maintain relationships with reputable contractors and dealers who originate loans at the point of sale. Our indirect home improvement contractor/dealer network is currently comprised of approximately 131 active contractors and dealers with businesses located throughout Washington, Oregon and California with approximately three contractors/dealers responsible for more than half of this loan volume. Indirect 40Table of Contents home improvement and solar loans totaled $108.0 million, or 37.6% of our total gross loan portfolio, as of December 31, 2013, reflecting approximately 12,000 loans with an average balance of approximately $9,000. We have relationships with home improvement contractors/dealers, however, the relationships generally are not exclusive, some of them are newly established and they may be terminated at any time. As a result of the recent economic downturn and contraction of credit to both contractors/dealers and their customers, there has been an increase in business closures and our existing contractor/dealer base has experienced decreased sales and loan volume, and may continue to experience decreased sales and loan volume in the future, which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if a competitor were to offer better service or more attractive loan products to our contractor/dealer partners, it is possible that our partners would terminate their relationships with us or recommend customers to our competitors. If we are unable to continue to grow our existing relationships and develop new relationships, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have also expanded consumer operations to include originations in California. We have adopted limits on California lending to be no more than 20% of the total consumer portfolio. As of December 31, 2013, the maximum level of California loans would be $24.5 million. As of December 31, 2013, we held $16.8 million of these indirect home improvement loans in California.A significant portion of our business involves commercial business, commercial construction and commercial real estate lending which is subject to various risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.At December 31, 2013, our loan portfolio included $128.5 million of commercial real estate, commercial construction, multi-family real estate loans and commercial business loans, or 44.7% of our total gross loan portfolio, compared to $76.6 million, or 32.1%, at December 31, 2009. We have been increasing and intend to continue to increase, subject to market demand, the origination of commercial real estate and commercial business loans. The credit risk related to these types of loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one-to-four-family residential loans because the repayment of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans typically is dependent on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers’ business and the value of the real estate securing the loan as collateral, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions.Our renewed focus on these types of lending will increase the risk profile relative to traditional one-to-four-family lenders as we continue to implement our business strategy. Although commercial business and commercial real estate loans are intended to enhance the average yield of the earning assets, they do involve a different, and possibly higher, level of risk of delinquency or collection than generally associated with one-to-four-family loans for a number of reasons. Among other factors, these loans involve larger balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. Since commercial business, commercial construction and commercial real estate loans generally have large balances, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of these loans, we may need to significantly increase the provision for loan losses since any resulting charge‑offs will be larger on a per loan basis. Consequently, this could materially adversely affect our future earnings. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans also requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. Finally, if foreclosure occurs on a commercial real estate loan, the holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for a one-to-four-family residence because the secondary market for most types of commercial real estate is not readily liquid, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these assets. See Item 1., “Business of 1st Security Bank of Washington - Lending Activities - Commercial Real Estate Lending” of this Form 10-K.We are expanding the mortgage warehouse lending program which is subject to various risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In October 2009, we commenced a mortgage warehouse lending program. Our mortgage warehouse lending program focuses on six Pacific Northwest mortgage banking companies. Short term funding is provided to the mortgage banking companies for the purpose of originating residential mortgage loans for sale into the secondary market. Our warehouse lending lines are secured by the underlying notes associated with mortgage loans made to borrowers by the mortgage banking company and we generally require guarantees from the principle shareholder(s) of the mortgage banking company. These loans are repaid when the note is sold by the mortgage bank into the secondary market, with the proceeds from the sale used to pay down the outstanding loan before being dispersed to the mortgage bank. As of 41Table of Contents December 31, 2013, we had approved warehouse lending lines in varying amounts from $4.0 million to $9.0 million with each of the six companies, for an aggregate amount of $38.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we processed approximately 2,000 loans and funded approximately $453.8 million under this program. Our mortgage warehouse related gross revenues totaled $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2013, there was $4.0 million in warehouse lines outstanding, compared to $58.0 million approved in warehouse lending lines with $38.9 million outstanding at December 31, 2012.There are numerous risks associated with this type of lending, which include, without limitation, (i) credit risks relating to the mortgage bankers that borrow from us, (ii) the risk of intentional misrepresentation or fraud by any of these mortgage bankers, (iii) changes in the market value of mortgage loans originated by the mortgage banker, the sale of which is the expected source of repayment of the borrowings under the warehouse line of credit, due to changes in interest rates during the time in warehouse, (iv) unsalable or impaired mortgage loans so originated, which could lead to decreased collateral value and the failure of a purchaser of the mortgage loan to purchase the loan from the mortgage banker, and (v) the volatility of mortgage loan originations. Additionally, the impact of interest rates on our mortgage warehouse lending business can be significant. Changes in interest rates can impact the number of residential mortgages originated and initially funded under mortgage warehouse lines of credit and thus our mortgage warehouse related revenues. A decline in mortgage rates generally increases the demand for mortgage loans. Conversely, in a constant or increasing rate environment, we would expect fewer loans to be originated. Our lending limit may limit growth.The Board of Directors have implemented a policy lending limit that it believes matches the Washington State legal lending limit. Our policy limits loans to one borrower and the borrower’s related entities to 20% of our unimpaired capital and surplus, or approximately $11.2 million at December 31, 2013. Management has adopted a limit of $9.0 million for risk mitigation purposes. These amounts are significantly less than that of many of our competitors and may discourage potential commercial borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our lending limit from doing business with us. The lending limit also impacts the efficiency of our commercial lending operation because it tends to lower the average loan size, which means a higher number of transactions have to be generated to achieve the same portfolio volume. We can accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy is not efficient or always available. We may not be able to attract or maintain clients seeking larger loans or may not be able to sell participations in these loans on terms that are considered favorable. We continue to expand residential construction lending which is subject to various risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.To assist in expanding our residential construction lending program, we hired several new experienced construction lenders in the third quarter of 2011 with the focus of lending up to 100% of total risk-based capital in construction and development lending. Our residential construction lending program focuses on the origination of loans to builders, both pre-sold and speculative, for the purpose of constructing and selling primarily one-to-four-family residences within the market area. Our construction and development loans totaled $41.6 million, or 14.5%, of total gross loans at December 31, 2013. The Company's total risk-based capital was $67.2 million as of December 31, 2013.Construction and development lending contains the inherent difficulty in estimating both a property’s value at completion of the project and the estimated cost (including interest) of the project. If the estimate of construction cost proves to be inaccurate, we may be required to advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the project. If the estimate of value upon completion proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted at, or prior to, the maturity of the loan with a project the value of which is insufficient to assure full repayment. Speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. Loans on land under development or held for future construction pose additional risk because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the collateral. These risks can be significantly impacted by supply and demand. As a result, this type of lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor themselves to repay principal and interest.42Table of Contents Revenue from mortgage banking operations are sensitive to changes in economic conditions, decreased economic activity, a slowdown in the housing market, higher interest rates or new legislation and may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In an effort to diversify our revenue streams and to generate additional income, we hired several experienced bankers to reintroduce in-house originations of residential mortgage loans through a mortgage banking program in 2012. We expect to hire additional staff throughout 2014 to continue loan volume growth. Our mortgage banking program, which started in the fourth quarter of 2011, is dependent upon our ability to originate and sell loans to investors. Mortgage revenues are primarily generated from gains on the sale of one-to-four-family residential loans underwritten to programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA, VA, USDA Rural Housing and other non-GSE investors. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. We sell loans on both a servicing retained and servicing released basis utilizing market execution analysis and customer relationships as the criteria. Any future changes in these programs, our eligibility to participate in these programs, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of these entities could, in turn, materially adversely affect the success of our mortgage banking program and, consequently, our results of operations. Mortgage loan production levels are sensitive to changes in economic conditions and can suffer from decreased economic activity, a slowdown in the housing market or higher interest rates. Generally, any sustained period of decreased economic activity or higher interest rates could adversely affect mortgage originations and, consequently, adversely affect income from mortgage lending activities. Currently, as a result of government actions and other economic factors related to the economic downturn, interest rates are at historically low levels. It is unknown how long interest rates will remain at these historically low levels. To the extent that market interest rates increase in the future, our ability to originate mortgage loans held for sale may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors. This would adversely affect our ability to generate mortgage revenues, and consequently noninterest income. Because interest rates depend on factors outside of our control, we cannot eliminate the interest rate risk associated with our mortgage operations. Our results of operations will also be affected by the amount of noninterest expense associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs. If we cannot generate a sufficient volume of loans for sale, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, during periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations.Finally, deteriorating economic conditions may also increase the potential for home buyers to default on their mortgages. In certain of these cases where we have originated loans and sold them to investors, we may be required to repurchase loans or provide a financial settlement to investors if it is proven that the borrower failed to provide full and accurate information on or related to their loan application or for which appraisals have not been acceptable or when the loan was not underwritten in accordance with the loan program specified by the loan investor. Such repurchases or settlements would also adversely affect our net income. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could be reduced.We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review loans and our historical loss and delinquency experience, and evaluates economic conditions. Management recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.8% of total gross loans, and 462.5% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2013, compared to 1.7% and 2.0% of total gross loans, and 246.5% and 195.1% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as 43Table of Contents required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The unseasoned nature of our commercial business, commercial construction and commercial real estate portfolios may result in difficulties in judging collectability, which may lead to additional provisions or charge-offs, which would reduce our profits.During the periods from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2013, we originated $152.9 million of loans with an outstanding balance of $102.0 million, as of December 31, 2013. As a result, a significant portion of the portfolio is relatively unseasoned and, although these loans are not to subprime borrowers, they may not have had sufficient time to perform to properly indicate the magnitude of potential losses. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance.Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. At December 31, 2013, $20.8 million, or 7.2% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by first liens on one-to-four-family residential loans and our home equity lines of credit totaled $15.2 million or 5.3% of our total loan portfolio. These types of loans are generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the Washington housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans. Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, they may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. Further, the majority of our home equity lines of credit consist of second mortgage loans. For those home equity lines secured by a second mortgage, it is unlikely that we will be successful in recovering all or a portion of our loan proceeds in the event of default unless we are prepared to repay the first mortgage loan and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. For these reasons, we may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses which would adversely affect our net income. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risk. From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. Currently, we are expanding existing commercial real estate, commercial business and residential construction lending programs. We also reintroduced in-house originations of residential mortgage loans through a mortgage banking program in the fourth quarter of 2011. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business and/or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business and/or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.If we are unable to successfully integrate new personnel hired to grow our mortgage banking operations, our business may be adversely affected.We have recently hired a number of experienced bankers in the area of residential mortgage banking. We expect to hire additional personnel in this area in order to successfully carryout our business plan. The difficulties in hiring and training new personnel include integrating personnel with different business backgrounds, and combining different corporate cultures, while retaining other key employees. The process of integrating personnel could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in our operations and the loss of customers and key personnel. In addition, we may not realize expected revenue increases and other projected benefits from the increased emphasis in this lending 44Table of Contents area. Any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with integrating and growing of this portion of our operations could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations or otherwise adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated results.Changes in interest rates may reduce our net interest income, and may result in higher defaults in a rising rate environment. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but these changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and (iii) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Further, a prolonged period of exceptionally low market interest rates, such as we are currently experiencing and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has indicated it intends to maintain, limits our ability to lower our interest expense, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may decrease as our loans reprice or are originated at these low market rates. Accordingly, our net interest income may decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet or projected operating results. See Item 7., “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Asset and Liability Management and Market Risk” of this Form 10-K.Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans or other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Washington markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. See Item 7., “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity” included herein.Loss of key employees may disrupt relationships with certain customers. Our business is primarily relationship-driven in that some of our business development and relationship managers have extensive customer relationships. Loss of such key personnel could result in the loss of some of our customers. While we believe the relationship with key producers is good, we cannot guarantee that all of the key personnel will remain with our organization. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. These competitors primarily include national, regional and internet banks within the various markets in which we operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, mortgage banking finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry 45Table of Contents could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors including the following: •the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top-quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets;•the ability to expand our market position;•the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands;•the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors;•customer satisfaction with our level of service; and•industry and general economic trends.Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1., “Business - Competition” of this Form 10-K.We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations, including new financial reform legislation recently enacted by Congress that is expected to increase our costs of operations.We are currently subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the FDIC and the DFI. The FDIC and the DFI govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the DFI. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on an institution’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, restrict mergers and acquisitions, investments, access to capital, the location of banking offices, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Further, changes in accounting standards can be both difficult to predict and involve judgment and discretion in their interpretation by us and our independent accounting firms. These changes could materially impact, potentially even retroactively, how we report our financial condition and results of our operations as could our interpretation of those changes.Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and will affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years.46Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Financial institutions such as 1st Security Bank of Washington with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk-based capital requirements for savings and loan holding companies and bank holding companies that are no less stringent than those applicable to banks, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company level and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in the Bank, and will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier 1 capital.The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions, and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008. The legislation also increases the required minimum reserve ratio for the DIF, from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, and directs the FDIC to offset the effects of increased assessments on depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets.Effective December 10, 2013, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, federal banking and securities regulators issued final rules to implement Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act (the Volcker Rule). Generally, subject to a transition period and certain exceptions, the Volcker Rule restricts insured depository institutions and their affiliated companies from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, investing in funds with collateral comprised of less than 100% loans that are not registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and from engaging in hedging activities that do not hedge a specific identified risk. After the transition period, the Volcker Rule prohibitions and restrictions will apply to banking entities unless an exception applies. We are analyzing the impact of the Volcker Rule on our investment portfolio and we anticipate changes to our investment strategies, which could negatively affect our earnings.The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business will not be known until all of the regulations implementing the statute are adopted and implemented. As a result, we cannot at this time predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act will impact our business, operations or financial condition. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations may require us to make changes to our business and operations and will likely result in additional costs and divert management’s time from other business activities, any of which may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.Any other additional changes in our regulation and oversight, whether in the form of new laws, rules or regulations, could likewise make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects.The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules is uncertain. On July 9, 2013, the FDIC and the other federal bank regulatory agencies issued a final rule that will revise their risk-based capital requirements and the method for calculating risk-weighted assets to make them consistent with agreements that were reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule applies to all depository institutions, top-tier bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $500 million or more and top-tier savings and loan holding companies. Among other things, the rule establishes a new common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement (4.5% of risk-weighted assets), increases the minimum Tier 1 capital to risk-based assets requirement (from 4.0% to 6.0% of risk-weighted assets) and assigns a higher risk weight (150%) to exposures that are more than 90 days past due or are on nonaccrual status and to certain commercial real estate facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property. The final rule also requires unrealized gains and losses on certain “available-for-sale” securities holdings to be included for purposes of calculating regulatory capital requirements unless a one-time opt-in or opt-out is exercised. The rule limits a banking organization’s capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if the banking organization does not hold a “capital conservation buffer” consisting of 2.5% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets in addition to the 47Table of Contents amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The final rule becomes effective for 1st Security Bank of Washington on January 1, 2015. The capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in beginning January 1, 2016 and ending January 1, 2019, when the full capital conservation buffer requirement will be effective.The application of these more stringent capital requirements for FS Bancorp, Inc. and 1st Security Bank of Washington could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk-based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. Specifically, beginning in 2016, 1st Security Bank of Washington‘s ability to pay dividends will be limited if does not have the capital conservation buffer required by the new capital rules, which may limit our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. See “Regulation and Supervision - Federal Banking Regulation - New Capital Rule.”We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality, as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business. The operations of our business, including our interaction with customers, are increasingly done via electronic means, and this has increased our risks related to cybersecurity. We are exposed to the risk of cyber-attacks in the normal course of business. In general, cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. We have observed an increased level of attention in the industry focused on cyber-attacks that include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data or causing operational disruption. Cyber-attacks may also be carried out in a manner that does not require gaining unauthorized access, such as by causing denial-of-service attacks on websites. Cyber-attacks may be carried out by third parties or insiders using techniques that range from highly sophisticated efforts to electronically circumvent network security or overwhelm websites to more traditional intelligence gathering and social engineering aimed at obtaining information necessary to gain access. The objectives of cyber-attacks vary widely and can include theft of financial assets, intellectual property, or other sensitive information, including the information belonging to our banking customers. Cyber-attacks may also be directed at disrupting our operations. While we have not incurred any material losses related to cyber-attacks, nor are we aware of any specific or threatened cyber-incidents as of the date of this report, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences if we fall victim to successful cyber-attacks. Such negative consequences could include remediation costs that may include liability for stolen assets or information and repairing system damage that may have been caused; increased cybersecurity protection costs that may include organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and 48Table of Contents protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third-party experts and consultants; lost revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack; litigation; and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle becomes impaired, our earnings and shareholders’ equity could decrease.At December 31, 2013 we owned $1.7 million in FHLB of Seattle stock. We are required to own this stock to be a member of and to obtain advances from the FHLB. This stock is not marketable and can only be redeemed by our FHLB, with the permission of its regulators as the FHLB of Seattle is currently operating under a consent order entered into with its primary federal regulator. Our FHLB's financial condition is linked, in part, to the eleven other members of the FHLB System and to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their capital, which would cause our FHLB stock to be deemed impaired, resulting in a decrease in our earnings and assets.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.49Table of Contents 