Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information contained in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Economic Factors Market conditions, as well as global and regional economic downturns that adversely affect the demand for the end-use products that contain TiO2 or our other products, could adversely affect the profitability of our operations and the prices at which we can sell our products, negatively impacting our financial results. Our revenue and profitability is largely dependent on the TiO2 industry either through direct sales of TiO2 by our pigment business, or to TiO2 producers by our mineral sands business sales. TiO2 is a chemical used in many “quality of life” products for which demand historically has been linked to global, regional and local GDP and discretionary spending, which can be negatively impacted by regional and world events or economic conditions. Such events are likely to cause a decrease in demand for our products and, as a result, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The future profitability of our operations, and cash flows generated by those operations, also will be affected by the available supply of our products in the market, such as TiO2, feedstock, and zircon. The markets for many of our products have seasonally affected sales patterns. The demand for TiO2 during a given year is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Because TiO2 is widely used in paint and other coatings, titanium feedstock is in higher demand prior to the painting season in the Northern Hemisphere (spring and summer), and pig iron is in lower demand during the European summer holidays, when many steel plants and foundries undergo maintenance. Zircon generally is a non-seasonal product but is negatively impacted by the winter and Chinese New Year celebrations due to reduced zircon demand from China. We may be adversely affected by existing or future cyclical changes, and such conditions may be sustained or further aggravated by anticipated or unanticipated changes in regional weather conditions. For example, poor weather conditions in a region can lead to an abbreviated painting season, which can depress consumer sales of paint products that use TiO2. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The financial condition and results of operations of our operating entities outside the United States are reported in various foreign currencies, primarily South African Rand, Australian Dollars and Euros, and then converted into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in the financial statements. As a result, any volatility of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies creates uncertainty for and may have a negative impact on reported sales and operating margin. We have made a U.S. dollar functional currency election for both Australian financial reporting and federal income tax purposes. On this basis, our Australian entities report their results of operations on a U.S. dollar basis. In addition, our operating entities often need to convert currencies they receive for their products into currencies in which they purchase raw materials or pay for services, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates. In order to manage this risk, we have, from time to time, entered into forward contracts to buy and sell foreign currencies as “economic hedges” for these foreign currency transactions. Our operations may be negatively impacted by inflation. Our profits and financial condition could be adversely affected when cost inflation is not offset by devaluation in operating currencies or an increase in the price of our products. Our operations have been affected by inflation in the countries in which they have operated in recent years. Working costs and wages in South Africa and Australia have increased in recent years, resulting in significant cost pressures for the mining industry. 13 Table of Contents As an emerging market, South Africa poses a challenging array of long-term political, economic, financial and operational risks. • South Africa has been undergoing political and economic challenges. Changes to or instability in the economic or political environment in South Africa, especially if such changes create political instability, actual or potential shortages of production materials or labor unrest, could result in production delays and production shortfalls, and materially impact our production and results of operations. • In South Africa, our mining and smelting operations depend on electrical power generated by Eskom, the state-owned sole energy supplier. The contractual Notified Maximum Demand for the Namakwa Sands smelter and KZN Sands smelter sites are 72 mega volt amperes (“MVA”) and 87 MVA, respectively. South African electricity prices have risen during the past few years, and future increases are likely. Additionally, our KZN Sands operations currently use 245,277 gigajoules of Sasol gas, which is available only from Sasol Limited; however, we could replace approximately 30% to 40% of our current Sasol gas usage with furnace off-gas produced by KZN Sands, if necessary. KZN Sands is currently in the process of increasing its use of furnace off-gas. • We use significant amounts of water in our operations, which could impose significant costs. Use of water in South Africa is governed by water-use license. Our KZN mining operation in South Africa uses water to transport the slimes or sand from reclaimed areas to the processing plant and to the tailings facilities. Reduced water availability may result in rationing, which could impact production rates or result in increased water costs. However, our KZN Sands operation can use sea water, which is readily available since KZN Sands is located in a coastal region, although using sea water instead of fresh water would increase operational costs due to the desalination process, which may not be offset against lower water operating costs. • Under South African law, our South African mining operations are subject to water-use licenses that govern each operation. These licenses require, among other conditions, that mining operations achieve and maintain certain water quality limits for all water discharges, where applicable. Our South African operations that came into existence after the adoption of the National Water Act, No. 36 of 1998 have applied for and been issued the required water-use licenses. However, changes to water-use licenses could affect our operational results and financial condition. • The South African government may sharpen its focus on intervention in mining through various means including increased taxation, greater control and conditions on the distribution of mineral rights, poverty alleviation, and job creation. Such measures have not yet been defined, and the impact the measures may have on our business remains uncertain. • Changes to the revised Mineral and Petroleum Resources Developmental Act of 2002 (the “MPRDA”) have been incorporated into the 2013 MPRDA amendment, and are awaiting approval by the South African Parliament before being promulgated. Some of the proposed changes may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Although we expect the bulk of the original act to remain intact, there could be substantial changes, based on the current draft. This could have adverse effects on our business, operating results and financial condition. • South Africa’s exchange control regulations require resident companies to obtain the prior approval of the South African Reserve Bank to raise capital in any currency other than the Rand, and restrict the export of capital from South Africa. While the South African government has relaxed exchange controls in recent years, it is difficult to predict whether or how it will further relax or abolish exchange control measures in the future. These exchange control restrictions could hinder our financial and strategic flexibility, particularly our ability to use South African capital to fund acquisitions, capital expenditures, and new projects outside of South Africa. • Our operations in South Africa are reliant on services provided by the State agency, Transnet, for limited rail transport services at Namakwa Sands. Furthermore, they provide extensive dock-side services at both the ports of Richards Bay and Saldanha Bay. Delays, particularly industrial actions, could have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. • South African law governs the payment of compensation and medical costs to a compensation fund against which mining employees and other people at sites where ancillary mining activities are conducted can claim for mining activity-related illnesses or injuries. Should claims against the compensation fund rise significantly due to our mining activity or if claims against us are not covered by the compensation fund, the amount of our contribution or liability to claimants may increase, which could adversely impact our financial condition. In addition, the HIV/AIDS epidemic in South Africa poses risks to our South African operations in terms of potentially reduced productivity, and increased medical and other costs. If there is 14 Table of Contents a significant increase in the incidence of HIV/AIDS infection and related diseases among the South African workforce over the next several years, our operations, projects and financial condition may be adversely affected. The labor and employment laws in many jurisdictions in which we operate are more onerous than those of the United States; and some of our labor force has substantial works’ council or trade union participation, which creates a risk of disruption from labor disputes and new laws affecting employment policies. Labor costs constituted approximately 23% of our production costs in 2013. The majority of our employees are located outside the United States. In most of those countries, labor and employment laws are more onerous than in the United States and, in many cases, grant significant job protection to employees, including rights on termination of employment. In South Africa, more than 70% of our workforce belongs to a union. In Australia, our employees are not currently represented by a union, but 50% are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. In The Netherlands, 60% of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement and 30% are members of a union. Our South African operations have entered into various agreements regulating wages and working conditions at our mines. There have been periods when various stakeholders have been unable to agree on dispute resolution processes, leading to threats of disruptive labor disputes, although only two strikes have ever occurred in the history of these operations. Due to the high level of employee union membership, our South African operations are at risk of production stoppages for indefinite periods due to strikes and other labor disputes. In the past five years, employees of KZN Sands went on strike once for a 22-day period, from August 23 to September 13, 2010, in a dispute over wages and employment conditions, which resulted in an average daily production loss of 20,000 metric tons and 1,398 metric tons of heavy mineral concentrate, but had no significant impact on the smelter or furnace operations. Although we believe that we have good labor relations with our South African employees, we may experience labor disputes in the future. South African employment law, which is based on the minimum standard set by the International Labour Organization, sets out minimum terms and conditions of employment for employees. Although these may be improved by agreements between an employer and the trade unions, prescribed minimum terms and conditions form the benchmark for all employment contracts. Our South African operations are required to submit a report to the South African Department of Labour under South African employment law detailing the progress made towards achieving employment equity in the workplace. Failing to submit this report in a timely manner could result in substantial penalties. In addition, future legislative developments that affect South African employment policies may increase production costs or negatively impact relationships with employees and trade unions, which may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are required to consult with, and seek the consent or advice of, various employee groups or works’ councils that represent our employees for any changes to our activities or employee benefits. This requirement could have a significant impact on our flexibility in managing costs and responding to market changes. Business Factors Fluctuations in costs of our raw materials or our access to supplies of our raw materials could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In 2013, raw materials used in the production of TiO2 constituted approximately 44% of our operating expenses. Fuel and energy linked to commodities, such as diesel, heavy fuel oil and coal, and other consumables, such as chlorine, illuminating paraffin, electrodes, and anthracite, consumed in our manufacturing and mining operations form an important part of our operating costs. We have no control over the costs of these consumables, many of which are linked to some degree to the price of oil and coal, and the costs of many of these raw materials may fluctuate widely for a variety of reasons, including changes in availability, major capacity additions or reductions, or significant facility operating problems. These fluctuations could negatively affect our operating margins and our profitability. As these costs rise, our operating expenses will increase and could adversely affect our business, especially if we are unable to pass price increases in raw materials through to our customers. Shortages or price increases by our single source suppliers, such as the suppliers of chlorine to our Australian operations or high-quality anthracite to Namakwa Sands could decrease revenue or increase production costs, reducing the profitability of operations. Fluctuations in oil and coal prices impact our operating cost and capital expenditure estimates and, in the absence of other economic fluctuations, could result in significant changes in the total expenditure estimates for our operations or new expansion projects, and when taken into account with other production costs, such as wages, equipment and machinery costs, may render certain operations nonviable. 15 Table of Contents Given the nature of our chemical, mining and smelting operations, we face a material risk of liability, delays and increased cash costs of production from environmental and industrial accidents and operational breakdowns. Our business involves significant risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, and breakdowns of equipment and machinery. Our business is exposed to hazards associated with chemical process manufacturing and the related storage, handling and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes, and our furnace operations that are subject to explosions, water ingress and refractory failure, and our open pit (also called open-cut) and dredge mining operations that are subject to flooding and accidents associated with rock transportation equipment and conveyor belts. Furthermore, during operational breakdowns, the relevant facility may not be fully operational within the anticipated timeframe, which could result in further business losses. The occurrence of any of these or other hazards could delay production, suspend operations, increase repair, maintenance or medical costs and, due to the integration of our facilities, could have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on our business as a whole. Over our operating history, we have incurred incidents of this nature. There is also a risk that our key raw materials or our products may be found to have currently unrecognized toxicological or health-related impact on the environment or on our customers or employees. Such hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to property and contamination of the environment, which could lead to government fines or work stoppage injunctions and lawsuits by injured persons. If such actions are determined to be adverse to us, we may have inadequate insurance to cover such claims, or insufficient cash flow to pay for such claims. Such outcomes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are a holding company that is dependent on cash flows from our operating subsidiaries to fund our debt obligations, capital expenditures and ongoing operations. All of our operations are conducted and all of our assets are owned by our operating companies, which are our subsidiaries. We intend to continue to conduct our operations at the operating companies and any future subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations or make cash distributions depends upon the cash flow of our operating companies and any future subsidiaries, and the payment of funds by our operating companies and any future subsidiaries in the form of dividends or otherwise. The ability of our operating companies and any future subsidiaries to make any payments to us depends on their earnings, the terms of their indebtedness, including the terms of any credit facilities, and legal restrictions regarding the transfer of funds. Our ability to service our debt and fund our planned capital expenditures and ongoing operations will depend on our ability to generate and increase cash flow, and our access to additional liquidity sources. Our ability to generate and increase cash flow is dependent on many factors, including: • the impact of competition from other chemical and materials manufacturers and diversified companies; • the transfer of funds from subsidiaries in the United States to certain foreign subsidiaries; • general world business conditions, economic uncertainty or downturn and the significant downturn in housing construction and overall economies; • our ability to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices or to raise prices to offset, in whole or in part, the effects of higher raw material costs; • our ability to adequately deliver customer service and competitive product quality; and, • the effects of governmental regulation on our business. Many of these factors are beyond our control. A general economic downturn can result in reduced spending by customers, which will impact our revenues and cash flows from operating activities. At reduced performance, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or access additional liquidity sources, we may not be able to service and repay our existing debt, operate our business, respond to competitive challenges, or fund our other liquidity and capital needs. Our industry and the end-use markets in which we compete are highly competitive. This competition may adversely affect our results of operations and operating cash flows. Each of our markets is highly competitive. Competition in the pigment industry is based on a number of factors such as price, product quality, and service. We face significant competition from major international and smaller regional competitors. Our most significant competitors include major chemical and materials manufacturers and diversified companies, a number of which have substantially larger financial resources, greater personnel, and larger facilities than we do. We also compete with numerous smaller, regional producers, including producers in China, that have expanded their sulphate TiO2 production capacity during the previous five years. Zircon producers generally compete on the basis of price, quality, logistics, delivery, and payment terms and consistency of supply. Although we believe we have competitive quality, long-term relationships with customers and product range, our primary competitive disadvantage relative to our major competitors is our distance from our main consumers (i.e., Asia and Europe). 16 Table of Contents Within the end-use markets in which we compete, competition between products is intense. We face substantial risk that certain events, such as new product development by competitors, changing customer needs, production advances for competing products, or price changes in raw materials, could cause our customers to switch to our competitors’ products. If we are unable to develop and produce or market our products to compete effectively against our competitors following such events, our results of operations and operating cash flows may suffer. We may need additional capital in the future and may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms. Our industry is capital intensive, and our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to develop and market innovative products and to update our facilities and process technology. We may require additional capital in the future to finance our growth and development, implement further marketing and sales activities, fund ongoing research and development activities and meet general working capital needs. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including acceptance of, and demand for our products, the extent to which we invest in new technology and research and development projects, and the status and timing of these developments, as well as general availability of capital from debt and/or equity markets. Additional financing may not be available when needed on terms favorable to us, or at all. Further, the terms of our debt may limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness or issue additional equity. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds on acceptable terms, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could harm our business. The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could affect our ability to operate our business, as well as impact our liquidity. As of December 31, 2013, our total principal amount of long-term debt was $2.4 billion (including $11 million of original issue discount in connection with the senior secured term loan (the “Term Loan”), which has a face value of $1.5 billion). Our credit facilities contain covenants that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, our liquidity, and our results of operations. These covenants restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • complete asset sales, acquisitions or mergers; • make investments and capital expenditures; • prepay other indebtedness; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and, • fund dividends or repurchase shares. In addition, the terms of our credit facilities require us and our subsidiaries to maintain certain minimum performance levels relative to our debt. Certain of our facilities, excluding the Term Loan and Senior Notes, include requirements relating to the ratio of adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) to indebtedness or certain fixed charges. The breach of any covenants or obligations in our credit facilities, not otherwise waived or amended, could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations (and cross-defaults to certain other debt obligations) and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger other cross defaults under other future agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. In addition, the secured lenders under the credit facilities could foreclose on their collateral, which includes equity interests in our subsidiaries, and exercise other rights of secured creditors. Any default under those credit facilities could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our credit facilities, and could force us to seek the protection of bankruptcy laws. Exxaro may exert substantial influence over us as a shareholder. At December 31, 2013, Exxaro held approximately 44.4% of the voting securities of Tronox Limited, and had three nominees serving as Directors on our nine-member board. Additionally, in the future, Exxaro may exchange its retained interest in the mineral sands business for additional Class B Shares. Due to Exxaro’s significant ownership interest, it is entitled to certain rights under the Constitution and the Shareholder’s Deed of Tronox Limited. For example, the Constitution provides that, for as long as the Class B voting interest is at least 10% of the total voting interest in Tronox Limited, there must be nine directors on our board; of which the holders of Class A Shares will be entitled to vote separately to elect a certain number of directors to our board (which we refer to as Class A Directors), and the holders of Class B Shares will be entitled to vote separately to elect a certain number of directors to our board (which we refer to as Class B Directors). If the Class B voting interest is greater than or equal to 30%, our board will consist of six Class A Directors and three Class B Directors. If the Class B voting interest is greater than or equal to 20% but less than 30%, our board of directors will consist of seven Class A Directors and two Class B Directors. If the Class B voting interest is greater than or equal to 10% but less than 20%, our board will consist of eight Class A Directors and one Class B Director. 17 Table of Contents The Constitution also provides that, subject to certain limitations, for as long as the Class B voting interest is at least 20%, a separate vote by holders of Class A Shares and Class B Shares is required to approve certain types of merger or similar transactions that will result in a change in control or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any reorganization or transaction that does not treat Class A and Class B Shares equally. As a result of Exxaro’s significant ownership interest and its governance rights, Exxaro may be able to exert substantial influence over our management, operations and potential significant corporate transactions, including a change in control or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Exxaro’s influence may have an adverse effect on the trading price of our ordinary shares. Our South African operations may lose the benefit of the Black Economic Empowerment (“BEE”) status under South African legislation, resulting in the need to implement a remedial solution or introduce a new minority shareholder, which could negatively impact our South African operations. Exxaro retains a 26% direct ownership interest in each of Tronox KZN Sands (Pty) Ltd and Tronox Mineral Sands (Pty) Ltd in order for these two entities to comply with the requirements of the MPRDA and the South African Mining Charter ownership requirements under the BEE legislation. Exxaro has agreed to maintain its direct ownership for a period of the shorter of 10 years (unless it transfers the direct ownership interests to another qualified buyer under the BEE legislation) or the date on which the requirement to maintain a direct ownership stake in each of Tronox KZN Sands (Pty) Ltd and Tronox Mineral Sands (Pty) Ltd no longer applies, as determined by the DMR. If either Tronox KZN Sands (Pty) Ltd or Tronox Mineral Sands (Pty) Ltd ceases to qualify under the BEE legislation, Tronox Limited and Exxaro have agreed to jointly seek a remedial solution. If Tronox Limited and Exxaro cannot successfully implement a solution and the reason for this failure is due to anything other than a change in law, then we may dispose of Exxaro’s shares in the non-qualifying company to another BEE compliant, qualifying purchaser. During any period of any non-qualification, our South African operations may be in violation of their mining or prospecting rights, as well as the requirements of the MPRDA and the South African Mining Charter, which could result in a suspension or revocation of the non-qualifying company’s mining and prospecting rights and could expose us to operating restrictions, lost business opportunities and delays in receiving further regulatory approvals for our South African operations and expansion activities. In addition, if Exxaro’s direct ownership in Tronox KZN Sands (Pty) Ltd and Tronox Mineral Sands (Pty) Ltd is sold to another purchaser, we would be required to share ownership and control of our South African operations with a minority shareholder, which may impact our operational and financial flexibility and could impact profitability, expansion opportunities and our results of operations. Estimations of our ore resources and reserve estimates are based on a number of assumptions, including mining and recovery factors, future cash costs of production and ore demand and pricing. As a result, ore resources and reserve quantities actually produced may differ from current estimates. The mineral resource and reserve estimates are estimates of the quantity and ore grades in our mines based on the interpretation of geological data obtained from drill holes and other sampling techniques, as well as from feasibility studies. The accuracy of these estimates is dependent on the assumptions and judgments made in interpreting the geological data. The assessment of geographical characteristics, such as location, quantity, quality, continuity of geology and grade, is made with varying degrees of confidence in accordance with established guidelines and standards. We use various exploration techniques, including geophysical surveys and sampling through drilling and trenching, to investigate resources and implement applicable quality assurance and quality control criteria to ensure that data is representative. Our mineral reserves represent the amount of ore that we believe can be successfully mined and processed, and are estimated based on a number of factors, which have been stated in accordance with the South African Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves, effective July 2007 (the “SAMREC Code”) and Joint Ore Reserves Committee Code (2012) (the “JORC Code”). There is significant uncertainty in any mineral reserve or mineral resource estimate. Factors that are beyond our control, such as the ability to secure mineral rights, the sufficiency of mineralization to support mining and beneficiation practices and the suitability of the market may significantly impact mineral resource and reserve estimates. The actual deposits encountered and the economic viability of mining a deposit may differ materially from our estimates. Since these mineral resources and reserves are estimates based on assumptions related to factors discussed above, we may revise these estimates in the future as we become aware of new developments. To maintain TiO2 feedstock production beyond the expected lives of our existing mines or to increase production materially above projected levels, we will need to access additional reserves through exploration or discovery. If we are unable to innovate and successfully introduce new products, or new technologies or processes reduce the demand for our products or the price at which we can sell products, our profitability could be adversely affected. Our industries and the end-use markets into which we sell our products experience periodic technological change and product improvement. Our future growth will depend on our ability to gauge the direction of commercial and technological progress in key end-use markets and on our ability to fund and successfully develop, manufacture and market products in such changing end-use markets. We must continue to identify, develop and market innovative products or enhance existing products on a timely basis to maintain our profit margins and our competitive position. We may be unable to develop new products or technology, either alone or with third parties, or license intellectual property rights from third parties on a commercially competitive basis. If we fail to keep pace 18 Table of Contents with the evolving technological innovations in our end-use markets on a competitive basis, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, new technologies or processes have the potential to replace or provide lower-cost alternatives to our products, such as new processes that reduce TiO2 in consumer products or the use of chloride slag in the production of TiO2, which could result in TiO2 producers using less chloride slag, or to reduce the need for TiO2 in consumer products, which could depress the demand and pricing for TiO2. We cannot predict whether technological innovations will, in the future, result in a lower demand for our products or affect the competitiveness of our business. We may be required to invest significant resources to adapt to changing technologies, markets and competitive environments. Violations or noncompliance with the extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject or changes in laws or regulations governing our operations could result in unanticipated loss or liability. Our operations and production facilities are subject to extensive environmental and health and safety laws and regulations at national, international and local levels in numerous jurisdictions relating to use of natural resources, pollution, protection of the environment, transporting and storing raw materials and finished products, and storing and disposing of hazardous wastes among other materials. The costs of compliance with the extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or the inability to obtain, update or renew permits required for operation or expansion of our business could reduce our profitability or otherwise adversely affect our business. If we fail to comply with the conditions of our permits governing the production and management of regulated materials, mineral sands mining licenses or leases or the provisions of the applicable South African or Australian law, these permits, mining licenses or leases and mining rights could be canceled or suspended, and we could be prevented from obtaining new mining and prospecting rights, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, we could incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions and remediation costs, or experience interruptions in our operations, for violations arising under these laws and regulations. In the event of a catastrophic incident involving any of the raw materials we use, or chemicals or mineral products we produce, we could incur material costs as a result of addressing the consequences of such event. Changes to existing laws governing operations, especially changes in laws relating to transportation of mineral resources, the treatment of land and infrastructure, contaminated land, the remediation of mines, tax royalties, exchange control restrictions, environmental remediation, mineral rights, ownership of mining assets, or the rights to prospect and mine may have a material adverse effect on our future business operations and financial performance. There is risk that onerous conditions may be attached to authorizations in the form of mining rights, water-use licenses, miscellaneous licenses and environmental approvals, or that the grant of these approvals may be delayed or not granted. Our current operations involve the production and management of regulated materials that are subject to various environmental laws and regulations and are dependent on obtaining and the periodic renewal of permits from various governmental agencies. The inability to obtain, update or renew permits related to the operation of our businesses, or the costs required in order to comply with permit standards, could have a material adverse effect on us. We compete with other mining and chemical businesses for key human resources in the countries in which we operate, and our business will suffer if we are unable to hire highly skilled employees or if our key officers or employees discontinue employment with us. We compete with other chemical and mining companies, and other companies generally, in the countries in which we operate to attract and retain key human resources at all levels with the appropriate technical skills and operating and managerial experience necessary to continue operating and expanding our businesses. These operations use modern techniques and equipment and accordingly require various types of skilled workers. The success of our business will be materially dependent upon the skills, experience and efforts of our key officers and skilled employees. The global shortage of key mining skills, including geologists, mining engineers, metallurgists, and skilled artisans, has been exacerbated by increased mining activity across the globe. Competition for skilled employees is particularly severe in Western Australia and at Namakwa Sands, which may cost us in terms of higher labor costs or reduced productivity. As a result, we may not be able to attract and retain skilled and experienced employees. Should we lose any of our key personnel or fail to attract and retain key qualified personnel or other skilled employees, our business may be harmed and our operational results and financial condition could be affected. There may be difficulty in effecting service of legal process and enforcing judgments against us and our directors and management. We are registered under the laws of Western Australia, Australia, and substantial portions of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, certain members of our board of directors, as well as certain officers named in this Form 10-K, reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon 19 Table of Contents Tronox Limited or such other persons residing outside the United States, or to enforce judgments outside the United States obtained against such persons in U.S. courts in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce rights predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States. Third parties may develop new intellectual property rights for processes and/or products that we would want to use, but would be unable to do so; or, third parties may claim that the products we make or the processes that we use infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or prevent us from making, using or selling products we make or require alteration of the processes we use. Results of our operations may also be negatively impacted if a competitor develops or has the right to use intellectual property rights for new processes or products and we cannot obtain similar rights on favorable terms or are unable to independently develop non-infringing competitive alternatives. Although there are currently no known pending or threatened proceedings or claims relating to alleged infringement, misappropriation or violation of the intellectual property rights of others, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the future in which third parties allege that their patents or other intellectual property rights are infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated by us or our products or processes. In the event that any such infringement, misappropriation or violation of the intellectual property rights of others is found, we may need to obtain licenses from those parties or substantially re-engineer our products or processes to avoid such infringement, misappropriation or violation. We might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms or be able to re-engineer our products or processes successfully. Moreover, if we are found by a court of law to infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages or be enjoined from making, using or selling the infringing products or technology. We also could be enjoined from making, using or selling the allegedly infringing products or technology pending the final outcome of the suit. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If our intellectual property were compromised or copied by competitors, or if competitors were to develop similar intellectual property independently, our results of operations could be negatively affected. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property rights. Although we own and have applied for numerous patents and trademarks throughout the world, we may have to rely on judicial enforcement of our patents and other proprietary rights. Our patents and other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, and rendered unenforceable or otherwise compromised. A failure to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, know-how and other trade secrets to maintain our competitive position. While we maintain policies to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our proprietary expertise and other trade secrets, these agreements may not be enforceable or, even if legally enforceable, we may not have adequate remedies for breaches of such agreements. We also may not be able to readily detect breaches of such agreements. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary technology, know-how or trade secrets could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins or loss of market share. In addition, we may be unable to determine when third parties are using our intellectual property rights without our authorization. We also have licensed certain of our intellectual property rights to third parties, and we cannot be certain that our licensees are using our intellectual property only as authorized by the applicable license agreement. The undetected or unremedied unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights or the legitimate development or acquisition of intellectual property related to our industry by third parties could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have as a result of our intellectual property, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. If we must take legal action to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights, any suits or proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and our management’s attention, and we may not prevail in any such suits or proceedings. A failure to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our intangible assets or other long-lived assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We have a significant amount of intangible assets and other long-lived assets on our consolidated balance sheets. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”), we review our intangible assets and other long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our intangible assets and other long-lived assets may not be recoverable, include, but are not limited to, a significant decline in share price and market capitalization, changes in the industries in which we operate, particularly the impact of a downturn in the global economy, as well as competition or other factors leading to 20 Table of Contents reduction in expected long-term sales or profitability. We may be required to record a significant non-cash charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our intangible assets and other long-lived assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might be unable to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires us and our independent registered public accounting firm to annually evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting. Our efforts to maintain an effective system of internal controls may not be successful, and we may not be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Even if we conclude, and our independent registered public accounting firm concurs, that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements in the future. Failure to maintain proper and effective internal controls could harm our results of operations or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discovers a material weakness in our internal controls in the future, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff. 