D. Risk Factors This annual report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including those described in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our A ordinary shares could decline. Risks Related to Our Business We may fail to source adequate film content on favorable terms or at all through acquisitions or co-productions, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business. We generate revenues by exploiting Indian film content that we primarily co-produce or acquire from third parties, and then distribute through various channels. Our ability to successfully enter into co-productions and to acquire content depends on our ability to maintain existing relationships, and form new ones, with talent and other industry participants. The pool of quality talent in India is limited and as a result, there is significant competition to secure the services of certain actors, directors, composers and producers, among others. Competition can increase the cost of such talent, and hence the cost of film content. These costs may continue to increase, making it more difficult for us to access content cost-effectively and reducing our ability to sustain our margins and maximize revenues from distribution and exploitation. Further, we may be unable to successfully maintain our long-standing relationships with certain industry participants and continue to have access to content and/or creative talent and may be unable to establish similar relationships with new leading creative talent. If any such relationships are adversely affected, or we are unable to form new relationships or our access to quality Indian film content otherwise deteriorates, or if any party fails to perform under its agreements or arrangements with us, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Delays, cost overruns, cancellation or abandonment of the completion or release of films may have an adverse effect on our business. There are substantial financial risks relating to film production, completion and release. Actual film costs may exceed their budgets and factors such as labor disputes, unavailability of a star performer, equipment shortages, disputes with production teams or adverse weather conditions may cause cost overruns and delay or hamper film completion. When a film we have contracted to acquire from a third party experiences delays or fails to be completed, we may not recover advance monies paid for the proposed acquisition. When we enter into co-productions, we are typically responsible for paying all production costs in accordance with an agreed upon budget and while we typically cap budgets in our contracts with our co-producer, given the importance of ongoing relationships in our industry, longer-term commercial considerations may in certain circumstances override strict contractual rights and we may feel obliged to fund cost over-runs where there is no contractual obligation requiring us to do so. To date, we have completed one sole production, however it is expected that this will increase in the coming years. Production delays, failure to complete projects or cost overruns could result in us not recovering our costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The popularity and commercial success of our films are subject to numerous factors, over which we may have limited or no control. The popularity and commercial success of our films depends on many factors including, but not limited to, the key talent involved, the timing of release, the promotion and marketing of the film, the quality and acceptance of other competing programs released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment, general economic conditions, the genre and specific subject matter of the film, its critical acclaim and the breadth, timing and format of its initial release. We cannot predict the impact of such factors on any film, and many are factors that are beyond our control. As a result of these factors and many others, our films may not be as successful as we anticipate, and as a result, our results of operations may suffer. We depend on our relationships with theater operators and other industry participants to exploit our film content. Any disputes with multiplex operators in India could have a material adverse effect on our ability or willingness to release our films as scheduled. We generate revenues from the exploitation of Indian film content in various distribution channels through agreements with commercial theater operators, in particular multiplex operators, and with retailers, television operators, telecommunications companies and others. Our failure to maintain these relationships, or to establish and capitalize on new relationships, could harm our business or prevent our business from growing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 4 We have had disputes with multiplex operators in India that required us to delay our film releases and disrupted our marketing schedule for future films. These disputes were subsequently settled pursuant to settlement agreements that expired in June 2011. We now enter into agreements on a film-by-film and exhibitor-by-exhibitor basis instead of entering into long-term agreements. To date, our film-by-film agreements have been on commercial terms that are no less favorable than the terms of the prior settlement agreements; however, we cannot guarantee such terms can always be obtained. Accordingly, without a long-term commitment from multiplex operators, we may be at risk of losing a substantial portion of our revenues derived from our theatrical business. We may also have similar future disruptions in our relationship with multiplex operators, the operators of single-screen theaters or other industry participants, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Further, the theater industry in India is rapidly growing and evolving and we cannot assure you that we will be able to establish relationships with new commercial theater operators. The success of our business depends on our ability to consistently create and distribute filmed entertainment that meets the changing preferences of the broad consumer market both within India and internationally. Changing consumer tastes affect our ability to predict which films will be popular with audiences in India and internationally. As we invest in a portfolio of films across a wide variety of genres, stars and directors, it is highly likely that at least some of the films in which we invest will not appeal to Indian or international audiences. Further, where we sell rights prior to release of a film, any failure to accurately predict the likely commercial success of a film may cause us to underestimate the value of such rights. If we are unable to co-produce and acquire rights to films that appeal to Indian and international film audiences or to accurately judge audience acceptance of our film content, the costs of such films could exceed revenues generated and anticipated profits may not be realized. Our failure to realize anticipated profits could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The popularity and commercial success of our films are subject to numerous factors, over which we may have limited or no control. The popularity and commercial success of our films depends on many factors including, but not limited to, the key talent involved, the timing of release, the promotion and marketing of the film, the quality and acceptance of other competing programs released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment, general economic conditions, the genre and specific subject matter of the film, its critical acclaim and the breadth, timing and format of its initial release. We cannot predict the impact of such factors on any film, and many are factors that are beyond our control. As a result of these factors and many others, our films may not be as successful as we anticipate, and as a result, our results of operations may suffer. Our ability to exploit our content is limited to the rights that we acquire from third parties or otherwise own. We have acquired over 90% of our film content through contracts with third parties, which are primarily fixed-term contracts that may be subject to expiration or early termination. Upon expiration or termination of these arrangements, content may be unavailable to us on acceptable terms or at all, including with respect to technical matters such as encryption, territorial limitation and copy protection. In addition, if any of our competitors offer better terms, we will be required to spend more money or grant better terms, or both, to acquire or extend the rights we previously held. If we are unable to renew the rights to our film library on commercially favorable terms and to continue exploiting the existing films in our library or other content, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Based on our agreements in effect as of March 31, 2015, if we do not otherwise extend or renew our existing rights, we anticipate the rights we currently license in Hindi and regional languages, excluding our Kannada digital rights library for which we have perpetual rights subject to applicable copyright law, will expire as summarized in the table below. Term Expiration Dates Hindi Film Rights Regional Film Rights(1) (approximate percentage of films whose licensed rights expire in the period indicated) Prior to March 31, 2020 25 % 4 % 2021-2025 50 28 2026-2030 9 — 2031-2045 3 3 Perpetual(2) 13 65 (1) Excludes the Kannada digital rights library. (2) Subject to limitations imposed by Indian copyright law, which restricts the term to 60 years from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which the film is released. 5 In addition, we typically only own certain rights for the exploitation of content, which limits our ability to exploit content in certain media formats. In particular, we do not own the audio music rights to the majority of the films in our library and to certain new releases. See “Part I—Item 4. Information on the Company—Our Film Library” for detail regarding our rights. To the extent we do not own the music or other media rights in respect of a particular film, we may only exploit content through those channels to which we do own rights, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from a film and recover our costs from acquiring or producing content. We depend on the Indian box office success of our Hindi and high budget Tamil and Telugu films from which we derive a significant portion of our revenues. In India, a relatively high percentage of a film’s overall revenues are derived from theater box office sales and, in particular, from such sales in the first week of a film’s release. Indian domestic box office receipts are also an indicator of a film’s expected success in other Indian and international distribution channels. As such, poor box office receipts in India for our films, even for those films for which we obtain only international distribution rights, could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations in both the year of release of the relevant films and in the future for revenues expected to be earned through other distribution channels. In particular, we depend on the Indian box office success of our Hindi films and high budget Tamil and Telugu films. We may not be paid the full amount of box office revenues to which we are entitled. We derive revenues from theatrical exhibition of our films by collecting a specified percentage of box office receipts from multiplex and single screen theater operators. The Indian film industry continues to lack full exhibitor transparency. There is limited independent monitoring of such data in India or the Middle East, unlike the monitoring services provided by Rentrak in the United Kingdom and the United States. We therefore rely on theater operators and our sub-distributors to report relevant information to us in an accurate and timely manner. While some multiplex and single-screen operators have moved to a digital distribution model that provides greater clarity on the number of screenings given to our films, other multiplex operators and single-screen operators retain the traditional print model. We expect that our films will continue to be exhibited primarily on screens that either do not have computerized tracking systems for box office receipts or screening information, or in relation to which we do not have access to audit compliance data. Because we do not have a reliable system to determine if our box office receipts are underreported, box office receipts and sub-distribution revenues may be inadvertently or purposefully misreported or delayed, which could prevent us from being compensated appropriately for exhibition of our films. If we are not properly compensated, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. We incur significant costs to protect electronically stored data and if our data is compromised despite this protection, we may incur additional costs, business interruption, lost opportunities and damage to our reputation. We collect and maintain information and data necessary for conducting our business operations, which information includes proprietary and confidential data and personal information of our customers and employees. Such information is often maintained electronically, which includes risks of intrusion, tampering, manipulation and misappropriation. We implement and maintain systems to protect our digital data, but obtaining and maintaining these systems is costly and usually requires continuous monitoring and updating for technological advances and change. Additionally, we sometimes provide confidential, proprietary and personal information to third parties when required in connection with certain business and commercial transactions. For instance, we have entered into an agreement with a third party vendor to assist in processing employee payroll, and they receive and maintain confidential personal information regarding our employees. We take precautions to try to ensure that such third parties will protect this information, but there remains a risk that the confidentiality of any data held by third parties may be compromised. If our data systems, or those of our third party vendors and partners, are compromised, there may be negative effects on our business including a loss of business opportunities or disclosure of trade secrets. If the personal information we maintain is tampered with or misappropriated, our reputation and relationships with our partners and customers may be adversely affected, and we may incur significant costs to remediate the problem and prevent future occurrences. 6 A downturn in the Indian and international economies or instability in financial markets, including a decreased growth rate and increased Indian price inflation, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Global economic conditions may negatively impact consumer spending. Prolonged negative trends in the global or local economies can adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our films and may shift consumer demand away from the entertainment we offer. According to the International Monetary Fund’s “Asia: Stabilising and Outperforming other Regions,” published on May 6, 2015, the GDP growth rate of India is projected to pick up from 7.2% in 2014-2015 to 7.5% in 2015-2016 and 2016-2017. The Central Statistics Office has estimated that the growth rate in GDP in the 12 month period ended March 31, 2015 was 7.3% over the corresponding period of the previous year (Source: Press release dated May 29, 2015 on “Provisional Estimates of Annual National Income, 2014-15 and Quarterly Estimates of Gross Domestic Product, 2014-15” released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, Government of India). A decline in attendance at theaters may reduce the revenues we generate from this channel, from which a significant proportion of our revenues are derived. If the general economic downturn continues to affect the countries in which we distribute our films, discretionary consumer spending may be adversely affected, which would have an adverse impact on demand for our theater, television and digital distribution channels. Economic instability and the continuing weak economy in India may negatively impact the Indian box office success of our Hindi and Tamil films, on which we depend for a significant portion of our revenues. Further, a sustained decline in economic conditions could result in closure or downsizing by, or otherwise adversely impact, industry participants on whom we rely for content sourcing and distribution. Any decline in demand for our content could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, global financial uncertainty has negatively affected the Indian financial markets. Continued financial disruptions may limit our ability to obtain financing for our films. For example, any adverse revisions to India’s credit ratings for domestic and international debt by domestic or international rating agencies may adversely impact our ability to raise additional financing and the interest rates and other commercial terms at which such additional financing is available. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. India has recently experienced fluctuating wholesale price inflation compared to historical levels. An increase in inflation in India could cause a rise in the price of wages, particularly for Indian film talent, or any other expenses that we incur. If this trend continues, we may be unable to accurately estimate or control our costs of production. Because it is unlikely we would be able to pass all of our increased costs on to our customers, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuation in the value of the Indian Rupee against foreign currencies could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service our debt. While a significant portion of our revenues are denominated in Indian Rupees, certain contracts for our film content are or may be denominated in foreign currencies. Additionally, we report our financial results in U.S. dollars and most of our debt is denominated in U.S. dollars. We expect that the continued volatility in the value of the Indian Rupee against foreign currency will continue to have an impact on our business. The Indian Rupee experienced an approximately 10.7% drop in value as compared to the U.S. dollar in fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2015 the drop was 3.7%. In November 2014, the Indian Rupee had dropped as much as 5.6% relative to the U.S. dollar from the beginning of fiscal 2015. Since the end of fiscal 2015 to the end of May 2015 the Indian Rupee has experienced a 2.0% decline. Changes in the growth of the Indian economy and the continued volatility of the Indian Rupee, may adversely affect our business. Further, at the end of fiscal 2015, $173.2 million, or 55.0% of our debt, was denominated in U.S. dollars, and we may not generate sufficient revenue in U.S. dollars to service all of our U.S. dollar-denominated debt. Consequently, we may be required to use revenues generated in Indian Rupees to service our U.S. dollar-denominated debt. Any devaluation or depreciation in the value of the Indian Rupee, compared to the U.S. dollar, could adversely affect our ability to service our debt. See “Item 3. Key Information — C. Selected Financial Data — Exchange Rates” for historical exchange rates between Indian Rupees and U.S. dollars. 7 Although we have not historically done so, we may, from time to time, seek to reduce the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results by purchasing derivative instruments such as foreign exchange forward contracts to cover our intercompany indebtedness or outstanding receivables. However, we may not be able to purchase contracts to insulate ourselves adequately from foreign currency exchange risks. In addition, any such contracts may not perform effectively as a hedging mechanism. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Exchange Rates” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Foreign Currency Risk.” We face increasing competition with other films for movie screens, and our inability to obtain sufficient distribution of our films could have a material adverse effect on our business. A substantial majority of the theater screens in India are typically committed at any one time to a limited number of films, and we compete directly against other producers and distributors of Indian films in each of our distribution channels. If the number of films released in the market as a whole increases it could create excess supply in the market, in particular at peak theater release times such as school and national holidays and during festivals, which would make it more difficult for our films to succeed. Where we are unable to ensure a wide release for our films, or where we are unable to provide theater operators with sufficient prints of our films to allow them to maximize screenings in the first week of a film’s release, it may have an adverse impact on our revenues. Further, failure to release during peak periods, or the inability to book sufficient screens, could cause us to miss potentially higher gross box-office receipts and/or affect subsequent revenue streams, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We face increasing competition from other forms of entertainment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also compete with all other sources of entertainment and information delivery, including television, the internet and sporting events such as the Indian Premier League, for cricket. Technological advancements such as VOD, mobile and internet streaming and downloading have increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available to consumers and have intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The increasing number of choices available to audiences could negatively impact consumer demand for our films, and there can be no assurance that occupancy rates at theaters or demand for our other distribution channels will not fall. Competition within the Indian film industry is growing rapidly, and certain of our competitors are larger, have greater financial resources and are more diversified. The Indian film industry’s rapid growth is changing the competitive landscape, increasing competition for content, talent and release dates. Growth in the Indian film industry has attracted foreign industry participants and competitors, such as Sony Pictures, Viacom Inc., The Walt Disney Company and 21st Century Fox, many of which are substantially larger and have greater financial resources, including competitors that own their own theaters and/or television networks. These larger competitors may have the ability to spend additional funds on production of new films, which may require us to increase our production budgets beyond what we originally anticipated in order to compete effectively. In addition, these competitors may use their financial resources to gain increased access to movie screens and enter into exclusive content arrangements with key talent in the Indian film industry. Unlike some of these major competitors that are part of larger diversified corporate groups, we derive substantially all of our revenue from our film entertainment business. If our films fail to perform to our expectations we are likely to face a greater adverse impact than would a more diversified competitor. In addition, other larger entertainment distribution companies may have larger budgets to exploit growing technological trends. If we are unable to compete with these companies effectively, our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. With generally increasing budgets of Hindi, Tamil and Telugu films, we may not have the resources to distribute the same level of films as competitors with greater financial strength. Piracy of our content, including digital and internet piracy, may adversely impact our revenues and business. Our business depends in part on the adequacy, enforceability and maintenance of intellectual property rights in the entertainment products and services we create. Motion picture piracy is extensive in many parts of the world and is made easier by technological advances and the conversion of motion pictures into digital formats. This trend facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of motion pictures in theatrical release on DVDs, CDs and Blu-ray discs, from pay-per-view through set top boxes and other devices and through unlicensed broadcasts on free television and the internet. 8 Although DVD and CD sales represent a relatively small portion of Indian film and music industry revenues, the proliferation of unauthorized copies of these products results in lost revenue and significantly reduced pricing power, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, unauthorized copying and piracy are prevalent in countries outside of the United States, Canada and Western Europe, including India, whose legal systems may make it difficult for us to enforce our intellectual property rights and in which consumer awareness of the individual and industry consequences of piracy is lower. With broadband connectivity improving, 3G internet penetration increasing and the advent of 4G in India, digital piracy of our content is an increasing risk. In addition, the prevalence of third-party hosting sites and a large number of links to potentially pirated content make it difficult to effectively monitor and prevent digital piracy of our content. Existing copyright and trademark laws in India afford only limited practical protection and the lack of internet-specific legislation relating to trademark and copyright protection creates a further challenge for us to protect our content delivered through such media. According to FICCI Report 2013, it is estimated that the Indian film industry loses as much as $1.1 billion annually due to piracy. Additionally, we may seek to implement elaborate and costly security and anti-piracy measures, which could result in significant expenses and revenue losses. Even the highest levels of security and anti-piracy measures may fail to prevent piracy. We may be unable to adequately protect or continue to use our intellectual property. Failure to protect such intellectual property may negatively impact our business. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks and similar intellectual property rights to protect our name and branded products. The success of our business, in part, depends on our continued ability to use this intellectual property in order to increase awareness of the Eros name. We attempt to protect these intellectual property rights through available copyright and trademark laws. Despite these precautions, existing copyright and trademark laws afford only limited practical protection in certain countries, and the actions taken by us may be inadequate to prevent imitation by others of the Eros name and other Eros intellectual property. In addition, if the applicable laws in these countries are drafted or interpreted in ways that limit the extent or duration of our rights, or if existing laws are changed, our ability to generate revenue from our intellectual property may decrease, or the cost of obtaining and maintaining rights may increase. Further, many existing laws governing property ownership, copyright and other intellectual property issues were adopted before the advent of the internet and do not address the unique issues associated with the internet, personal entertainment devices and related technologies, and new interpretations of these laws in response to emerging digital platforms may increase our digital distribution costs, require us to change business practices relating to digital distribution or otherwise harm our business. We also distribute our branded products in some countries in which there is no copyright or trademark protection. As a result, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy and distribute our branded products or certain portions or applications of our branded products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to register the appropriate copyrights, trademarks or our other efforts to protect relevant intellectual property prove to be inadequate, the value of the Eros name could be harmed, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be unable to continue to use the domain names that we use in our business, or prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe on, are similar to or otherwise decrease the value of our brand or our trademarks or service marks. We have registered several domain names for websites that we use in our business, such as erosplc.com and erosentertainment.com, and although our Indian subsidiaries currently own over 55 registered trademarks, we have not obtained a registered trademark for any of our domain names. If we lose the ability to use a domain name, whether due to trademark claims, failure to renew the applicable registration or any other cause, we may be forced to market our products under a new domain name, which could cause us to lose users of our websites, or to incur significant expense in order to purchase rights to such a domain name. In addition, our competitors and others could attempt to capitalize on our brand recognition by using domain names similar to ours. Domain names similar to ours have been registered in the United States, India and elsewhere. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe on, are similar to or otherwise decrease the value of our brand, trademarks or service marks. Protecting and enforcing our rights in our domain names may require litigation, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention. 9 Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Regardless of the validity or the success of the assertion of any claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in enforcing our intellectual property rights or in defending against such claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our services and products could infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. Other parties, including our competitors, may hold or obtain patents, trademarks, copyright protection or other proprietary rights with respect to their previously developed films, characters, stories, themes and concepts or other entertainment, technology and software or other intellectual property of which we are unaware. In addition, the creative talent that we hire or use in our productions may not own all or any of the intellectual property that they represent they do, which may instead be held by third parties. Consequently, the film content that we produce and distribute or the software and technology we use may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, and we frequently have infringement claims asserted against us. Any claims or litigation, justified or not, could be time-consuming and costly, harm our reputation, require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements that may not be available on acceptable terms or at all or require us to undertake creative changes to our film content or source alternative content, software or technology. Where it is not possible to do so, claims may prevent us from producing and/or distributing certain film content and/or using certain technology or software in our operations. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to remain competitive may be adversely affected by rapid technological changes and by an inability to access such technology. The Indian film entertainment industry continues to undergo significant technological developments, including the ongoing transition from film to digital media. We may be unsuccessful in adopting new digital distribution methods or may lose market share to our competitors if the methods that we adopt are not as technologically sound, user-friendly, widely accessible or appealing to consumers as those adopted by our competitors. For example, our on-demand entertainment portal accessible via internet-enabled devices, Eros Now, may not achieve the desired growth rate. Further, advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage, or changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies, could have a negative effect on our home entertainment market in India. If we fail to successfully exploit digital and other emerging technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently migrating to an SAP ERP system, which could substantially disrupt our business, and our failure to successfully integrate our IT systems across our international operations could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We are currently in the process of migrating to an SAP ERP system to replace several of our existing IT systems. We have completed this accounting migration in India, but the process is ongoing in the rest of the world and the implementation has been delayed. Also we have not yet integrated supporting modules into the SAP ERP system, such as a module to manage our film library. This integration and migration may lead to unforeseen complications and expenses, and our failure to efficiently integrate and migrate our IT systems could substantially disrupt our business. We will implement further modules within SAP ERP once the initial worldwide integration has been completed. The SAP ERP system will be implemented globally in our different office locations and will need to accommodate our multilingual operations, resulting in further difficulties in such implementation. Our failure to successfully integrate our IT systems across our international operations could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention, which could harm our business and competitive position. The music industry is highly competitive and many of our competitors in the music industry focus more exclusively on music distribution and have greater resources than we have. The music industry, including the market for music licensing and related services in the film and broadcast industry, is intensely competitive. Many companies focus exclusively on music distribution and have greater resources and a larger depth and breadth of library, distribution capabilities and current repertoire than we do. We expect competition to persist and to intensify as the markets for Indian music continue to develop and as additional competitors enter the Indian music industry. To remain competitive, we may be forced to reduce our prices and increase costs which may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business and activities are regulated by the Competition Act. The Competition Act, 2002, or the Competition Act, prohibits practices that could have an appreciable adverse effect on competition in India. Under the Competition Act, any arrangement, understanding or action, whether formal or informal, which causes or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition in India is void and may result in substantial penalties and compensation to be paid to persons shown to have suffered losses. Any agreement among competitors which directly or indirectly determines purchase or sale prices, results in bid rigging or collusive bidding, limits or controls production, supply, markets, technical development, investment or the provision of services, or shares the market or source of production or provision of services in any manner, including by way of allocation of geographical area or types of goods or services or number of customers in the market, is presumed to have an appreciable adverse effect on competition. Further, the Competition Act prohibits the abuse of a dominant position by any enterprise either directly or indirectly, including by way of unfair or discriminatory pricing or conditions in the sale of goods or services, using a dominant position in one relevant market to enter into, or protect, another relevant market, and denial of market access, and such practices are subject to substantial penalties and may also be subject to compensation for losses and orders to divide the enterprise. 10 If we or any member of our group, including Eros International Media Limited (“Eros India”), are further affected, directly or indirectly, by the application or interpretation of any provision of the Competition Act, or any enforcement proceedings initiated by, or claims made to the Competition Commission of India or any other similar authority, our business, results of operations and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. Acquisitions, mergers and amalgamations which exceed certain revenue and asset thresholds require prior approval by the Competition Commission of India. Any such acquisitions, mergers or amalgamations which have an appreciable adverse effect on competition in India are prohibited and void. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain approval for such future transactions on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our financial condition and results of operations fluctuate from period to period due to film release schedules and other factors and may not be indicative of results for future periods. Our financial condition and results of operations for any period fluctuate due to film release schedules in that period, none of which we can predict with reasonable certainty. Theater attendance in India has traditionally been highest during school holidays, national holidays and during festivals, and we typically aim to release big-budget films at these times. This timing of releases also takes account of competitor film releases, Indian Premier League cricket matches and the timing dictated by the film production process. As a result, our quarterly results can vary from one year to the next, and the results of one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for the next or any future quarter. Additionally, the distribution window for the theatrical release of films, and the window between the theatrical release and distribution in other channels, have each been compressing in recent years and may continue to change. Further shortening of these periods could adversely impact our revenues if consumers opt to view a film on one distribution platform over another, resulting in the cannibalizing of revenues across distribution platforms. Additionally, because our revenue and operating results are seasonal in nature due to the impact of the timing of new releases, our revenue and operating results may fluctuate from period to period, and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our accounting practices and management judgments may accentuate fluctuations in our annual and quarterly operating results and may not be comparable to other film entertainment companies. For first release film content, we use a stepped method of amortization and a first 12 months amortization rate based on management’s judgment taking into account historic and expected performance, typically amortizing 50% of the capitalized cost together with print and advertising costs for high budget films released during or after fiscal 2015, and 40% of the capitalized cost together with print and advertising costs for all other films, in the first 12 months of their initial commercial exploitation, and then the balance evenly over the lesser of the term of the rights held by us and nine years. Management determined to adjust the first-year amortization rate for high budget films because of the high contribution of theatrical revenue. Similar management judgment taking into account historic and expected performance is used to apply a stepped method of amortization on a quarterly basis within the first 12 months, within the overall parameters of the annual amortization. Typically 25% of capitalized cost together with print and advertising costs for high budget films released during or after fiscal 2015, and 20% of capitalized cost together with print and advertising costs for all other films, is amortized in the initial quarter of their commercial exploitation. In fiscal 2009 and fiscal years prior to 2009, the balance of capitalized film content costs were amortized evenly over a maximum of four years rather than nine. Because management exercises its judgment regarding amortization amounts, our amortization practices may not be comparable to other film entertainment companies. In the case of film content that we acquire after its initial exploitation, commonly referred to as library, amortization is spread evenly over the lesser of ten years after our acquisition or our license period. At least annually, we review film and content rights for indications of impairment in accordance with IAS 36: Impairment of Assets, an International Accounting Standard, or IAS. The pattern and amount by which we report amortization of our film content may be significantly impacted by a new amendment to accounting standards for revenue-based amortization methods. In May 2014, the IASB published an amendment to IAS 38 Intangible Assets (“IAS 38”), which establishes the principle for the basis of amortization of intangible assets as being the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits of an asset. The IASB clarified that the use of revenue-based methods to calculate the amortization of an asset is not generally considered appropriate because revenue generated by an activity that includes the use of an asset generally reflects factors other than the consumption of the economic benefits embodied in the asset. The IASB also clarified that revenue is generally presumed to be an inappropriate basis for measuring the consumption of the economic benefits embodied in an intangible asset, but the presumption can be rebutted in certain limited circumstances. The amendment to IAS 38 will be effective for our fiscal 2017. Because the amendment to IAS 38 has not yet been implemented widely, we cannot predict how it will impact our amortization policy for our films and the timing and amounts in which we will recognize our amortization expense under the new standard. The amendment to IAS 38 affects all IFRS reporting companies that currently amortize their intangible assets based on expectations for revenue over the income generating life of the asset, and we are not aware of any such media companies that have yet determined the impact of the amendment on their results of operations. The amendment to IAS 38 may also require us to gather additional information from third party sources, which we do not presently do, to implement an appropriate policy and monitor amortization. When the amendment becomes effective, it may have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements and results of operations. 11 The amount of revenue which we report may be impacted by a new accounting standard dealing with revenue from customers. In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“IFRS 15”). This standard provides a single, principle-based five-step model to be applied to all contracts with customers. Guidance is provided on topics such as the point at which revenue is recognized, accounting for variable consideration, costs of fulfilling and obtaining a contract and various other related matters. IFRS 15 also introduced new disclosure requirements with respect to revenue. The five steps in the model under IFRS 15 are: (i)identify the contract with the customer; (ii)identify the performance obligations in the contract; (iii)determine the transaction price; (iv)allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contracts; and (v)recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. IFRS 15 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2017. Because the amendment to IFRS 15 has only recently been published and not yet implemented widely, we cannot yet predict how it will impact our revenues under the new standard. The amendment to IFRS 15 affects all IFRS reporting companies. When the amendment becomes effective, it may have an impact on our consolidated financial statements and results of operations. If we fail to achieve or maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results or prevent fraud may be adversely affected. When we cease to qualify as an “emerging growth company” under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, we will become subject to additional requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“SOX Act”), including Section 404(b) of the SOX Act which will require our independent registered public accounting firm attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, because we qualify as an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, these attestation requirements do not apply to us for up to five years after November 18, 2013, the date of our initial public offering in the U.S., unless we cease to qualify as an “emerging growth company.” Our management began providing a report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting with this Annual Report on Form 20-F. Our management may conclude in future years, that our internal controls are not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree and may decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue an adverse opinion. If we identify additional control deficiencies as a result of the assessment process in the future, we may be unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, which are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the market price of our A ordinary shares. In preparing the consolidated financial statements for our fiscal 2014 Annual Report, a significant deficiency in our internal control over financial control was identified regarding the accuracy of checks received pending deposit with banks. We have since remedied such significant deficiency. Our revenue is subject to significant variation based on the timing of certain licenses and contracts we enter into that may account for a large portion of our revenue in the period in which it is completed, which could adversely affect our operating results. From time to time, we license film content rights to a group of films pursuant to a single license that constitutes a large portion of our revenue for the fiscal year in which the revenue from the license is recognized. The timing and size of similar licenses subjects our revenue to uncertainties and variability from period to period, which could adversely affect our operating results. We expect that we will continue to enter into licenses with customers that may represent a significant concentration of our revenues for the applicable period and we cannot guarantee that these revenues will recur. We intend to premier some of our high budget Hindi films on Eros Now, which may reduce the revenue we receive from television pre-sales on those films, which may reduce the amount of our production cost we recoup prior to a film’s release. Television pre-sales in India are an important factor in enhancing revenue predictability for our business and are part of our diversification strategy to mitigate risks of cash flow generation. In fiscal 2014, we recouped 43% to 73% of our production cost of high budget Hindi films and over 100% of our production cost of high budget Tamil and Telugu films through pre-sales contractual commitments. In 2015, we recouped 100% of our direct production cost of the one Telugu film released through contractual commitments prior to the film’s release, and we recouped 91% and 95% of our direct production cost of each of the two Tamil films released through contractual commitments prior to the films’ releases. In the case of one Hindi film we recouped 63% of the direct production cost through pre-sales. In the case of the remaining two Hindi high budget films released in the third and fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, we did not pre-sell our television rights in order to be able to premiere the films on Eros Now in July 2015 to coincide with the marketing launch of Eros Now prior to the television window. We currently expect to resume television pre-sales of our high budget Hindi films like in past years, even though some of these films will continue to premiere on Eros Now prior to airing on television. Because we intend to premier some of our high-budget Hindi films on Eros Now, we may receive less revenue from our television pre-sales of those films, which could reduce the amount of the production costs we can recoup prior to a film’s release. We have entered into certain related party transactions and may continue to rely on our founders for certain key development and support activities. We have entered, and may continue to enter, into transactions with related parties. We also rely on the Founders Group, which consists of Beech Investments, Arjan Lulla, Kishore Lulla and Vijay Ahuja and associates and enterprises controlled by certain of our directors and key management personnel for certain key development and support activities. While we believe that the Founders Group’s interests are aligned with our own, such transactions may not have been entered into on an arm’s-length basis, and we may have achieved more favorable terms had such transactions been entered into with unrelated parties. If future transactions with related parties are not entered into on an arm’s-length basis, our business may be materially harmed. 12 Further, because certain members of the Founders Group are controlling shareholders of, or have significant influence on, both us and our related parties, conflicts of interest may arise in relation to dealings between us and our related parties and may not be resolved in our favor. For further information, see “Part I — Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” We may encounter operational and other problems relating to the operations of our subsidiaries, including as a result of restrictions in our current shareholder agreements. We operate several of our businesses through subsidiaries. Our financial condition and results of operations significantly depend on the performance of our subsidiaries and the income we receive from them. Our business may be adversely affected if our ability to exercise effective control over our non-wholly owned subsidiaries is diminished in any way. Although we control these subsidiaries through direct or indirect ownership of a majority equity interest or the ability to appoint the majority of the directors on the boards of such companies, unanimous board approval is required for major decisions relating to certain of these subsidiaries. To the extent there are disagreements between us and our various minority shareholders regarding the business and operations of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries, we may be unable to resolve them in a manner that will be satisfactory to us. Our minority shareholders may: ·be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations, whether of a financial nature or otherwise; ·have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours; ·take actions contrary to our instructions, policies or objectives; ·take actions that are not acceptable to regulatory authorities; ·have financial difficulties; or ·have disputes with us. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we have entered into shareholder agreements with third party shareholders of two of our non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, Big Screen Entertainment, and Ayngaran International Limited (“Ayngaran”), and have signed a term sheet to enter into a shareholder’s agreement with Colour Yellow Productions, and may enter into similar agreements. These agreements contain various restrictions on our rights in relation to these entities, including restrictions in relation to the transfer of shares, rights of first refusal, reserved board matters and non-solicitation of employees by us. We may also face operational limitations due to restrictive covenants in such shareholder agreements. In addition, under the terms of our shareholder agreement in relation to Big Screen Entertainment, disputes between partners are required to be submitted to arbitration in Mumbai, India. These restrictions in our current shareholder agreements, and any restrictions of a similar or more onerous nature in any new or amended agreements into which we may enter, may limit our control of the relevant subsidiary or our ability to achieve our business objectives, as well as limiting our ability to realize value from our equity interests, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the parties to the shareholder agreements and with whom we have signed term sheets are companies that have duties to their own shareholders, and the interests of these shareholders with respect to the operation of Big Screen Entertainment, Colour Yellow Productions and Ayngaran may not be aligned with your interests. As a result, although we own a majority of the ownership interest in each of Big Screen Entertainment, Ayngaran and 50% of the shareholding of Colour Yellow Productions, taking actions that require approval of the minority shareholders (or their representative directors), such as entering into related party transactions, selling material assets and entering into material contracts, may be more difficult to accomplish. We depend on the services of senior management. We have, over time, built a strong team of experienced professionals on whom we depend to oversee the operations and growth of our businesses. We believe that our success substantially depends on the experience and expertise of, and the longstanding relationships with key talent and other industry participants built by, our senior management. Any loss of our senior management, any conflict of interest that may arise for such management or the inability to recruit further senior managers could impede our growth by impairing our day-to-day operations and hindering development of our business and our ability to develop, maintain and expand relationships, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, we have experienced additions to our senior management team, and our success depends in part on our ability to successfully integrate these new employees into our organization. Since 2012, we have hired several members of senior management and have added new directors. In May 2015 we announced the departure of Andrew Heffernan, who was our Group Chief Financial Officer since 2006, from the Company and the joining of Prem Parameswaran as Group Chief Financial Officer and President North America operations. We anticipate the need to hire additional members in senior management in connection with the expansion of our digital business. While some members of our senior management have entered into employment agreements that contain non-competition and non-solicitation provisions, these agreements may not be enforceable in the Isle of Man, India or the United Kingdom, whose laws govern these agreements or where our members of senior management reside. Even if enforceable, these non-competition and non-solicitation provisions are for limited time periods. 13 Some viewers or civil society organizations may find our film content objectionable. Some viewers or civil society organizations in India or other countries may object to film content produced or distributed by us based on religious, political, ideological or any other positions held by such viewers. This applies in particular, to content that is graphic in nature, including violent or romantic scenes and films that are politically oriented or targeted at a segment of the film audience. Viewers or civil society organizations, including interest groups, political parties, religious or other organizations may assert legal claims, seek to ban the exhibition of our films, protest against us or our films or object in a variety of other ways. For instance, in relation to the film Goliyon Ki Rasleela - Ram-Leela, certain civil and criminal proceedings had been initiated in various local courts in India in and around 2013, including arrest warrants against Mr. Kishore Lulla and others involved in the making of this film, alleging that this film disrespected religious sensibilities. Any of the foregoing could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The film content that we produce and distribute could result in claims being asserted, prosecuted or threatened against us based on a variety of grounds, including defamation, offending religious sentiments, invasion of privacy, negligence, obscenity or facilitating illegal activities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Our films are required to be certified in India by the Central Board of Film Certification. Pursuant to the Indian Cinematograph Act, 1952, or the Cinematograph Act, films must be certified for adult viewing or general viewing in India by the Central Board of Film Certification, or CBFC, which looks at factors such as the interest of sovereignty, integrity and security of the relevant country, friendly relations with foreign states, public order and morality. There may be similar requirements in the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia, among other jurisdictions. We may be unable to obtain the desired certification for each of our films and we may have to modify the title, content, characters, storylines, themes or concepts of a given film in order to obtain any certification or a desired certification for broadcast release that will facilitate distribution and exploitation of the film. Any modification or receipt of an undesirable certification could reduce the appeal of any affected film to our target audience and reduce our revenues from that film, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation and negative claims about us or the Indian film entertainment industry generally could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, our relationship with distributors and co-producers and our business operations. We and certain of our directors and officers are subject to various legal proceedings in India. We are also subject to certain tax proceedings in India, including service tax claims aggregating to approximately $31 million and value added tax claims aggregating to approximately $3.0 million. In addition, there have been certain public allegations made against the Indian film entertainment industry generally, as well as against certain of the entities and individuals currently active in the industry about purported links to organized crime and other negative associations. As our success in the Indian film industry partially depends on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, in particular in relation to our dealings with creative talent, co-producers, distributors and exhibitors, any such proceedings or allegations, public or private, whether or not routine or justified, could tarnish our reputation and cause creative talent, co-producers, distributors and exhibitors not to work with us. In addition, the nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary rights subjects us to the risk of significant litigation. Litigation, or even the threat of litigation, can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, and the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. We may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Anonymous letters to regulators or business associates making allegations regarding our business practices, accounting practices and/or officers and directors could have a resultant material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation and could negatively impact the market price for our A ordinary shares. In the past, when we have publicly filed a report relating to a proposed transaction in either the United Kingdom, India or the United States, we have received anonymous letters sent either to us, a banker, and/or the regulator, making allegations about our business practices and/or officers and directors. Every time we have received such a letter we have undertaken what we believe to be a reasonably prudent review, such as extensive due diligence to investigate the allegations, and where necessary our board of directors has engaged third party professional firms to report to them directly and cleared the matter from a corporate governance point of view. Having conducted these investigations, in each instance we found the allegations were without merit. However, if we receive similar letters, it could result in a diversion of management resources, time and energy, potential costs to defend ourselves, a decline in the market price for our A ordinary shares, increased share price volatility, an increased directors and officers liability insurance premiums and could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations, and ability to access the capital markets. 14 Our performance in India is linked to the stability of its policies, including taxation policy, and the political situation. The role of Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy has been and remains significant. Since 1991, India’s government has pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting companies in the media and entertainment sector, foreign investment, currency exchange rates and other matters affecting investment in our securities could change as well. A new government was elected in India in May 2014 and a significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies, and in particular, policies in relation to the film industry, could disrupt business and economic conditions in India and thereby affect our business. Taxes generally are levied on a state-by-state basis for the Indian film industry. Recently, there has been interest in rationalizing the industry’s taxes by instituting a uniform set of entertainment taxes administered by the Indian government. Such changes may increase our tax rate, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, in certain states, theater multiplexes have enjoyed entertainment tax benefits that may be disrupted or discontinued if India moves to a uniform entertainment tax system. This could slow the construction of new multiplexes, and may impact single screen theaters in tier 2 and tier 3 cities coverting their 1,000 seater theatres into multiplexes with 2 or 3 screens with seating capacity of 300 seats or less, which we believe is a key driver for domestic theatrical revenue growth. Separately, there are certain deductions available to film producers for expenditures on production of feature films released during a given year. These tax benefits may be discontinued and impact current and deferred tax liabilities. In addition, the government of India has issued and may continue to issue tariff orders setting ceiling prices for distribution of content on cable television service charges in India. Other proposed changes in the Indian law and policy environment include the following: The Government of India has proposed three major reforms in Indian tax laws, namely the goods and services tax (“GST), the direct taxes code (“DTC”), and the General Anti Avoidance Rules (“GAAR”). The Government of India has notified April 1, 2016 for the implementation of the GST in the country. As regards DTC which sought to replace the Income Tax Act, 1961, the new government has proposed to abandon the DTC, as most of its provisions were incorporated in the present Income tax Act. However, news reports indicated that the parliamentary Standing Committee on finance has recently recommended retention of certain parts of DTC and its implementation along with implementation of the GST regime. The GST would replace the indirect taxes on goods and services, such as central excise duty, service tax, customs duty, central sales tax, state value added tax, surcharge and excise, currently being collected by the central and state governments in India. The GAAR provisions were introduced through the Finance Act, 2012, were to come into effect from April 1, 2016. The government recently announced it will defer the implementation of GAAR by two years and has proposed to implement it prospectively from April 1, 2017. The GAAR provisions are intended to restrict “impermissible avoidance arrangements,” which would be any arrangement, the main purpose or one of the main purposes of which is to obtain a tax benefit and which satisfy at least one of the following tests: (i) creates rights, or obligations, not ordinarily created between persons dealing at arm’s-length; (ii) results, directly or indirectly, in misuse or abuse of provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961; (iii) lacks, or is deemed to lack, commercial substance, in whole or in part; or (iv) is entered into or carried out by means, or in a manner, not ordinarily employed for bona fide purposes. If GAAR provisions are invoked, Indian tax authorities would have wide powers, including denial of tax benefit or a benefit under a tax treaty. As the taxation system is intended to undergo significant overhaul, its consequent effects on us cannot be determined at present and there can be no assurance that such effects would not adversely affect our business and future financial performance. In the Union Budget, 2015, an increase in the rate of Service Tax from 12% to 14% was proposed and subsequently enacted with effect from June 1, 2015, pursuant to the Finance Act, 2015 (the “Act”) notified on May 14, 2015. The Act also has a provision levying Education Cess and Secondary and Higher Education Cess would also cease to have effect from same date (i.e.: June 1, 2015), as the same would be subsumed in the service tax rate of 14%. Certain other changes have also been notified to take effect from June 1, 2015. However, the date of giving effect to the provision relating to imposition of a Swachh Bharat cess on all or any taxable service will be done in due course. Swachh Bharat cess will be 2% or less. The Government will identify services and it will be applicable from the date of notification. Increase in service tax effective June 1, 2015 will have an impact on the business of the Company. Moreover, the Swachh Bharat cess, if applicable will have further impact of up to 2%. Our business and financial performance could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in or applications or interpretations of existing, or the promulgation of new, laws, rules and regulations applicable to us and our business. Such unfavorable changes could decrease demand for our products, increase costs and/or subject us to additional liabilities. 15 In addition, tax increases could place pricing pressures on cable television service providers and broadcasters, which may, among other things, restrict the ability and willingness of cable television broadcasters in India to pay for content acquisition, including for our films. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters, epidemics, terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could adversely affect the financial markets, result in a loss of business confidence and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Numerous countries, including India, have recently experienced community disturbances, strikes, terrorist attacks, riots, epidemics and natural disasters. These acts and occurrences may result in a loss of business confidence and could cause a temporary suspension of our operations if, for example, local authorities closed theaters and could have an adverse effect on the financial markets and economies of India and other countries. Such closures have previously and could in the future impact our ability to exhibit our films and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, travel restrictions as a result of such events may interrupt our marketing and distribution efforts and have an adverse impact on our ability to operate effectively. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to satisfy future claims against us. While we believe that we have adequately insured our operations and property in a way that we believe is customary in the Indian film entertainment industry and in amounts that we believe to be commercially appropriate, we may become subject to liabilities against which we are not adequately insured or against which we cannot be insured, including losses suffered that are not easily quantifiable and cause severe damage to our reputation. Film bonding, which is a customary practice for U.S. film companies, is rarely used in India. Even if a claim is made under an existing insurance policy, due to exclusions and limitations on coverage, we may not be able to successfully assert our claim for any liability or loss under such insurance policy. In addition, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types or in the amounts that we deem necessary or adequate or at premiums that we consider appropriate. The occurrence of an event for which we are not adequately or sufficiently insured, the successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, the successful assertion of claims against our co-producers, or changes in our insurance policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our Indian subsidiary, Eros India, from which we derive a substantial portion of our revenues, is publicly listed and we may lose our ability to control its activities. Our Indian subsidiary, Eros India, from which we derive a substantial portion of our revenues, is publicly listed on the Indian stock exchanges. As such, under Indian law, minority stockholders have certain rights and protections against oppression and mismanagement. Further, we own approximately 74.4% of this entity. Over time, we may lose control over its activities and, consequently, lose our ability to consolidate its revenues. Eros India is subject to the provisions of the Indian Companies Act, 2013 which has significantly changed the Indian company law framework. Also, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (the “SEBI”), the securities market regulator in India, introduced changes to the listing agreement that may subject us to enhanced compliance requirements and increase our compliance costs. A majority of the provisions and rules under the Indian Companies Act, 2013 (the “New Companies Act”) have come into effect, resulting in the corresponding provisions of the Indian Companies Act, 1956 ceasing to have effect. The New Companies Act and the rules thereunder have brought into effect significant changes to the Indian company law framework, such as in the provisions related to issue of capital (including provisions in relation to issue of securities on a private placement basis), disclosures in offer documents, corporate governance norms, accounting policies and audit matters, related party transactions, introduction of a provision allowing the initiation of class action suits in India against companies by shareholders (pending notification by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs of India) or depositors, a restriction on investment by an Indian company through more than two layers of subsidiary investment companies (subject to certain permitted exceptions), prohibitions on loans to directors, insider trading and restrictions on directors and key managerial personnel from engaging in forward dealing. Eros India needs to spend, in each financial year, at least 2% of the average net profits during the three immediately preceding financial years towards corporate social responsibility activities and disclose its corporate social responsibility policies and activities on its website. Further, the New Companies Act imposes greater monetary and other liability on Eros India and its subsidiaries and the directors of Eros India for any non-compliance. To ensure compliance with the requirements of the New Companies Act, Eros India may need to allocate additional resources, which may increase our regulatory compliance costs and divert management attention. 16 The New Companies Act has introduced certain additional requirements which do not have corresponding equivalents under the Companies Act, 1956. Accordingly, Eros India may face challenges in interpreting and complying with such provisions due to limited jurisprudence on them. In the event, our interpretation of such provisions of the New Companies Act differs from, or contradicts with, any judicial pronouncements or clarifications issued by the Government in the future, Eros India may face regulatory actions or we may be required to undertake remedial steps. Additionally, some of the provisions of the New Companies Act overlap with other existing laws and regulations (such as the corporate governance norms and insider trading regulations issued by the SEBI). Recently, the SEBI issued revised corporate governance guidelines which came into effect from October 1, 2014. Pursuant to the revised guidelines, Eros India will be required to, inter alia, maintain at least one female director on its board, establish a vigilance mechanism for directors and employees and reconstitute certain committees in accordance with the revised guidelines. Eros India may face difficulties in complying with any such requirements. Further, the impact of provisions of the New Companies Act or the revised SEBI corporate governance norms has lead to an increase in compliance requirements or in compliance costs which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Dividend distributions by our subsidiaries are subject to certain limitations under local laws, including Indian and Dubai law and other contractual restrictions. As a holding company, we rely on funds from our subsidiaries to satisfy our obligations. Dividend payments by our subsidiaries, including Eros India and Eros Worldwide FZ-LLC, or Eros Worldwide, are subject to certain limitations under local laws. For example, under Indian law, dividends other than in cash are not permitted and cash dividends are only permitted to be paid out of distributable profits. Dubai law imposes similar limitations on dividend payments. An Indian company paying dividends is also liable to pay dividend distribution tax at an effective rate of 20.4%, including cess (additional Indian education tax) and surcharges. In addition, the Shareholders Agreement of Ayngaran, limits the ability of that entity to pay dividends without shareholder approval. The Relationship Agreement with our subsidiaries may not reflect market standard terms that would have resulted from arm’s length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties and may include terms that may not be obtained from future negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. The 2009 Relationship Agreement between Eros India and Eros Worldwide FZ LLC (“Eros Worldwide”) and other Eros entities (the “Relationship Agreement”), exclusively assigns to Eros Worldwide certain intellectual property rights and all distribution rights for Indian films (other than Tamil films) held by Eros India or any of its subsidiaries other than Ayngaran and its subsidiaries, or the Eros India Group, in all territories other than India, Nepal, and Bhutan, the rights for which are retained by Eros India and its subsidiaries. In return, Eros Worldwide provides a lump sum minimum guarantee fee for each assigned film to the Eros India Group plus certain additional contingent amounts. The Relationship Agreement may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties, and the Eros’s future operating results may be negatively affected if it does not receive terms as favorable in future negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. Further, as Eros does not own 100% of Eros India, it may lose control over its activities and, consequently, its ability to ensure its continued performance under the Relationship Agreement. The transfer pricing arrangements in the Relationship Agreement are not binding on the applicable taxing authorities, and may be subject to scrutiny by such taxing authorities. Accordingly, there may be material and adverse tax consequences if the applicable taxing authorities challenge these arrangements, and they may adjust our income and expenses for tax purposes for both present and prior tax years, and assess interest on the adjusted but unpaid taxes. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our operations, including our ability to perform our obligations, fund working capital and pay dividends. As of March 31, 2015, we had $314.7 million of borrowings outstanding. We may also be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to you, including the following: ·we could have difficulty satisfying our debt obligations, and if we fail to comply with these requirements, an event of default could result; ·we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities or to pay dividends; ·covenants relating to our indebtedness may restrict our ability to make distributions to our shareholders; ·covenants relating to our indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities, which may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; ·lenders are able to require us to repay certain secured loans to each of Eros India and Eros International Limited prior to their maturity, which as of March 31, 2015, represented $78.0 million of the outstanding indebtedness of Eros India and $15.9 million of the outstanding indebtedness of Eros International Limited; 17 ·certain Eros India loan agreements are currently being considered for their annual renewal, and until these renewals are obtained, the lenders under these loan agreements may at any time require repayment of amounts outstanding, which as of March 31, 2015, totaled $9.2 million of the $78.0 million outstanding under the aforementioned Eros India indebtedness; ·we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; ·we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt; and ·we may have difficulty repaying or refinancing our obligations under our senior credit facilities on their respective maturity dates. If any of these consequences occur, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends could be adversely affected. This, in turn, could negatively affect the market price of our ordinary shares, and we may need to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds that may be realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. Our ability to incur debt and the use of our funds could be limited by the restrictive covenants in the loan agreement for our revolving credit facility as well as our GBP denominated London Stock Exchange listed bond (“UK Retail Bond”). The loan agreement for our revolving credit facility and the UK Retail Bond contains restrictive covenants, as well as requirements to comply with certain leverage and other financial maintenance tests. These covenants and requirements could limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, guaranteeing indebtedness and engaging in various types of transactions, including mergers, acquisitions and sales of assets. These covenants could place us at a disadvantage compared to some of our competitors, who may have fewer restrictive covenants and may not be required to operate under these restrictions. Further, these covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers and acquisitions or other opportunities. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful. Based on interest rates as of March 31, 2015, and assuming no additional borrowings or principal payments on our revolving credit facilities and the UK Retail Bond until their maturities, we would need approximately $96.4 million over the next year, and $141.5 million over the next five years, to meet our principal and interest payments under our debt agreements. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things: ·our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; ·our ability to refinance our debt as it becomes due, which will be affected by the cost and availability of credit; and ·our future ability to borrow under our revolving credit facilities, the availability of which depends on, among other things, our compliance with the covenants in our revolving credit facilities. There can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to refinance debt as it comes due or draw under our revolving credit facilities in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, or seek additional capital. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, refinance our debt on favorable terms or sell additional debt or equity securities or our assets, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and on our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. 18 We face risks relating to the international distribution of our films and related products. We derive a significant percentage of our net revenues from customers located outside of India. We derived 61.5% of our fiscal 2015 net revenue from the exploitation of our films in territories outside of India. We do not track revenues by geographical region other than based on where the customer who entered into a contract with us is based and not necessarily the country where the rights have been exploited or licensed. As a result, revenue by customer location may not be reflective of the potential of any given market. As a result of changes in the location of our customers, our revenues by customer location may vary year to year. Our business is subject to risks inherent in international trade, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: ·fluctuating foreign exchange rates; ·laws and policies affecting trade, investment and taxes, including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and withholding taxes and changes in these laws; ·differing cultural tastes and attitudes, including varied censorship laws; ·differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; ·financial instability and increased market concentration of buyers in other markets; ·the increased difficulty of collecting trade receivables across multiple jurisdictions; ·the instability of other economies and governments; and ·war and acts of terrorism. Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with international trade could adversely affect our revenues from non-Indian sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may pursue acquisition opportunities, which could subject us to considerable business and financial risk. We evaluate potential acquisitions of complementary businesses on an ongoing basis and may from time to time pursue acquisition opportunities, such as our February 2015 execution of a share purchase agreement to acquire Universal Power Systems Private Limited (doing business as Techzone). However, this acquisition is subject to receipt of applicable regulatory approvals and fulfillment of other closing conditions listed in the share purchase agreement. We may not be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities, assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of these opportunities or consummating acquisitions on acceptable terms. Future acquisitions may result in near term dilution to earnings, including potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or issuances of debt. Acquisitions may expose us to particular business and financial risks that include, but are not limited to: ·diverting of financial and management resources from existing operations; ·incurring indebtedness and assuming additional liabilities, known and unknown, including liabilities relating to the use of intellectual property we acquire; ·incurring significant additional capital expenditures, transaction and operating expenses and non-recurring acquisition-related charges; ·experiencing an adverse impact on our earnings from the amortization or impairment of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets; ·failing to successfully integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; ·entering new markets or marketing new products with which we are not entirely familiar; and ·failing to retain key personnel of, vendors to and clients of the acquired businesses. If we are unable to address the risks associated with acquisitions, or if we encounter expenses, difficulties, complications or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, we may fail to achieve acquisition synergies and may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than on our primary business activities. In addition, future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our A ordinary shares, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. 19 Risks Related to our A Ordinary Shares Our A ordinary share price may be highly volatile and, as a result, shareholders could lose a significant portion or all of their investment or we could become subject to securities class action litigation. Prior to November 12, 2013, our ordinary shares had been admitted on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange (“AIM”) since 2006 and our ‘A’ ordinary shares have been traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) since our initial public offering. The trading price of our ordinary shares on AIM and the NYSE has been highly volatile. For example, the highest price that our ordinary shares traded in the period beginning November 12, 2012 and ending November 12, 2013 was $4.48 and the lowest price was $2.96, prior to giving effect to the one-for-three reverse stock split effectuated on November 12, 2013. Since the listing of our A ordinary shares on the NYSE, the highest closing price of the A ordinary shares, in the period beginning November 12, 2013 and ending May 31, 2015, was $22.44 and the lowest price was $8.60. The market price of the A ordinary shares on the NYSE may fluctuate as a result of several factors, including the following: ·variations in our quarterly operating results; ·volatility in our industry, the industries of our customers and the global securities markets; ·risks relating to our business and industry, including those discussed above; ·strategic actions by us or our competitors; ·adverse judgments or settlements obligating us to pay damages; ·actual or expected changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; ·investor perception of us, the industry in which we operate, the investment opportunity associated with the A ordinary shares and our future performance; ·adverse media reports about us or our directors and officers; ·addition or departure of our executive officers; ·changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports by analysts regarding our A ordinary shares, other comparable companies or our industry generally; ·trading volume of our A ordinary shares; ·sales of our ordinary shares by us or our shareholders; ·domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; or ·the release or expiration of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding A ordinary shares. Furthermore, the stock markets recently have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions or interest rate changes may cause the market price of ordinary shares to decline. In addition, some companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may become the target of this type of litigation. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Additional equity issuances will dilute your holdings, and sales by the Founders Group could adversely affect the market price of our A ordinary shares. Sales of a large number of our ordinary shares by the Founders Group, as defined in “Part I — Item 4. Information on the Company — C. Organizational Structure” could adversely affect the market price of our A ordinary shares. Similarly, the perception that any such primary or secondary sale may occur could adversely affect the market price of our A ordinary shares. Any future issuance of our A ordinary shares by us may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders, causing the market price of our A ordinary shares to decline. In addition, any perception by potential investors that such issuances or sales might occur could also affect the trading price of our A ordinary shares. 20 The Founders Group, which includes our Chairman, Kishore Lulla, holds a substantial interest in and, through the voting rights afforded to our B ordinary shares and held by the Founders Group, will continue to have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over our business, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our B ordinary shares have ten votes per share and our A ordinary shares, which are trading on the NYSE, have one vote per share. As of March 31, 2015, the Founders Group collectively owns 46.68% of our issued share capital in the form of 1,305,505 A ordinary shares, representing 0.45% of the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares, and 25,555,200 B ordinary shares, representing all of our B ordinary shares and 88.8% of the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares. Due to the disparate voting powers attached to our two classes of ordinary shares, the Founders Group continues to have significant influence over management and affairs and over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including our management and policies and the election of our directors and senior management, the approval of lending and investment policies, revenue budgets, capital expenditure, dividend policy, significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets and strategic acquisitions, for the foreseeable future. In addition, because of this dual class structure, the Founders Group will continue to be able to control all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval until they come to own less than 10% of the outstanding ordinary shares, when all B ordinary shares held by the Founders Group will automatically convert into A ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis. This concentrated control could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company, or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer, initiating a potential merger or takeover or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company even though other holders of A ordinary shares may view a change in control as beneficial. Many of our directors and senior management also serve as directors of, or are employed by, our affiliated companies, and we cannot guarantee that any conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. As a result of these factors, members of the Founders Group may influence our material policies in a manner that could conflict with the interests of our shareholders. As a result, the market price of our A ordinary shares could be adversely affected. We will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a U.S. public company. We became a U.S. public company in November 2013. As a U.S. public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses and these expenses will likely increase after we no longer qualify as an “emerging growth company.” Being a U.S. public company increased our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition it has made it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage in the future. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. As a foreign private issuer, we are subject to different U.S. securities laws and NYSE governance standards than domestic U.S. issuers. This may afford less protection to holders of our A ordinary shares, and you may not receive corporate and company information and disclosure that you are accustomed to receiving or in a manner in which you are accustomed to receiving it. As a foreign private issuer, the rules governing the information that we disclose differ from those governing U.S. corporations pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Although we intend to report quarterly financial results and report certain material events, we are not required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or provide current reports on Form 8-K disclosing significant events within four days of their occurrence and our quarterly or current reports may contain less information than required under U.S. filings. In addition, we are exempt from the Section 14 proxy rules, and proxy statements that we distribute will not be subject to review by the SEC. Our exemption from Section 16 rules regarding sales of ordinary shares by insiders means that you will have less data in this regard than shareholders of U.S. companies that are subject to the Securities Exchange Act. As a result, you may not have all the data that you are accustomed to having when making investment decisions. For example, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder with respect to their purchases and sales of our A ordinary shares. The periodic disclosure required of foreign private issuers is more limited than that required of domestic U.S. issuers and there may therefore be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about U.S. public companies. See “Part I — Item 10. Additional Information — H. Documents on Display.” As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from complying with certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE applicable to a U.S. issuer, including the requirement that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors. Although we are in compliance with the current NYSE corporate governance requirements imposed on U.S. issuers, with the exception of our Audit Committee currently having two rather than three members, our charter does not require that we meet these requirements. 21 As the corporate governance standards applicable to us are different than those applicable to domestic U.S. issuers, you may not have the same protections afforded under U.S. law and the NYSE rules as shareholders of companies that do not have such exemptions. It is also possible that the significant ownership interest of the Founders Group could adversely affect investor perception of our corporate governance. We are an “emerging growth company” and if we decide to comply only with reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our A ordinary shares could be less attractive to investors and our share price may be more volatile. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and, for as long as we continue to be an “emerging growth company,” we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to “emerging growth companies,” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the SOX Act. We will cease to be an “emerging growth company” upon the earliest of (1) the first fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering, November 12, 2013, (2) the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenue is $1 billion or more, (3) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt securities or (4) the end of any fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year. We cannot predict if investors will find our A ordinary shares less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our A ordinary shares less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our A ordinary shares and our share price may be more volatile. You may be subject to Indian taxes on income arising through the sale of our A ordinary shares. The Indian Income Tax Act, 1961 has been amended to provide that income arising directly or indirectly through the sale of a capital asset, including shares of a company incorporated outside of India, will be subject to tax in India, if such shares derive, directly or indirectly, their value substantially from assets located in India, whether or not the seller of such shares has a residence, place of business, business connection, or any other presence in India, if, on the specified date, the value of such assets (i) represents 20% of the fair market value of all assets owned by the company or entity, or (ii) exceeds the specified amount. Further, the amendment does not deal with the interplay between this provision of Indian tax law and the existing double tax avoidance treaties that India has entered into with countries such as the United States, United Kingdom and Canada. If the Indian tax authorities determine that our A ordinary shares derive their value substantially from assets located in India and the provisions of any relevant double tax avoidance treaty are deemed to be inapplicable in this context, you may be subject to Indian income taxes on the income arising, directly or indirectly, through the sale of our A ordinary shares. For additional information, see “Part I—Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation.” We are an Isle of Man company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Isle of Man law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our constitution is set out in our memorandum and articles of association, and we are subject to the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006, as amended, — see “Part II — Item 4. Information on the Company — Government Regulations” and Isle of Man common law. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Isle of Man law are to an extent governed by the common law of the Isle of Man. The common law of the Isle of Man is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Isle of Man as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Isle of Man. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Isle of Man law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Isle of Man has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Isle of Man. Furthermore, shareholders of Isle of Man companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. company. Our board of directors may determine that a shareholder meets the criteria of a “prohibited person” and subject such shareholder’s shares to forced divestiture. Our articles of association permit our board of directors to determine that any person owning shares (directly or beneficially) constitutes a “prohibited person” and is not qualified to own shares if such person is in breach of any law or requirement of any country and, as determined solely by our board of directors, such ownership would cause a pecuniary or tax disadvantage to us, another shareholder or holders of our other securities. If our board of directors determines that a shareholder meets the above criteria of a “prohibited person,” they may direct such shareholder to transfer all A ordinary shares such shareholder owns to another person. Under the provisions of our articles of association, such a determination by our board of directors would be conclusive and binding on such shareholder. 22 If our board of directors directs such shareholder to transfer all A ordinary shares such shareholder owns, such shareholder may recognize taxable gain or loss on the transfer. See “Part I — Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation” for a more detailed description of the tax consequences of a sale or exchange or other taxable disposition of such shareholders A ordinary shares. Judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are an Isle of Man company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. A substantial part of our current operations are conducted in India. In addition, substantially all of our directors and executive officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States and we believe that a substantial portion of the assets of these persons may be located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors. Moreover, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Isle of Man or India would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether such Isle of Man or Indian courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Isle of Man or in India against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable or inaccurate research about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our ordinary shares depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We may be unable to sustain coverage by well-regarded securities and industry analysts. If either none or only a limited number of securities or industry analysts maintain coverage of our company, or if these securities or industry analysts are not widely respected within the general investment community, the trading price for our ordinary shares would be negatively impacted. In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our ordinary shares or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our ordinary shares could decrease, which might cause our share price and trading volume to decline. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. Our ability to pay dividends in the future will depend upon satisfaction of the Isle of Man 2006 Companies Act solvency test, future earnings, financial condition, cash flows, working capital requirements and capital expenditures. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. The amount of our future dividend payments, if any, will depend upon our satisfaction of the solvency test contained in the 2006 Companies Act, our future earnings, financial condition, cash flows, working capital requirements and capital expenditures. The 2006 Companies Act provides that a company satisfies the solvency test if: (i) it is able to pay its debts as they become due in the normal course of the company’s business: and (ii) the value of the company’s assets exceeds the value of its liabilities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to pay dividends. Additionally, we are restricted by the terms of certain of our current debt financing facilities and may be restricted by the terms of any future debt financings in relation to the payment of dividends. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, under United States tax law, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based upon the past and projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, we do not believe we will be a PFIC for our taxable year ending December 31, 2015, and we do not expect to become one in the future, although there can be no assurance in this regard. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC for any taxable year is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes if either: ·75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income, or ·50% or more of the average quarterly value of our gross assets in a taxable year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the then market value of our A ordinary shares, which is subject to change. We cannot assure you that we were not a PFIC for the 2013 and 2014 taxable years or that we will not be a PFIC for this or any future taxable year. Moreover, the determination of our PFIC status is based on an annual determination that cannot be made until the close of a taxable year and involves extensive factual investigation. This investigation includes ascertaining the fair market value of all of our assets on a quarterly basis and the character of each item of income we earn, which cannot be completed until the close of a taxable year, and, therefore, our U.S. counsel expresses no opinion with respect to our PFIC status. 23 If we were to be or become classified as a PFIC, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Part I — Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation”) may be subject to burdensome reporting requirements and may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the shares and on the receipt of distributions on the shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States federal income tax rules. Further, if we were a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder held our shares, we would continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder held our shares. Each U.S. Holder is urged to consult its tax advisors concerning the United States federal income tax consequences of acquiring, holding and disposing of shares if we are or become classified as a PFIC. See “Part I — Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation” for a more detailed description of the PFIC rules. 