D. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We are a newly formed blank check company in the development stage with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently formed blank check company with no operating results, and we will not commence operations until consummating our initial business combination. Because we lack an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing our initial business combination with one or more target businesses. We have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective target business concerning our initial business combination and may be unable to complete our initial business combination. If we fail to complete our initial business combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. Our public shareholders may not be afforded an opportunity to vote on our proposed business combination, unless such vote is required by law or the NASDAQ Capital Market, which means we may consummate our initial business combination even though a majority of our public shareholders do not support such a combination. We may not hold a shareholder vote before we consummate our initial business combination unless the business combination would require shareholder approval under British Virgin Islands law or the rules of the NASDAQ Capital Market or if we decide to hold a shareholder vote for business reasons. The NASDAQ Capital Market rules requires a shareholder vote in certain circumstances as discussed in more detail under “Business Overview — Effecting our initial business combination — NASDAQ Capital Market requirements for shareholder vote.” However, as long as we are an FPI, we will not be required to seek shareholder approval in those circumstances to the extent the laws of the British Virgin Islands do not require such a vote. Accordingly, we may consummate our initial business combination even if holders of a majority of our public shares do not approve of the business combination we consummate. Your only opportunity to affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination may be limited to the exercise of your right to redeem your ordinary shares from us for cash, unless we seek shareholder approval of the business combination. Since our board of directors may consummate a business combination without seeking shareholder approval, public shareholders may not have the right or opportunity to vote on the business combination, unless we seek such shareholder vote. Accordingly, your only opportunity to affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination may be limited to exercising your redemption rights within the period of time set forth in our tender offer documents mailed to our public shareholders in which we describe our business combination. In addition, your election to exercise your redemption rights could still be rejected if, as a condition of the consummation of the business combination, we are required to retain a certain minimum amount in the trust account by the target company. In no event will we redeem our ordinary shares in an amount that would cause our net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001. In addition, the redemption threshold may be further limited by the terms and conditions of a proposed business combination. The ability of our public shareholders to redeem their shares for cash may make our financial condition unattractive to potential business combination targets, which may make it difficult for us to enter into a business combination with a target. We may enter into a transaction agreement with a prospective target that requires as a closing condition that we have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash. If too many public shareholders exercise their redemption rights, we may not be able to meet such closing condition, and as a result, would not be able to proceed with the business combination. Furthermore, in no event will we redeem our public shares in an amount that would cause our net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001. Our memorandum and articles of association requires us to provide all of our public shareholders with an opportunity to redeem all of their shares in connection with the consummation of any initial business combination, although our initial shareholder has agreed to waive his redemption rights with respect to his founder shares and public shares in connection with the consummation of an initial business combination and our initial shareholder, directors and officers have agreed to waive their redemption rights with respect to any public shares in connection with the consummation of our initial business combination. Consequently, if accepting all properly submitted redemption requests would cause our net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001 or such greater amount necessary to satisfy a closing condition as described above, we would not proceed with such redemption and the related business combination and may instead search for an alternate business combination. Prospective targets would be aware of these risks and, thus, may be reluctant to enter into a business combination transaction with us. 4 If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination, our public shareholders may be forced to wait before redemption from our trust account. If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination by June 26, 2013 (or September 26, 2013 if we have entered into a definitive agreement with a target business), we will, as promptly as reasonably possible but no more than five business days thereafter, distribute the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account (less up to $50,000 of the net interest earned thereon to pay dissolution expenses), pro rata to our public shareholders by way of redemption and cease all operations except for the purposes of winding up of our affairs. Any redemption of public shareholders from the trust account shall be effected automatically by function of our memorandum and articles of association and will occur prior to any voluntary winding up. We have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to the date of our redemption or liquidation unless we consummate our initial business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where investors have sought to redeem their ordinary shares. Only upon our redemption or any liquidation will public shareholders be entitled to distributions if we are unable to complete our initial business combination. Our purchase of ordinary shares in the open market may support the market price of the ordinary shares and/or warrants during the buyback period and, accordingly, the termination of the support provided by such purchases may materially adversely affect the market price of the ordinary shares and/or warrants. Unlike many blank check companies, if we are no longer an FPI and we seek shareholder approval of our initial business combination, prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, our memorandum and articles of association and the investment management trust agreement entered into between us and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company permits the release to us from the trust account amounts necessary to purchase up to 15% of the shares sold in our initial public offering (600,000 shares) at any time commencing after the filing of a preliminary proxy statement for our initial business combination and ending on the record date for the vote to be held to approve our initial business combination. Purchases will be made only in open market transactions at times when we are not in possession of material non-public information and will not be made during a restricted period under Regulation M under the Exchange Act. Consequently, if the market does not view our initial business combination positively, these purchases may have the effect of counteracting the market’s view of our initial business combination, which would otherwise be reflected in a decline in the market price of our securities. The termination of the support provided by these purchases may materially adversely affect the market price of our securities. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required timeframe, in which case we will be forced to liquidate. Our initial shareholder, officers and directors have agreed that we must complete our initial business combination not later than June 26, 2013 (or September 26, 2013 if we have entered into a definitive agreement with a target business). We may not be able to find a suitable target business and consummate our initial business combination within such time period. If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination by June 26, 2013 (or September 26, 2013 if we have entered into a definitive agreement with a target business by June 26, 2013), we will, as promptly as reasonably possible but no more than five business days thereafter, distribute the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account (less up to $50,000 of the net interest earned thereon to pay dissolution expenses), pro rata to our public shareholders by way of redemption and cease all operations except for the purposes of winding up of our affairs, as further described herein. This redemption of public shareholders from the trust account shall be done automatically by function of our memorandum and articles of association and prior to any voluntary winding up. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per-share redemption amount received by shareholders may be less than $10.15 per share. The funds in the trust account may not be protected from third party claims against us. Although we seek to have all vendors, service providers, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we do business execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public shareholders, such parties may not execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements they may not be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account, including, but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain advantage with respect to a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refuses to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, our management will perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and will only enter into an agreement with a third party that has not executed a waiver if management believes that such third party’s engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. 5 Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refuses to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a service provider willing to execute a waiver. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Upon redemption of our public shares, if we are unable to complete our initial business combination within the required time frame, or upon the exercise of a redemption right in connection with our initial business combination, we will be required to provide for payment of claims of creditors that were not waived that may be brought against us within the 10 years following redemption. Accordingly, the per-share redemption amount received by public shareholders could be less than the $10.15 per share held in the trust account, due to claims of such creditors. Julio Gutierrez, our Chairman has agreed that he will be liable to us, if and to the extent any claims by a vendor for services rendered or products sold to us, or a prospective target business with which we have discussed entering into a transaction agreement, reduce the amounts in the trust account to below $10.15 per share except as to any claims by a third party who executed a waiver of any and all rights to seek access to the trust account and except as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our initial public offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. However, in the event that an executed waiver is deemed to be unenforceable against a third party, Mr. Gutierrez will not be responsible to the extent of any liability for such third party claims. We have not asked Mr. Gutierrez to reserve for such indemnification obligations and he may not be able to satisfy those obligations. We currently believe that Mr. Gutierrez is of substantial means and capable of funding a shortfall in our trust account, even though we have not asked him to reserve for such an eventuality. We have not independently verified whether Mr. Gutierrez has sufficient funds to satisfy the potential indemnity obligation and, therefore, he may not be able to satisfy the obligation. We believe the likelihood of Mr. Gutierrez having to indemnify the trust account is limited because we will endeavor to have all vendors and prospective target businesses as well as other entities execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to monies held in the trust account. Our disinterested directors may decide not to enforce the indemnification obligations of Mr. Gutierrez, resulting in a reduction in the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public shareholders. In the event that the proceeds in the trust account are reduced below $10.15 per share and Mr. Gutierrez asserts that he is unable to satisfy his obligations or that he has no indemnification obligations related to a particular claim, our disinterested directors (which consists of all our directors except Mr. Gutierrez) would determine on our behalf whether to take legal action against Mr. Gutierrez to enforce his indemnification obligations. While we currently expect that in exercising their fiduciary duties to us and (to the extent applicable under British Virgin Islands law) to our shareholders, our disinterested directors would take legal action on our behalf against Mr. Gutierrez to enforce his indemnification obligations to us, it is possible that our disinterested directors in exercising their business judgment may choose not to do so in any particular instance. If our directors choose not to enforce these indemnification obligations on our behalf, the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public shareholders may be reduced below $10.15 per share. If we are no longer an FPI and seek shareholder approval of our initial business combination, we, our initial shareholder, directors, officers, advisers and their affiliates may elect to purchase shares from shareholders, in which case we or they may influence a vote in favor of a proposed business combination that you do not support. If we are no longer an FPI and seek shareholder approval of our business combination and we do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, we may enter into privately negotiated transactions to purchase public shares following consummation of the business combination from shareholders who would have otherwise elected to have their shares redeemed in conjunction with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules. Our initial shareholder, directors, officers, advisers or their affiliates may also purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions (in addition to the open market purchases described herein) either prior to or following the consummation of our initial business combination. Neither we nor our directors, officers, advisers or their affiliates will make any such purchases when we or they are in possession of any material non-public information not disclosed to the seller. Such a purchase would include a contractual acknowledgement that such shareholder, although still the record holder of our shares, is no longer the beneficial owner thereof and therefore agrees not to exercise its redemption rights. In the event that we or our initial shareholder, directors, officers, advisers or their affiliates purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions from public shareholders who have already elected to exercise their redemption rights, such selling shareholders would be required to revoke their prior elections to redeem their shares. Although neither we nor they currently anticipate paying any premium purchase price (over trust value) for such public shares, in the event we or they do, the payment of a premium may not be in the best interest of those shareholders not receiving any such premium. In addition, the payment of a premium by us after the consummation of our initial business combination may not be in the best interest of the remaining shareholders who do not redeem their shares. Such shareholders will experience a reduction in book value per share compared to the value received by shareholders that have their shares purchased by us at a premium. Nevertheless, because any payment of a premium by us will be made only from proceeds released to us from the trust account following completion of a business combination, no such payments will reduce the per share amounts available in the trust account for redemption in connection with the business combination. In addition, in the event we seek shareholder approval of our business combination, our memorandum and articles of association and the investment management trust agreement entered into between us and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company permits the release to us from the trust account amounts necessary to purchase up to 15% of the public shares (600,000 shares). Due to the relatively sporadic public trading of securities of similarly structured blank check companies, it is unlikely that we would be able to make such purchases under Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act and still accomplish the intended goals of such purchases as described below. Therefore, we do not intend to comply with Rule 10b-18 and may make purchases outside of the requirements of Rule 10b-18 as we see fit. This could result in our liability for manipulation under Section 9(a)(2) and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act. 6 The purpose of such purchases would be to: (1) increase the likelihood of obtaining shareholder approval of the business combination or (2) where the purchases are made by our initial shareholder, directors, officers, advisers or their affiliates, to satisfy a closing condition in an agreement with a target that requires us to have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash at the closing of the business combination, where it appears that such requirement would otherwise not be met. This may result in the consummation of an initial business combination that may not otherwise have been possible and/or which the majority of our shareholders would not have approved. If we purchase shares using trust fund proceeds prior to the consummation of our initial business combination outside the safe harbor provisions of Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act, we could be subject to liability under the Exchange Act. This could cause the proceeds held in the trust account to be reduced and the per-share redemption price received by shareholders to be less than approximately $10.15 per share. As described above, we are permitted to withdraw trust fund proceeds prior to the consummation of our initial business combination to purchase shares. We will not make such purchases under Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act, which provides for a safe harbor from liability for manipulation under Section 9(a)(2) and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act. As such, a shareholder could bring an action against us claiming our purchases have resulted in market manipulation, because our share price and trading volume may be higher than without our purchases. If a shareholder brought such an action and a court found that we violated Section 9(a)(2) and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act, we would be subject to monetary damages to the shareholder. In addition, we may be subject to an enforcement action by the SEC. Accordingly, this could cause the proceeds held in the trust account to be reduced and the per-share redemption price received by shareholders to be less than approximately $10.15. Although we may purchase shares using trust fund proceeds, such purchases will not be made pursuant to a set purchase plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act and accordingly, we are not required to provide shareholders with any formal advance notice as to when we will make purchases, or if making purchases, when such purchases will cease. As indicated above, we may purchase shares using trust fund proceeds. However, unlike certain other similarly structured blank check companies, such purchases will not be made pursuant to a set purchase plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act that requires the company to maintain a limit order for shares to be purchased at a specific minimum price for a specific period of time. In such a situation, shareholders have the benefit of knowing exactly when purchases will commence and cease. Because our purchases will not be made pursuant to such a set purchase program, public shareholders will not have the benefit of any formal advance notice as to our decision to make purchases or, if we have decided to make such purchases, notice as to when we decide to cease making such purchases (provided that any purchases must cease no later than the date we announce our initial business combination or, if we elect to seek shareholder approval of our initial business combination, on the record date for the vote to approve our initial business combination). Our purchases of ordinary shares in privately negotiated transactions would reduce the funds available to us after the business combination. If we are no longer an FPI and seek shareholder approval of our business combination and we do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, we may privately negotiate transactions to purchase shares effective immediately following the consummation of the business combination from shareholders who would have otherwise elected to have their shares redeemed in conjunction with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules with proceeds released to us from the trust account immediately following consummation of our initial business combination. In addition, in the event we seek shareholder approval of our business combination, our memorandum and articles of association and the investment management trust agreement entered into between us and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company permits the release to us from the trust account amounts necessary to purchase to 15% of the public shares (600,000 shares). As a consequence of such purchases, the funds in our trust account that are so used will not be available to us after the business combination. 7 Purchases of ordinary shares in open market or in privately negotiated transactions by us or our initial shareholder, directors, officers, advisers or their affiliates may make it difficult for us to continue to list our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Capital Market or another national securities exchange. If we or our initial shareholder, directors, officers, advisers or their affiliates purchase ordinary shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, the public “float” of our ordinary shares and the number of beneficial holders of our securities would both be reduced, possibly making it more difficult to maintain or obtain the listing or trading of our securities on a national securities exchange. Although we do not expect to make any purchases that would cause us to become non-compliant with NASDAQ Capital Market’s continued listing rules, if the number of our public holders falls below 300, we will be non-compliant with the NASDAQ Capital Market’s continued listing rules. Our purchases of ordinary shares in privately negotiated transactions may have negative economic effects on our remaining public shareholders. If we are no longer an FPI and seek shareholder approval of our business combination and purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions from shareholders who would have otherwise elected to have their shares redeemed in conjunction with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules for a per-share pro rata portion of the trust account, our remaining public shareholders will bear the economic burden of the taxes payable (as well as, in the case of purchases which occur prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, up to $50,000 of the net interest that may be released to us from the trust account to fund our dissolution expenses in the event we do not complete our initial business combination by June 26, 2013 (or September 26, 2013 if we have entered into a definitive agreement with a target business). In addition, our remaining public shareholders following the consummation of our initial business combination will bear the economic burden of the deferred corporate finance fee as well as the amount of any premium we may pay to the per-share pro rata portion of the trust account using funds released to us from the trust account following the consummation of the business combination. This is because the shareholders from whom we purchase shares in open market or in privately negotiated transactions may receive a per share purchase price payable from the trust account that is not reduced by a pro rata share of the taxes payable on the interest earned by the trust account, up to $50,000 of dissolution expenses or the deferred corporate finance fee and, in the case of purchases at a premium, have received such premium. If we are no longer an FPI and we seek shareholder approval of our business combination and we do not conduct redemptions pursuant to the tender offer rules, and if you or a “group” of shareholders are deemed to hold in excess of 19.9% of our ordinary shares, you will lose the ability to redeem all such shares in excess of 19.9% of our ordinary shares. If we are no longer an FPI and seek shareholder approval of our initial business combination and we do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association provides that a public shareholder, individually or together with any affiliate of such shareholder or any other person with whom such shareholder is acting in concert or as a “group” (as defined under Section 13 of the Exchange Act), will be restricted from seeking redemption rights with respect to more than an aggregate of 19.9% of the shares sold in our offering. Your inability to redeem more than an aggregate of 19.9% of the shares sold in our offering will reduce your influence over our ability to consummate our initial business combination. As a result, you will continue to hold that number of shares exceeding 19.9% and, in order to dispose of such shares, you would be required to sell your shares in open market transaction, potentially at a loss, which may be material. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of many other blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our offering are intended to be used to complete our initial business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, as we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and have filed a Form 6-K, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors in blank check companies, such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Among other things, this means our units were immediately tradable. Moreover, offerings subject to Rule 419 would prohibit the release of any interest earned on funds held in the trust account to us and, if we seek shareholder approval of our initial business combination, the release of funds to us to purchase our public shares pursuant to our memorandum and articles of association, unless and until the funds in the trust account were released to us in connection with our consummation of our initial business combination. You will not have any rights or interests in funds from the trust account, except under certain limited circumstances. To liquidate your investment, therefore, you may be forced to sell your public shares or warrants, potentially at a loss. Our public shareholders shall be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only in the event of a redemption to public shareholders prior to any winding up in the event we do not consummate our initial business combination or our liquidation or if they redeem their shares pursuant to a tender offer in connection with an initial business combination that we consummate. In no other circumstances will a shareholder have any right or interest of any kind to the funds in the trust account. Accordingly, to liquidate your investment, you may be forced to sell your public shares or warrants, potentially at a loss. 8 If the net proceeds of our initial public offering not being held in the trust account, together with the interest in the trust account (net of taxes payable) which may be released to us for working capital purposes and loans from our Chairman are insufficient to allow us to operate at least until June 26, 2013 (or September 26, 2013 if we have entered into a definitive agreement with a target business), we may be unable to complete our initial business combination. The $26,631 of funds available to us outside of the trust account as of July 31, 2012, along with $15,348 due from an affiliate for advances made to such affiliate to pay our expenses, plus the interest earned on the funds held in the trust account that may be available to us, will not be sufficient to allow us to operate until June 26, 2013 (or September 26, 2013 if we have entered into a definitive agreement with a target business), assuming that our initial business combination is not consummated during that time. However, our Chairman, Julio Gutierrez, has agreed to provide funds to us to cover all our expenses not otherwise covered by the amounts set aside relating to investigating and selecting a target business, negotiating an acquisition agreement and consummating such acquisition and other working capital requirements, with loans up to a maximum of $500,000 (or a higher amount at his discretion). The loans will be due and payable upon the completion of our initial business combination and will be on terms that waive any and all rights to the funds in the trust account. Mr. Gutierrez may also choose to convert the loans into securities of any post business combination entity on terms to be decided then. Of the funds available to us, we could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we are unable to fund such down payments or “no shop” provisions, our ability to close a contemplated transaction could be impaired. Furthermore, if we entered into a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. The current low interest rate environment could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete our initial business combination since we will depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search, to pay our taxes and to complete our initial business combination. Of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, only $26,631 (plus $15,348 due from an affiliate for advances made to such affiliate to pay Company expenses) was available to us outside the trust account as of July 31, 2012 to fund our working capital requirements. Based on the current low interest rate environment, we believe the proceeds placed in the trust account will produce a nominal amount in interest until June 26, 2013 (or September 26, 2013 if we have entered into a definitive agreement with a target business). Therefore, we will need to borrow funds from Julio Gutierrez, our Chairman and initial shareholder, to operate or we may be forced to liquidate. Mr. Gutierrez has agreed to provide funds to us to cover all our expenses not otherwise covered by the amounts set aside relating to investigating and selecting a target business, negotiating an acquisition agreement and consummating such acquisition and other working capital requirements, with loans up to a maximum of $500,000 (or a higher amount at his discretion). The loans will be due and payable upon the completion of our initial business combination. Subsequent to the consummation of our initial business combination, we may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our shares price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, this diligence may not surface all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, that it would be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary amount of due diligence, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. As a result of these factors, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even if our due diligence successfully identifies certain risks, unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. 9 The classification and measurement of warrants with embedded derivative features will require liability treatment if an initial business combination occurs which may be material. After our initial business combination we will treat the outstanding warrants as a liability due to the cash settlement provisions provided in the warrant agreement. ASC 815-40-55-2 indicates that an event that causes a change of control of an issuer is not within the issuer’s control and, therefore, a contract that requires net-cash settlement upon a change in control must be classified as an asset or liability. We cannot accurately estimate what the cash settlement will be, but the expense and cash payment may be material. Changes in laws or regulations, or a failure to comply with any laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business, investments and results of operations. We are subject to laws and regulations enacted by national, regional and local governments. In particular, we are required to comply with certain SEC and other legal requirements. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws and regulations may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws and regulations and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, as interpreted and applied, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are not subject to the supervision of the Financial Services Commission of the British Virgin Islands and so our shareholders are not protected by any regulatory inspections in the British Virgin Islands. We are not an entity subject to any regulatory supervision in the British Virgin Islands by the Financial Services Commission. As a result, shareholders are not protected by any regulatory supervision or inspections by any regulatory agency in the British Virgin Islands and the company is not required to observe any restrictions in respect of its conduct save as disclosed in this prospectus or its memorandum and articles of association. If we are deemed to be insolvent, distributions, or part of them, may be delayed while the insolvency liquidator determines the extent of potential creditor claims. In these circumstances, prior payments made by us may be deemed “voidable transactions.” If we do not complete our initial business combination by June 26, 2013 (or September 26, 2013 if we have entered into a definitive agreement with a target business by June 26, 2013), this will trigger an automatic redemption of public shareholders from the trust account pursuant to our memorandum and articles of association. However, if at any time we are deemed insolvent for the purposes of the British Virgin Islands Insolvency Act, 2003 (the “Insolvency Act”) (i.e. (i) we fail to comply with the requirements of a statutory demand that has not been set aside under section 157 of the Insolvency Act; (ii) execution or other process issued on a judgment, decree or order of a British Virgin Islands court in favor of any of our creditors is returned wholly or partly unsatisfied; or (iii) either the value of our liabilities exceeds our assets, or we are unable to pay our debts as they fall due), we are required to immediately enter insolvent liquidation. In these circumstances, a liquidator will be appointed who will give notice to our creditors inviting them to submit their claims for payment, by notifying known creditors (if any) who have not submitted claims and by placing a public advertisement in the British Virgin Islands Official Gazette and a British Virgin Islands newspaper, and taking any other steps he considers appropriate, after which our assets would be distributed. Following the process of insolvent liquidation, the liquidator will complete its final report and accounts and will then notify the Registrar of Corporate Affairs in the British Virgin Islands. The liquidator may determine that he requires additional time to evaluate creditors’ claims (particularly if there is uncertainty over the validity or extent of the claims of any creditors). Also, a creditor or shareholder may file a petition with the British Virgin Islands court which, if successful, may result in our liquidation being subject to the supervision of that court. Such events might delay distribution of some or all of our assets to our public shareholders. In such liquidation proceedings, the funds held in our trust account may be included in our estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our shareholders. To the extent any such claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public shareholders the amounts otherwise payable to them. If we are deemed insolvent, then there are also limited circumstances where prior payments made to our shareholders or other parties may be deemed to be a “voidable transaction” for the purposes of the Insolvency Act. A voidable transaction would be, for these purposes, payments made as “unfair preferences” or “transactions at an undervalue.” Where a payment was a risk of being a voidable transaction, a liquidator appointed over an insolvent company could apply to the British Virgin Islands Court for an order, inter alia, for the transaction to be set aside as a voidable transaction in whole or in part. 10 If deemed to be insolvent, distributions made to public shareholders, or part of them, from our trust account may be subject to claw back in certain circumstances. If we do not complete our initial business combination by June 26, 2013 (or September 26, 2013 if we have entered into a definitive agreement with a target business), and instead distribute the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account (less up to $50,000 of the net interest earned thereon to pay dissolution expenses), pro rata to our public shareholders by way of redemption, it will be necessary for our directors to pass a board resolution approving the redemption of those ordinary shares and the payment of the proceeds to public shareholders. Such board resolutions are required to confirm that we satisfy the solvency test prescribed by the Companies Act, (namely that our assets exceed our liabilities; and that we are able to pay our debts as they fall due). If, after the redemption proceeds are paid to public shareholders, it transpires that our financial position at the time was such that it did not satisfy the solvency test, the Companies Act provides a mechanism by which those proceeds could be recovered from public shareholders. However, the Companies Act also provides for circumstances where such proceeds could not be subject to claw back, namely where (a) the public shareholders received the proceeds in good faith and without knowledge of our failure to satisfy the solvency test; (b) a public shareholder altered its position in reliance of the validity of the payment of the proceeds; or (c) it would be unfair to require repayment of the proceeds in full or at all. An investor may be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences in the event the Internal Revenue Service were to disagree with the U.S. federal income tax consequences described herein. As described in the section of this report captioned “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — General,” we have not sought a ruling from the IRS as to any U.S. federal income tax consequences described herein. The IRS may disagree with the descriptions of U.S. federal income tax consequences contained herein, and its determination may be upheld by a court. Any such determination could subject an investor or us to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences that would be different than those described herein. Accordingly, each prospective investor is urged to consult a tax adviser with respect to the specific tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership and disposition of our ordinary shares, warrants and units, including the applicability and effect of state, local or non-U.S. tax laws, as well as U.S. federal tax laws. There is a risk the IRS will disagree with an allocation of the unit purchase price between the ordinary shares and the warrants underlying such units. There is no authority that addresses the U.S. federal income tax treatment of the units. Therefore, the allocation of the purchase price between the ordinary share and the warrant to acquire one ordinary share that makes up each unit is uncertain. However, in the case of investment units consisting of one debt instrument and one warrant or other equity security, the tax law requires the holder of such investment unit to allocate its purchase price based on the relevant fair market value of each component of such investment unit. By analogy to the tax law applicable to debt instrument investment units, each unit should be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as consisting of one ordinary share and one warrant to acquire one ordinary share. Based on this analogy, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, each holder of a unit must allocate the purchase price of a unit between the ordinary share and the warrant that comprise the unit based on the relative fair market value of each at the time of purchase. The price allocated to each ordinary share and the warrant will be the holder’s tax basis in such share or warrant, as the case may be. The foregoing treatment of our ordinary shares and warrants and a holder’s purchase price allocation are not binding on the IRS or the courts. Because there are no authorities that directly address instruments that are similar to the units, no assurance can be given that the IRS or the courts will agree with the characterization described above or the taxation discussion contained herein. Accordingly, each holder is advised to consult its own tax adviser regarding an allocation of the purchase price between the ordinary share and the warrant that comprise a unit. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination and to be successful thereafter will be largely dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following our initial business combination. The loss of key personnel could negatively impact the operations and profitability of our post-combination business. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The role of our key personnel in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following our initial business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after our initial business combination, our assessment of these individuals may not prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a company regulated by the SEC, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. The officers and directors of an acquisition candidate may resign upon consummation of our initial business combination. The loss of an acquisition target’s key personnel could negatively impact the operations and profitability of our post-combination business. The role of an acquisition candidate’s key personnel upon the consummation of our initial business combination cannot be ascertained at this time. Although we contemplate that certain members of an acquisition candidate’s management team will remain associated with the acquisition candidate following our initial business combination, it is possible that some members of the management team of an acquisition candidate will not wish to remain in place. 11 We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete our initial business combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition and thus negatively impact the value of our shareholders’ investment in us. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this annual report to issue any notes or other debt securities, or to otherwise incur outstanding debt, we may choose to incur substantial debt to complete our initial business combination. We and our officers and directors have agreed that we will not incur any indebtedness unless we have obtained from the lender a waiver of any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account. As such, although no issuance of debt will affect the per share amount available for redemption from the trust account, the incurrence of debt could have a variety of negative effects, including: ● default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; ● acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; ● our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; ● our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding; ● our inability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares; ● using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our ordinary shares if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; ● limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; ● increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and ● limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. Our memorandum and articles of association provide that we will not incur any indebtedness unless we have obtained from the lender a waiver of any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account. As such, no incurrence of debt will affect the per share amount available for redemption from the trust account. We may attempt to simultaneously consummate business combinations with multiple prospective targets, which may hinder our ability to consummate our initial business combination and give rise to increased costs and risks that could negatively impact our operations and profitability. If we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses that are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete our initial business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. 12 We may attempt to consummate our initial business combination with a private company about which little information is available, which may result in our initial business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we suspected, if at all. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may seek to effectuate our initial business combination with a privately held company. By definition, very little public information exists about private companies, and we could be required to make our decision on whether to pursue a potential initial business combination on the basis of limited information, which may result in our initial business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we suspected, if at all. An active market for our securities may not develop, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. The price of our securities may vary significantly due to one or more potential business combinations and general market and economic conditions. An active trading market for our securities may never develop or, if developed, may not be sustained. In addition, the price of the securities can vary due to general economic conditions and forecasts, our general business condition and the release of our financial reports. Additionally, if our securities become delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market for any reason, and are quoted on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board, a FINRA-sponsored and operated inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not included in a securities exchange, the liquidity and price of our securities may be more limited than if we were quoted or listed on NASDAQ or another national exchange. You may be unable to sell your securities unless a market can be sustained. Because we must furnish our shareholders with target business financial statements, we may lose the ability to complete an otherwise advantageous initial business combination with some prospective target businesses. The United States federal proxy rules require that a proxy statement with respect to a vote on a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports. We will include the same financial statement disclosure in connection with our tender offer documents, whether or not they are required under the tender offer rules. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses we may acquire because some targets may be unable to provide such statements in time for us to disclose such statements in accordance with federal proxy rules and consummate our initial business combination within our time frame. We may lose our status as an FPI if we acquire a business in the United States, which will make us subject to additional regulatory disclosures which may require substantial financial and management resources. If we acquire a business in the United States and we determine thereafter that we are no longer an FPI, we will become subject to the following requirements, among others: ● The filing of our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K with the SEC; ● Preparing our financial statements in accordance with GAAP rather than the ability to use any of GAAP, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB IFRS) or local GAAP; ● Being subject to the U.S. proxy rules; ● Being subject to Regulation FD which requires issuers to make public disclosures of any “material non-public information” that has been selectively disclosed to securities industry professionals (for example, analysts) or shareholders; ● Being subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Although the Sarbanes-Oxley Act generally does not distinguish between domestic U.S. issuers and FPIs, the SEC has adopted a number of significant exemptions for the benefit of FPIs in the application of its rules adopted under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These exemptions cover areas such as: (1) audit committee independence; and (2) black-out trading restrictions (Regulation BTR); and ● Being subject to a more detailed executive compensation disclosure. 13 We may be forced expend significant management and financial resources to meet our disclosure obligations to the extent we are required to comply with the foregoing requirements. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the United States Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, our activities may be restricted, including: ● restrictions on the nature of our investments; and ● restrictions on the issuance of securities, each of which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: ● registration as an investment company; ● adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and ● reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. If we were deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expenses for which we have not allotted funds and may hinder our ability to consummate our initial business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public shareholders may receive no more than $10.15 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. Although we are required to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the ordinary shares underlying the warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their warrants, a registration statement may not be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise their warrants and therefore the warrants could expire worthless. Holders of our warrants will be able to exercise the warrants only if we have an effective registration statement covering the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to such ordinary shares and such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. We may not be able to maintain an effective registration statement covering the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants. Factors such as an unexpected inability to remain current in our SEC reporting obligations or other material developments concerning our business could present difficulties in maintaining an effective registration statement and a current prospectus. Holders of warrants will not be entitled to a cash settlement for their warrants if we fail to have an effective registration statement or a current prospectus available relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants. If we fail to have an effective registration statement or a current prospectus available relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants, our warrant holders may not be able to exercise their warrants and the warrants could expire worthless. We are not required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm, and consequently, an independent source may not confirm that the price we are paying for the business is fair to our shareholders from a financial point of view. Unless we consummate our initial business combination with an affiliated entity, we are not required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that the price we are paying is fair to our shareholders from a financial point of view. If no opinion is obtained, our shareholders will be relying on the judgment of our board of directors, who will determine fair market value and/or total enterprise value according to reasonably accepted valuation standards and methodologies. Such standards and methodologies used will be disclosed in our tender offer documents or proxy solicitation materials, as applicable, related to our initial business combination. 14 We may issue additional ordinary or preferred shares to complete our initial business combination or under an employee incentive plan after consummation of our initial business combination, which would dilute the interest of our shareholders and likely present other risks. Our memorandum and articles of association authorize the issuance of an unlimited amount of both ordinary shares of no par value and preferred shares of no par value. We may issue a substantial number of additional ordinary or preferred shares to complete our initial business combination or under an employee incentive plan after consummation of our initial business combination. The issuance of additional ordinary or preferred shares: ● may significantly dilute the existing equity interest of investors; ● may subordinate the rights of holders of ordinary shares if preferred shares are issued with rights senior to those afforded our ordinary shares; ● could cause a change in control if a substantial number of ordinary shares are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and ● may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our units, ordinary shares and/or warrants. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. We anticipate that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If we decide not to complete a specific initial business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, if we reach an agreement relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate our initial business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public shareholders may receive no more than $10.15 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. We are dependent upon our officers and directors and their loss could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of individuals and, in particular, our officers and directors. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our officers and directors, at least until we have consummated our initial business combination. In addition, our officers and directors are not required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential business combinations and monitoring the related due diligence. Additionally, certain of our officers and directors engage in consulting and advisory activities. All of the above could cause our officers and directors to not spend the requisite time pursuing our potential targets for our initial business combination. Furthermore, we do not have an employment agreement with, or key-man insurance on the life of, any of our directors or officers. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of our directors or officers, or their spending less time than anticipated on our activities, could have a detrimental effect on us and our ability to consummate our initial business combination. Certain of our officers and directors are now, and all of them may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Until we consummate our business combination, we intend to engage in the business of identifying and combining with one or more businesses. Alan Menkes, one of our directors, is currently involved with a similar blank-check company, Empeiria Acquisition Corp., which is quoted on the OTCBB, and has a fiduciary duty to present suitable business combination targets to such entity prior to presenting such opportunities to us. However, Empeiria has identified a target business and entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with respect to a potential business combination (although such business combination has not yet been consummated). Accordingly, until such business combination is terminated or abandoned, if ever, we believe Mr. Menkes will be able to present a particular business opportunity to us first. Our other officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with other entities that are engaged in a similar business. 15 Our officers may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe certain fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor, and as a result, a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us. Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following our initial business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous. Our key personnel may be able to remain with the company after the consummation of our initial business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to us after the consummation of the business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. However, we believe the ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of our initial business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. There is no certainty, however, that any of our key personnel will remain with us after the consummation of our initial business combination. Our key personnel may not remain in senior management or advisory positions with us. The determination as to whether any of our key personnel will remain with us will be made at the time of our initial business combination. We may have a limited ability to assess the management of a prospective target business and, as a result, may effect our initial business combination with a target business whose management may not have the skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company. When evaluating the desirability of effecting our initial business combination with a prospective target business, our ability to assess the target business’ management may be limited due to a lack of time, resources or information. Our assessment of the capabilities of the target’s management, therefore, may prove to be incorrect and such management may lack the skills, qualifications or abilities we suspected. Should the target’s management not possess the skills, qualifications or abilities necessary to manage a public company, the operations and profitability of the post-combination business may be negatively impacted. We may engage in our initial business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships with entities that may be affiliated with our executive officers, directors or existing holders which may raise potential conflicts of interest. In light of the involvement of our initial shareholder, officers and directors with other entities, we may decide to acquire one or more businesses affiliated with our initial shareholder, officers or directors. Our directors also serve as officers and board members for other entities. Although we will not be specifically focusing on, or targeting, any transaction with any affiliated entities, we would pursue such a transaction if we determined that such affiliated entity met our criteria for our initial business combination as set forth in “Business Overview — Effecting our initial business combination — Selection of a target business and structuring of our initial business combination” and such transaction was approved by a majority of our disinterested directors. Despite our agreement to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm regarding the fairness to our shareholders from a financial point of view of a business combination with one or more domestic or international businesses affiliated with our executive officers, directors or existing holders, potential conflicts of interest still may exist and, as a result, the terms of the business combination may not be as advantageous to our public shareholders as they would be absent any conflicts of interest. Since our initial shareholder will lose his entire investment in us if our initial business combination is not consummated and our officers and directors have significant financial interests in us, a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular acquisition target is appropriate for our initial business combination. On October 5, 2011, our initial shareholder purchased 1,725,000 founder shares for a purchase price of $25,000, or approximately $0.014 per share. On March 14, 2012, our directors approved a 1.125-for-1 reverse split of our outstanding ordinary shares, reducing the number of outstanding ordinary shares from 1,725,000 to 1,533,333. These shares include 200,000 ordinary shares that were subject to forfeiture if the underwriters did not exercise their over-allotment option. All 200,000 shares were forfeited when the over-allotment option period expired on May 4, 2012. The founder shares will be worthless if we do not consummate an initial business combination. In addition, in connection with the consummation of our initial public offering, our initial investors purchased an aggregate of 3,000,000 investor warrants in a private placement, each exercisable for one ordinary share at $10.00 per share, for a purchase price of $2,250,000, or $0.75 per warrant, that will also be worthless if we do not consummate our initial business combination. Since our officers and directors are direct shareholders and are affiliated with our initial investors, the personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business combination, completing an initial business combination and influencing the operation of the business following our initial business combination. 16 The requirement that we complete our initial business combination by June 26, 2013 (or September 26, 2013 if we have entered into a definitive agreement with a target business prior to September 26, 2013) may give potential target businesses leverage over us in negotiating a business combination and may decrease our ability to conduct due diligence on potential business combination targets as we approach our dissolution deadline, which could undermine our ability to consummate our initial business combination on terms that would produce value for our shareholders. Any potential target business with which we enter into negotiations concerning our initial business combination will be aware that we must consummate our initial business combination not later than June 26, 2013 (or September 26, 2013 if we have entered into a definitive agreement with a target business). Consequently, such target businesses may obtain leverage over us in negotiating our initial business combination, knowing that if we do not complete our initial business combination with that particular target business, we may be unable to complete our initial business combination with any target business. This risk will increase as we get closer to the timeframe described above. In addition, we may have limited time to conduct due diligence and may enter into our initial business combination on terms that we would have rejected upon a more comprehensive investigation. Because we have not selected a particular business or geographic focus or any specific target businesses with which to pursue our initial business combination, you will be unable to ascertain the merits or risks of any particular target business’ operations. We may pursue acquisition opportunities in any geographic region, but may rely upon our management team’s background in the United States and Latin America. Also, while we may pursue an acquisition opportunity in any business industry or sector, we intend to focus on industries or sectors that complement our management team’s background, such as the fields of food, industrial technology, media and communications, agribusiness and hospitality sectors in MERCOSUR and its associated member countries and businesses focused on serving the Hispanic markets in the United States. Our only restriction under our articles and memorandum of association is that we will not be permitted to effectuate our initial business combination with another blank check company or similar company with nominal operations. To the extent we consummate our initial business combination, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations with which we combine. For example, if we combine with a financially unstable business or an entity lacking an established record of sales or earnings, we may be affected by the risks inherent in the business and operations of a financially unstable or a development stage entity. Although our officers and directors will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we may not properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors or that we will have adequate time to complete due diligence. Furthermore, some of these risks may be outside of our control and leave us with no ability to control or reduce the chances that those risks will adversely impact a target business. An investment in our units may not ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if such opportunity were available, in an acquisition target. We may seek investment opportunities outside of our management’s area of expertise and our management may not be able to adequately ascertain or assess all significant risks associated with the target company. There is no limitation on the geography, industry or business sector we may consider when contemplating our initial business combination. We may therefore be presented with a business combination candidate in an industry unfamiliar to our management team, but determine that such candidate offers an attractive investment opportunity for our company. In the event we elect to pursue an investment outside of our management’s expertise, our management’s experience may not be directly applicable to the target business or their evaluation of its operations. Although we identified general criteria and guidelines that we believe are important in evaluating prospective target businesses, we may enter into our initial business combination with a target that does not meet such criteria and guidelines, and as a result, the target business with which we enter into our initial business combination may not have attributes entirely consistent with our general criteria and guidelines. Although we have identified specific criteria and guidelines for evaluating prospective target businesses, it is possible that a target business with which we enter into our initial business combination will not have all of these positive attributes. If we consummate our initial business combination with a target that does not meet some or all of these guidelines, such combination may not be as successful as a combination with a business that does meet all of our general criteria and guidelines. In addition, if we announce our initial business combination with a target that does not meet our general criteria and guidelines, a greater number of shareholders may exercise their redemption rights, which may make it difficult for us to meet any closing condition with a target business that requires us to have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash. In addition, if we are no longer an FPI and shareholder approval of the transaction is required by law, the NASDAQ Capital Market or we decide to obtain shareholder approval for business reasons, it may be more difficult for us to attain shareholder approval of our initial business combination if the target business does not meet our general criteria and guidelines. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public shareholders may receive no more than $10.15 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. 17 Our officers, directors, securityholders and their respective affiliates may have competitive pecuniary interests that conflict with our interests. We have not adopted a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary or financial interest in any investment to be acquired or disposed of by us or in any transaction to which we are a party or have an interest. In fact, we may enter into our initial business combination with a target business that is affiliated with one or more of our initial shareholder, or our directors or officers, although we do not intend to do so. Further, we do not have a policy that expressly prohibits any of our initial shareholder, officers, directors or their respective affiliates from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by us. Accordingly, such persons or entities may have a conflict between their interests and ours which could lead us to pursuing a less desirable target and/or ultimately being unable to consummate our initial business combination. We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number of products or services. This lack of diversification may negatively impact our operations and profitability. The net proceeds from our initial public offering and private placement have provided us with $40,600,000 that we may use to complete our initial business combination. We may effectuate our initial business combination with a single target business or multiple target businesses simultaneously. However, we may not be able to effectuate our initial business combination with more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. By consummating our initial business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: ● solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, property or asset, or ● dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to our initial business combination. The ability of a large number of our shareholders to exercise redemption rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. In connection with the successful consummation of our business combination, we may redeem pursuant to a tender offer up to that number of ordinary shares that would permit us to maintain net tangible assets of $5,000,001. If our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, the redemption threshold may be further limited. Alternatively, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such redemption, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of shareholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect. If the acquisition involves the issuance of our shares as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our shares to the target or its shareholders to make up for the failure to satisfy a minimum cash requirement. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. Unlike many blank check companies, we do not have a specified maximum redemption threshold. The absence of such a redemption threshold will make it easier for us to consummate our initial business combination with which a substantial majority of our shareholders do not agree. Since we have no specified percentage threshold for redemption contained in our memorandum and articles of association, our structure is different in this respect from the structure that has been used by many blank check companies. Many blank check companies would not be able to consummate an initial business combination if the holders of the company’s public shares voted against a proposed business combination and elected to redeem or convert more than a specified percentage of the shares sold in such company’s initial public offering, which percentage threshold has typically been between 19.99% and 39.99%. As a result, many blank check companies have been unable to complete business combinations because the amount of shares voted by their public shareholders electing conversion exceeded the maximum conversion threshold pursuant to which such company could proceed with our initial business combination. As a result, we may be able to consummate our initial business combination even though a substantial majority of our public shareholders do not agree with the transaction and have redeemed their shares or, if we are no longer an FPI and we seek shareholder approval of our initial business combination and do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, shareholders that would otherwise vote against the transaction may be able to enter into privately negotiated agreements to sell their shares to us or our initial shareholder, officers, directors, advisers or their affiliates. However, in no event will we redeem our public shares in an amount that would cause our net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001. Furthermore, the redemption threshold may be further limited by the terms and conditions of our initial business combination. In such case, we would not proceed with the redemption of our public shares and the related business combination, and instead may search for an alternate business combination. 18 The requirement that we maintain a minimum net worth or retain a certain amount of cash could increase the probability that our business combination would be unsuccessful and that you would have to wait for liquidation in order to redeem your shares. If, pursuant to the terms of our proposed business combination, we are required to maintain a minimum net worth or retain a certain amount of cash in trust in order to consummate the business combination and regardless of whether we proceed with redemptions under the tender or proxy rules, the probability that our business combination would be unsuccessful is increased. If our business combination is unsuccessful, you would not receive your pro rata portion of the trust account until we liquidate. If you are in need of immediate liquidity, you could attempt to sell your shares in the open market; however, at such time our shares may trade at a discount to the pro rata amount in our trust account. In either situation, you may suffer a material loss on your investment or lose the benefit of funds expected in connection with our redemption until we liquidate or you are able to sell your shares in the open market. The exercise price for the public warrants is higher than in many similar blank check company offerings in the past, and, accordingly, the warrants are more likely to expire worthless. The exercise price of the warrants is higher than is typical in many similar blank check companies. Historically, the exercise price of a warrant was generally less than the purchase price of the units in the initial public offering. The exercise price for our public warrants is $10.00 per share. As a result, the warrants are less likely to ever be in the money and more likely to expire worthless. In order to effectuate their initial business combination, blank check companies have, in the recent past, amended various provisions of their charters and modified governing instruments. We may seek to amend our memorandum and articles of association or governing instruments in a manner that will make it easier for us to consummate our initial business combination that our shareholders may not support. In order to effectuate their initial business combination, blank check companies have, in the recent past, amended various provisions of their charters and modified governing instruments. For example, blank check companies have amended the definition of business combination, increased redemption thresholds and changed industry focus. We may seek to amend our charter or governing instruments in order to effectuate our initial business combination. The provisions of our memorandum and articles of association that relate to us entering into a business combination may be amended by a lower amendment threshold than those employed by many blank check companies. It may be easier for us, therefore, to amend our memorandum and articles of association to facilitate the consummation of an initial business combination that our shareholders may not support. Many blank check companies have a provision in their charter which prohibits the amendment of certain of its provisions, including those which relate to a company’s pre-business combination activity, without approval by a certain percentage of the company’s shareholders. Typically, amendment of these provisions requires approval by between 90% and 100% of the company’s public shareholders. Our memorandum and articles of association provides that any of its provisions, including those related to pre-business combination activity, may be amended, prior to our business combination, if approved by the affirmative vote of holders holding at least 65% (or 50% if approved in connection with our initial business combination) of our outstanding shares that have voted on such amendment and are entitled to vote. In addition, our memorandum and articles of association, excluding the provisions relating to shareholder’s rights or pre-business combination activity, may be amended with the approval of the directors. Our initial shareholder, who beneficially owns 25% of our outstanding ordinary shares (assuming no purchase of units or ordinary shares in the open market), will participate in any vote to amend our memorandum and articles of association and will have the discretion to vote in any manner he chooses. As a result, we may be able to amend the provisions of our memorandum and articles of association which govern our pre-business combination behavior more easily that many blank check companies, and this may increase our ability to consummate an initial business combination with which our shareholders may not agree. Our initial shareholder controls a substantial interest in us and thus may exert a substantial influence on actions requiring a shareholder vote, potentially in a manner that you do not support. Our initial shareholder, Julio Gutierrez, owns 25.0% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares (assuming no purchase of any units or ordinary shares in the open market). Accordingly, he may exert a substantial influence on actions requiring a shareholder vote, potentially in a manner that you do not support, including amendments to our memorandum and articles of association. If we, our initial shareholder or members of our management team purchases any units or any additional ordinary shares in the aftermarket or in privately negotiated transactions, this would increase their control. Factors that would be considered in making such additional purchases would include consideration of the current trading price of our ordinary shares. 19 In addition, our board of directors, whose members were elected by our initial shareholder, is and will be divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely there will be an annual meeting of shareholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial shareholder, because of his ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our initial shareholder will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of our initial business combination. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public shareholders will receive no more than $10.15 per share, and may receive less than such amount, on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our offering, including the interest earned on the proceeds held in the trust account that may be available to us for our initial business combination, and the loan of up to $500,000 from Julio Gutierrez, our Chairman, will be sufficient to allow us to consummate our initial business combination, because we have not yet identified any prospective target business we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of our initial business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, the obligation to repurchase for cash a significant number of shares from shareholders who elect redemption in connection with our initial business combination or the terms of negotiated transactions to purchase shares in connection with our initial business combination, we may be required to seek additional financing or to abandon the proposed business combination. Financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The current economic environment has made it especially difficult for companies to obtain acquisition financing. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate our initial business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular initial business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination our warrants will expire worthless and our public shareholders may receive no more than $10.15 per share on our redemption, although they are not guaranteed to receive that amount. Due to potential claims of creditors, the actual value of the per-share redemption price may be less than $10.15 per share. For example, if a third party brought an action against us and a court found that we were liable, we would be subject to monetary damages to such person, which could cause the proceeds held in the trust account to be reduced and the per-share redemption price received by our public shareholders to be less than approximately $10.15. In addition, even if we do not need additional financing to consummate our initial business combination, we may require such financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. We may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders with the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants. Our warrants are issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between Continental Transfer & Stock Company, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding public warrants approve of such amendment. Although our ability to amend the terms of the warrants with the consent of at least 65% of the then outstanding warrants is unlimited, examples of such amendments could be amendments to, among other things, increase the exercise price of the warrants, shorten the exercise period or decrease the number of ordinary shares purchasable upon exercise of a warrant. We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to you, thereby making your warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of the ordinary shares equals or exceeds $16.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending on the third business day prior to proper notice of such redemption, provided that on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time we redeem the warrants, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus in respect thereof is available. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Redemption of the outstanding warrants could force you (1) to exercise your warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for you to do so, (2) to sell your warrants at the then-current market price when you might otherwise wish to hold your warrants or (3) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of your warrants. None of the investor warrants or underwriter warrants will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by our initial investors, the underwriters (and/or their designees) or their permitted transferees. 20 Our warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares and make it more difficult to effectuate our initial business combination. We issued warrants to purchase 4,000,000 ordinary shares as part of the units sold in our initial public offering and, simultaneously with the closing of our initial public offering, we issued in the private placement an aggregate of 3,266,667 warrants, each exercisable to purchase one ordinary share at $10.00 per share. In addition, if our officers and directors make any working capital loans, they may convert those loans into investor warrants at $0.75 per warrant. To the extent we issue ordinary shares to effectuate our initial business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional ordinary shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle to a target business. Such warrants, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares and reduce the value of the ordinary shares issued to complete the business combination. Therefore, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate our initial business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. The investor warrants and the underwriter warrants are identical to the warrants sold as part of the units in our initial public offering except that, so long as they are held by our initial investors, the underwriters (and/or their designees) or their permitted transferees, (1) they will not be redeemable by us and (2) they (including the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of these warrants) may not, subject to certain limited exceptions, be transferred, assigned or sold by the initial investors or the underwriters (and/or their designees) until 30 days after the completion of our initial business combination. Additionally, for so long as the underwriter warrants are held by the underwriters (and/or their designees), they may not be exercised after the five year anniversary of the effective date of the registration statement relating to our initial public offering. If we redeem our public warrants, our non-redeemable investor warrants could provide the purchasers thereof with the ability to realize a larger gain than the public warrant holders. The warrants held by our public warrant holders may be called for redemption at any time after the warrants become exercisable: ● in whole and not in part, ● at a price of $0.01 per warrant at any time after the warrants become exercisable, ● upon not less than 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, and ● if, and only if, the last sales price of our ordinary shares equals or exceeds $16.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption to warrant holders. In addition, we may not redeem the warrants unless the ordinary shares underlying those warrants are covered by an effective registration statement from the beginning of the measurement period through the date fixed for the redemption. As a result of the investor warrants not being subject to the redemption feature that our publicly-held warrants are subject to, holders of the investor warrants, or their permitted transferees, could realize a larger gain than our public warrant holders in the event we redeem our public warrants. Compliance obligations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may make it more difficult for us to effectuate our initial business combination, require substantial financial and management resources, and increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls beginning with this annual report. The fact that we are a blank check company makes compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act particularly burdensome on us as compared to all public companies because a target company with which we seek to complete our initial business combination may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of its internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. 21 Because any target business with which we attempt to complete a business combination may be required to provide our shareholders with financial statements prepared in accordance with or reconciled to United States generally accepted accounting principles or International Financial Reporting Standards, prospective target businesses may be limited. In accordance with requirements of United States federal securities laws, in order to seek shareholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business may be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or International Financial Reporting Standards, as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, or International GAAP, and audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. If we decide to seek shareholder approval, the U.S. proxy rules require that a proxy statement with respect to a vote on a business combination include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure. Thus, to the extent that a proposed target business does not have financial statements which have been prepared with, or which can be reconciled to, GAAP or International GAAP, and audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, we may not be able to complete a business combination with that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may complete a business combination. Furthermore, to the extent we seek to acquire a target business that does not have financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP, or International GAAP, it could make it more difficult for our management to analyze such target business. It could also delay our preparation of our Form 6-K or our proxy statement in the event we are required to seek shareholder approval and which we will send to shareholders relating to the proposed business combination with such a target business, thereby making it more difficult for us to consummate such a business combination. As an FPI, we are permitted to, and we will, rely on exemptions from certain NASDAQ corporate governance standards and SEC rules and regulations applicable to U.S. issuers. This may afford less protection to holders of our securities. As an FPI, we are permitted to, and we will, follow home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, which in general require listed companies to have, among other things, a majority independent board of directors, a nominating committee consisting solely of independent directors and establish a formal director nomination process. The corporate governance practice in our home country, the British Virgin Islands, does not require the implementation of a nominating committee or establishment of a formal director nomination process, the formation of an audit committee or if such a committee is formed that it have any specific composition, that a board of directors consist of a majority of independent directors or that independent directors be involved in the process for nominating directors or in the determination of executive compensation. We currently intend to rely upon the relevant home country exemptions in lieu of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules with respect to the nominating committee or nomination process, the majority independence of our board of directors, the number of independent directors on the audit committee and the involvement of independent directors in the determination of executive compensation. In addition, although NASDAQ rules require, in certain circumstances, shareholder approval with respect to the issuance of ordinary shares representing more than 20% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares, we intend to follow home country corporate governance practices with respect to this requirement and certain other dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). Following our home country governance practices as opposed to the requirements that would otherwise apply to a U.S. company listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market may provide less protection than is accorded to investors under the Listing Rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market applicable to domestic issuers. As an FPI, we are also be exempt from certain rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, including those rules and regulations under the Exchange Act related to the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required under the Exchange Act to file annual, quarterly and current reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as domestic companies. If we do not hold an annual meeting of shareholders until after the consummation of our initial business combination shareholders will not be afforded an opportunity to elect directors and to discuss company affairs with management until such time. Unless otherwise required by law, the NASDAQ Capital Market or we decide for other business reasons, we do not currently intend to hold an annual meeting of shareholders until after we consummate our initial business combination. If our shareholders want us to hold a meeting prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, they may do so by members holding not less than 30% of voting rights in respect of the matter for which the meeting is requested making a request in writing to the directors in accordance with Section 82 of the Companies Act. Under British Virgin Islands law, we may not increase the required percentage to call a meeting above 30%. Until we hold an annual meeting of shareholders, public shareholders may not be afforded the opportunity to elect directors and to discuss company affairs with management. 22 The grant of registration rights to our initial shareholder and warrant holders may make it more difficult to complete our initial business combination, and the future exercise of such rights may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Pursuant to an agreement entered into concurrently with our initial public offering, our initial shareholder, the holders of the investor warrants and the holders of the underwriter warrants and their respective permitted transferees, may demand that we register the founder shares, investor warrants, underwriter warrants and the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of such warrants, as well as warrants that may be issued upon conversion of working capital loans. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make our initial business combination more costly or difficult to conclude. This is because the shareholders of the target business may increase the equity stake they seek in the combined entity or ask for more cash consideration to offset the negative impact on the market price of our ordinary shares that is expected when the securities owned by our initial shareholder and warrant holders or their permitted transferees are registered. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, it may be difficult for us to complete our initial business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public shareholders may receive only $10.15 per share) on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies and other entities, domestic and international, competing for the types of businesses we intend to acquire. Many of these individuals and entities are well-established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting, directly or indirectly, acquisitions of companies operating in or providing services to various industries. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe there are numerous target businesses we could potentially acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target businesses that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public shareholders may receive only $10.15 per share on our redemption, and our warrants will expire worthless. Our securities may not continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market in the future, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, a national securities exchange. However, we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market in the future. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, we believe the Nasdaq Capital Market will require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the Nasdaq Capital Market delists our securities, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: ● limited availability of market quotations for our securities; ● reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; ● a determination that our ordinary shares are a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our ordinary shares to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our ordinary shares; ● a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and ● a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. We may qualify as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC,” which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder (as defined in the section of this report captioned “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders”) of our ordinary shares or warrants, the U.S. Holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Our actual PFIC status for our initial taxable year ended July 31, 2012 may depend on whether we qualify for the PFIC start-up exception (see the section of this prospectus captioned “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules”). Since we did not complete our initial business combination by July 31, 2012, we are deemed to be a PFIC for such taxable year unless we qualify for the start-up exception. It is unclear how the start-up exception applies to corporations such as ours that have not earned any gross income since inception, because the start-up exception applies to the first taxable year a corporation has gross income. Nevertheless, assuming our initial taxable year ending July 31, 2012 is treated as our “start-up year” for purposes of this exception, then unless we complete our initial business combination in our taxable year ending July 31, 2013 and are not treated as a PFIC for either of our taxable years ending July 31, 2013 or July 31, 2014, we will be treated as a PFIC since our formation. Our actual PFIC status for any taxable year, however, will not be determinable until after the end of such taxable year. Accordingly, there can be no assurance with respect to our status as a PFIC for any particular taxable year. In addition, we may not provide timely financial information that would be required for U.S. investors to make a potentially favorable “qualified electing fund” election, and such election would be unavailable with respect to our warrants in all cases. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisers regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. For a more detailed explanation of the tax consequences of PFIC classification to U.S. Holders, see the section of this prospectus captioned “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules", of this report. 23 After a business combination, it is likely that a majority of our directors and officers will live outside the United States and all of our assets will be located outside the United States; therefore investors may not be able to enforce federal securities laws or their other legal rights. It is likely that after a business combination, a majority of our directors and officers will reside outside of the United States and a majority of our assets will be located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult, or in some cases not possible, for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon all of our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties on our directors and officers under United States laws. We may re-incorporate in another jurisdiction in connection with a business combination, and the laws of such jurisdiction will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. In connection with our initial business combination, we may relocate the home jurisdiction of our business from the British Virgin Islands to another jurisdiction. If we determine to do this, the laws of such jurisdiction would likely govern all of our material agreements. We cannot assure you that the system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction would be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Any such reincorporation and the international nature of our business will likely subject us to foreign regulation. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under British Virgin Islands law. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against our directors or officers. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Act and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under British Virgin Islands law are to a large extent governed by the Companies Act and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The common law of the British Virgin Islands is derived from English common law, and while the decisions of the English courts are of persuasive authority, they are not binding on a court in the British Virgin Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law may not be as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the British Virgin Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, while statutory provisions do exist in British Virgin Islands law for derivative actions to be brought in certain circumstances, shareholders in British Virgin Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The circumstances in which any such action may be brought, and the procedures and defenses that may be available in respect to any such action, may result in the rights of shareholders of a British Virgin Islands company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Accordingly, shareholders may have fewer alternatives available to them if they believe that corporate wrongdoing has occurred. The British Virgin Islands courts are also unlikely: ● to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; or ● to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. 24 There is no statutory recognition in the British Virgin Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the British Virgin Islands will in certain circumstances recognize such a foreign judgment and treat it as a cause of action in itself which may be sued upon as a debt at common law so that no retrial of the issues would be necessary provided that: ● the U.S. court issuing the judgment had jurisdiction in the matter and the company either submitted to such jurisdiction or was resident or carrying on business within such jurisdiction and was duly served with process; ● the U.S. judgment is final and for a liquidated sum; ● the judgment given by the U.S. court was not in respect of penalties, taxes, fines or similar fiscal or revenue obligations of the company; ● in obtaining the judgment there was no fraud on the part of the person in whose favor judgment was given or on the part of the court; ● recognition or enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to public policy in the British Virgin Islands; and ● the proceedings pursuant to which the judgment was obtained were not contrary to natural justice. In appropriate circumstances, a British Virgin Islands Court may give effect in the British Virgin Islands to other kinds of final foreign judgments such as declaratory orders, orders for performance of contracts and injunctions. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Our memorandum and articles of association permit the board of directors to create additional classes of securities, including shares with rights, preferences, designations and limitations as they determine which may have an anti-takeover effect. Our memorandum and articles of association permits the board of directors to designate rights, preferences, designations and limitations attaching to the preferred shares as they determine in their discretion, without shareholder approval with respect to the terms or the issuance. If issued, the rights, preferences, designations and limitations of the preferred shares would be set by the board of directors and could operate to the disadvantage of the outstanding ordinary shares. Such terms could include, among others, preferences as to dividends and distributions on liquidation, or could be used to prevent possible corporate takeovers. We may issue some or all of such preferred shares in connection with our initial business combination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any such issuance should not affect the redemption or liquidation rights of our ordinary shareholders. Risks Associated with Acquiring and Operating a Business in a Member or Associated Member Country of MERCOSUR If we effect our initial business combination with a company located in any member or associated member of the MERCOSUR countries, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. Effecting an initial business combination with a company located in any member or associated member of the MERCOSUR countries would subject us to a number of additional risks involved with operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, including but not limited to any of the following: ● rules and regulations regarding currency redemption; ● complex corporate withholding taxes on individuals; ● laws governing the manner in which future business combinations may be effected; ● exchange listing and/or delisting requirements; 25 ● tariffs and trade barriers; ● regulations related to customs and import/export matters; ● longer payment cycles; ● tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; ● currency fluctuations and exchange controls; ● rates of inflation; ● challenges in collecting accounts receivable; ● cultural and language differences; ● employment regulations; ● crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; and ● deterioration of political relations with the United States. We may not be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. Inflation and government measures to curb inflation may adversely affect the economies in the member and associated countries of MERCOSUR which may affect our business and results of operations. Many of the MERCOSUR or associated countries in which we anticipate having our business operations have experienced, or are currently experiencing, high rates of inflation. Although inflation rates in many of these countries have been relatively low in the recent past, we cannot assure you that this trend will continue. The measures taken by the governments of these countries to control inflation have often included maintaining a tight monetary policy with high interest rates, thereby restricting the availability of credit and slowing economic growth. Inflation, measures to combat inflation and public speculation about possible additional actions may contribute materially to economic uncertainty in many of these countries. Periods of higher inflation may also slow the growth rate of local economies that could negatively impact our potential business. Exchange rate fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in member or associated member countries of MERCOSUR could negatively impact our business. If we enter into a business combination in a member or associated member country of MERCOSUR, we may become exposed to exchange rate risk in relation to the United States dollar. In such an event, substantially all of our potential income is expected to be denominated in the local currencies of the countries in which we operate while we anticipate that our capital expenditures to be largely denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, any decrease in the value of the local currencies in which we operate may give rise to an increase in the potential costs of our doing business in such countries which may negatively impact our operations. Certain member or associated member countries of MERCOSUR have imposed restrictions on the transfer of funds outside of their countries in the past and may do so in the future. The two largest member countries of MERCOSUR, Brazil and Argentina, by way of example, impose restrictions on the transfer of funds in certain instances. The Central Bank of Argentina, on October 28, 2011, issued new regulations concerning repatriation of direct investments of foreign investors that imposes a mandatory settlement of funds in the Argentine Exchange Market as a condition precedent to such repatriation. Direct investment is deemed the ownership of 10% or more of the capital stock or votes of a local company or in real estate investment. Before the regulation, the only requirement for the repatriation of direct investments was evidencing that the investment had been made no less than 365 days in advance. As a result of the regulation, foreign investors will be subject to certain exchange control limitations at the moment of the repatriation of their investments (i.e. sale of shares or real property, capital reduction and return of irrevocable contributions). Similarly, Brazilian law provides that whenever there is a serious imbalance in Brazil’s balance of payments or reasons to foresee a serious imbalance, the Brazilian government may impose temporary restrictions on the remittance to foreign investors of the proceeds of their investments in Brazil. As a result, if we consummate an initial business combination with a business in a member or associate member country of MERCOSUR, we cannot assure you that the repatriation of your investment from our operation of such business will not be restricted in the future. 26 Because of the costs and difficulties inherent in managing cross-border business operations, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. Managing a business, operations, personnel or assets in another country is challenging and costly. Any management that we may have (whether based abroad or in the U.S.) may be inexperienced in cross-border business practices and unaware of significant differences in accounting rules, legal regimes and labor practices. Even with a seasoned and experienced management team, the costs and difficulties inherent in managing cross-border business operations, personnel and assets can be significant (and much higher than in a purely domestic business) and may negatively impact our financial and operational performance. If social unrest, acts of terrorism, regime changes, changes in laws and regulations, political upheaval, or policy changes or enactments occur in a country in which we may operate after we effect our initial business combination, it may result in a negative impact on our business. Political events in another country may significantly affect our business, assets or operations. Social unrest, acts of terrorism, regime changes, changes in laws and regulations, political upheaval, and policy changes or enactments could negatively impact our business in a particular country. Many countries have difficult and unpredictable legal systems and underdeveloped laws and regulations that are unclear and subject to corruption and inexperience, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to seek and enforce legal protections, including with respect to intellectual property and other property rights, or to defend ourselves with regard to legal actions taken against us in a given country, may be difficult or impossible, which could adversely impact our operations, assets or financial condition. Rules and regulations in many countries are often ambiguous or open to differing interpretation by responsible individuals and agencies at the municipal, state, regional and federal levels. The attitudes and actions of such individuals and agencies are often difficult to predict and inconsistent. Delay with respect to the enforcement of particular rules and regulations, including those relating to customs, tax, environmental and labor, could cause serious disruption to operations abroad and negatively impact our results. If relations between the United States and foreign governments deteriorate, it could cause potential target businesses or their goods and services to become less attractive. The relationship between the United States and foreign governments could be subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. For instance, the United States may announce its intention to impose quotas on certain imports. Such import quotas may adversely affect political relations between the two countries and result in retaliatory countermeasures by the foreign government in industries that may affect our ultimate target business. Changes in political conditions in foreign countries and changes in the state of U.S. relations with such countries are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or cause potential target businesses or their goods and services to become less attractive. Because we are not limited to any specific industry, there is no basis to evaluate the possible extent of any impact on our ultimate operations if relations are strained between the United States and a foreign country in which we acquire a target business or move our principal manufacturing or service operations. If any dividend is declared in the future and paid in a foreign currency, you may be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. If you are a U.S. holder of our ordinary shares, you will be taxed on the U.S. dollar value of your dividends, if any, at the time you receive them, even if you actually receive a smaller amount of U.S. dollars when the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Specifically, if a dividend is declared and paid in a foreign currency, and the amount of the dividend distribution that you must include in your income as a U.S. holder will be the U.S. dollar value of the payments made in the foreign currency, determined at the spot rate of the foreign currency to the U.S. dollar on the date the dividend distribution is includible in your income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Thus, if the value of the foreign currency decreases before you actually convert the currency into U.S. dollars, you will be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. 27 If our management following our initial business combination is unfamiliar with United States securities laws, they may have to expend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws which could lead to various regulatory issues. Following our initial business combination, our management will likely resign from their positions as officers of the company and the management of the target business at the time of the business combination will remain in place. Management of the target business may not be familiar with United States securities laws. If new management is unfamiliar with our laws, they may have to expend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. After our initial business combination, substantially all of our assets may be located in a foreign country and substantially all of our revenue will be derived from our operations in such country. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects will be subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal policies, developments and conditions in the country in which we operate. Governments throughout the MERCOSUR and associated countries have exercised, and continue to exercise, significant influence over the economies of their respective countries. Accordingly, the governmental actions, political developments, regulatory and legal changes or administrative practices in such countries concerning the economy could have a significant impact on us. We cannot assure you that changes in the governmental policies of the member and associated countries of MERCOSUR will not adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. The economy in the MERCOSUR and associated countries differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects. Economic growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy and such growth may not be sustained in the future. If in the future, the economy of any such country experiences a downturn or grows at a slower rate than expected, there may be less demand for spending in certain industries. A decrease in demand for spending in certain industries could materially and adversely affect our ability to find an attractive target business with which to consummate our initial business combination and if we effect our initial business combination, the ability of that target business to become profitable. Currency policies may cause a target business’ ability to succeed in the international markets to be diminished. In the event we acquire a non-U.S. target, all revenues and income would likely be received in a foreign currency, and the dollar equivalent of our net assets and distributions, if any, could be adversely affected by reductions in the value of the local currency. The value of the currencies in our target regions fluctuate and are affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. Any change in the relative value of such currency against our reporting currency may affect the attractiveness of any target business or, following consummation of our initial business combination, our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, if a currency appreciates in value against the dollar prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, the cost of a target business as measured in dollars will increase, which may make it less likely that we are able to consummate such transaction. Because foreign law could govern almost all of our material agreements, we may not be able to enforce our rights within such jurisdiction or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Foreign law could govern almost all of our material agreements after the consummation of our initial business combination. The target business may not be able to enforce any of its material agreements or ensure that remedies will be available outside of such foreign jurisdiction’s legal system. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws and contracts in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The judiciaries in the MERCOSUR and associated member countries are relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. As a result, the inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business and business opportunities. 