Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe caution readers that our business activities involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently expected by us. If any of such risks and uncertainties were to actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The most significant of those risks are:•Slowdowns in the retail or foodservice industries could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Our operations and financial performance are directly impacted by changes in the retail and foodservice industries, which in turn are impacted by changes in the global economy. The retail and foodservice industries are directly affected by general economic factors including recession, inflation, deflation, new home sales and housing starts, levels of disposable income, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, unemployment trends, fuel and energy costs, material input costs, foreign currency translation, labor cost inflation, interest rates, the impact of natural disasters, political and social unrest and terrorism, and other matters that influence consumer spending. Any significant downturn in the global economy may significantly lower consumer discretionary spending, which may in turn lower the demand for our products, particularly in our consumer segment. In particular, demand for our consumer products is correlated to the strength of the housing industry because consumers are more likely to purchase tabletop, food preparation, and pantry products in connection with purchasing a new home. When home sales and housing starts are weak, demand for our products can be adversely affected. Expenditures in the foodservice industry are also affected by discretionary spending levels and may decline during a general economic downturn. Hotels, airlines, and restaurants are less likely to invest in new flatware, dinnerware, barware, hollowware, and banquetware when there is a slowdown in their industry. Currently, uncertainty about global economic conditions may cause consumers of our products to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news, or declines in income or asset values. These factors could have adverse effects on the demand for our products and on our operating results and financial condition. Substantial deterioration in general economic conditions would likely exacerbate these adverse effects and could result in a wide-ranging and prolonged impact on general business conditions, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.•Our operations and financial performance are directly impacted by changes in the global economy. An economic decline in future reporting periods could negatively affect our business and results of operations. The volatility of the current economic climate makes it difficult for us to predict our results of operations. In periods of economic uncertainty, our customers may face financial difficulties, including the unavailability of or reduction in commercial credit, or both, that may result in decreased sales by our company. Certain of our customers may cease operations or seek bankruptcy protection, which would reduce our cash flows and adversely impact our results of operations. Our customers that are financially viable and that do not experience economic distress may nevertheless elect to reduce the volume of orders for our products or close facilities in an effort to remain financially 10Table of Contentsstable or as a result of the unavailability of commercial credit, which would negatively affect our results of operations. We may also have difficulty accessing the global credit markets due to the tightening of commercial credit availability and the financial difficulties of our customers, which would result in decreased ability to fund capital-intensive strategic projects. In addition, we may experience challenges in forecasting revenues and operating results due to these global economic conditions. The difficulty in forecasting revenues and operating results may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock.•The agreements governing our indebtedness require us to comply with financial maintenance covenants. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, our business, results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected.Our Term Loan agreement required us to comply with financial covenants, including a consolidated leverage ratio requirement. We believe we would not be in compliance with the consolidated leverage ratio requirement as of March 31, 2014, and, as a result, we would be in violation under this covenant. The Term Loan agreement allows us to “cure” such a covenant violation if we issue equity and contribute cash to the Borrowers (a “Cure Contribution”) by the date that is ten business days after the date on which financial statements are required to be delivered with respect to such fiscal quarter, and upon such cure, the financial covenants shall be recalculated giving effect, on a pro forma basis, to the Cure Contribution.On March 31, 2014, Monomoy Capital Partners, L.P., Monomoy Capital Partners II, L.P. and their affiliated funds (the “Monomoy Funds”) provided us with an equity commitment letter pursuant to which the Monomoy Funds committed to offer to purchase securities (which may include preferred stock, convertible preferred stock, debt or convertible debt) from us having an aggregate purchase price in an amount sufficient to fund a Cure Contribution, but no more than $12.0 million in the aggregate, which amount will be reduced by the amount of any other equity raised to fund a Cure Contribution. We were in compliance with all covenants in the Term Loan agreement as of December 31, 2013. Had we not received this equity commitment letter to allow us to “cure” our prospective covenant violation, the report from our independent registered public accounting firm on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013, would have contained an explanatory paragraph with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern.If we are not able to cure the violation under the Term Loan agreement by obtaining an amendment to or waiver under the Term Loan agreement, or by obtaining other sources of financing or issuing securities to the Monomoy Funds to fund a Cure Contribution, it will result in an uncured event under the Term Loan agreement. If this event under the Term Loan agreement is not cured or waived, the indebtedness under the Term Loan agreement could be declared immediately due and payable and at that point we could be precluded from borrowing under our ABL Facility, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain an amendment to or waiver under the Term Loan Agreement, obtain other sources of financing or successfully negotiate the terms of the purchase of equity securities by the Monomoy Funds. Even if we are able to obtain an amendment or waiver, in connection with negotiating an amendment or waiver we may be required to agree to other changes in the Term Loan agreement, including increased interest rates or premiums, more restrictive covenants and/or pay a fee for such amendment or waiver. In general, if we are unable to comply with the financial covenants in the Term Loan agreement or ABL agreement in the future and we are unable to obtain waivers, we may need to obtain additional sources of liquidity; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional sources of liquidity and, if we can obtain financing, that we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us.•We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may limit our operating flexibility and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $273.3 million of indebtedness, consisting of the $248.8 million term loan, $15.6 million and $7.8 million of borrowings under our U.S. and U.K. Asset-Based Revolving Credit Facilities, respectively, and $1.1 million of other indebtedness. Our U.S. ABL currently provides up to $55.0 million of borrowing capacity, while our U.K. facility provides up to £7.0 million. We may request an increase in the commitments under our ABL Facility to up to an additional $20.0 million in the aggregate, at the discretion of 11Table of Contentsour lenders, subject to certain “borrowing base” limitations. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to our investors, including, but not limited to:•increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to respond to, general adverse economic and industry conditions;•requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, joint ventures, or other general corporate purposes;•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the competitive environment, and the industry in which we operate;•placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged; and•limiting our ability to borrow additional funds and increasing the cost of any such borrowing.An increase in interest rates would adversely affect our profitability. To the extent that our access to credit is restricted because of our own performance or conditions in the capital markets generally, our financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Our level of indebtedness may make it difficult to service our debt and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing, use operating cash flow in other areas of our business, or otherwise adversely affect our operations.•Oneida and Anchor Hocking have been part of the same company for a limited time and their combined operating history is limited and may not be indicative of our future performance.Although Oneida and Anchor Hocking have been in existence for many years, we have had a limited reporting history incorporating both businesses. Investment funds affiliated with Monomoy acquired Anchor Hocking in April 2007 and Oneida in November 2011 and integrated both companies under Former EveryWare in March 2012. Our combined operating history is limited and may not be indicative of our future performance.•If we are unable to successfully execute any material part of our growth strategy, our future growth and ability to make profitable investments in our business would be harmed.Our success depends on our ability to expand our business while maintaining profitability. We may not be able to sustain our growth or achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in future periods. Our future growth and profitability will depend upon a number of factors, including, without limitation:•the level of competition in the consumer products industry;•our ability to offer new products and to extend existing brands and products into new markets, including international markets;•our ability to identify, acquire, and integrate strategic acquisitions;•our ability to remain competitive in pricing;•our ability to maintain efficient, timely, and cost-effective production and delivery of products;•the efficiency and effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts in building product and brand awareness and cross-marketing our brands;•our ability to identify and respond successfully to emerging trends in the consumer products industry;•the level of consumer acceptance of our products; and12Table of Contents•general economic conditions and consumer confidence. We may not be successful in executing our growth strategy, and even if we achieve our targeted growth, we may not be able to sustain profitability. Failure to successfully execute any material part of our growth strategy would significantly impair our future growth and our ability to make profitable investments in our business. •Our ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees, managers, and key executives is critical to our success.Our success depends on our ability to attract, develop, and retain talented employees, including executives and other key managers. We have recently experienced turnover in several senior management positions, including our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of certain key officers and employees, or the failure to attract and develop talented new executives and managers, could have an adverse effect on our business. Our industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting among competitors for personnel with successful track records. Our ability to attract and retain employees with the requisite experience and skills depends on several factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to offer competitive wages, benefits, and professional growth opportunities. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution.•Our foodservice segment is sensitive to safety concerns, including acts of terrorism, unstable political conditions, or public health catastrophes, which could adversely affect our customers’ businesses and could reduce demand for our products. Within the foodservice industry, the travel and hospitality businesses are sensitive to safety concerns, and these businesses may decline after acts of terrorism, during periods of political instability in which travelers become concerned about safety issues, or when travel might involve health-related risks. For example, sales to the airline industry greatly decreased in response to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, and the security measures implemented in response to such attacks, including removing metal flatware and knives from aboard commercial flights. Acts of terrorism, unstable political conditions, or a public health catastrophe could negatively affect our customers in the foodservice segment and reduce their purchases from us, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.•If our products do not appeal to a broad range of consumers, our sales and our results of operations would be harmed.Our success depends on our products’ appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. If our current products do not meet consumer demands, our sales will decline. In addition, our growth depends upon our ability to develop new products and product improvements, which involve numerous risks. As we grow, our reliance on new products may increase. We may not be able to accurately identify consumer preferences, translate our knowledge into consumer-accepted products, or successfully integrate new products with our existing product platform or operations. We may also experience increased expenses incurred in connection with product development or marketing and advertising that are not subsequently supported by a sufficient level of sales, which would negatively affect our results of operations. Unsuccessful product launches could also result in increased inventory write-downs. We may not be able to successfully develop new products in the future, and our newly developed products may not contribute favorably to its results of operations. Furthermore, product development may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could cause sales of our existing products to suffer.•We are subject to certain risks associated with our foreign operations which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We conduct business outside of the United States in Europe, Latin America, the Caribbean, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including:13Table of Contents•political, social, and economic instability in countries where we operate, which may have an adverse effect on both our operations in those countries and in other parts of the world in which we operate;•war, civil, and political unrest and acts of terrorism;•the taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation;•tax rates in certain foreign countries, which may exceed those in the U.S.;•changes in government policies, laws, and regulations;•delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses, tariffs, and other barriers and restrictions;•ineffective intellectual property protection;•hyperinflation in certain countries;•disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws;•the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; and•complications in complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, which may differ from or conflict with U.S. law.As we continue to expand our business globally, it is increasingly exposed to these risks. Our success will be dependent, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with foreign operations. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, financial condition, or results of operations as a whole.•Requirements associated with being a public company will increase our costs significantly, as well as divert significant resources and management attention.We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and the other rules and regulations of the SEC and the rules and regulation of The NASDAQ Stock Market. We have made, and will continue to make, changes in our corporate governance, corporate internal controls, internal audit, disclosure controls, and procedures and financial reporting and accounting systems to manage our growth and our obligations as a public company. However, the expenses that will be required in order to adequately manage our obligations as a public company could be material. Compliance with the various reporting and other requirements applicable to public companies will also require considerable time and attention of management. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur, the timing of such costs, or the degree of impact that our management’s attention to these matters will have on our business. In addition, the changes we make may not be sufficient to allow us to satisfy our obligations as a public company on a timely basis. In addition, being a public company could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees, or as executive officers. Many of our competitors are not subject to these requirements, because they do not have securities that are publicly traded on a U.S. securities exchange or other securities exchanges. As a result, these competitors are not subject to the risks identified above. In addition, the public disclosures that we are required to provide pursuant to the SEC’s rules and regulations may furnish our competitors with greater competitive information regarding our operations and financial results than we are able to obtain regarding their operations and financial results, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage.14Table of Contents•We may incur fines or penalties, damage to our reputation or other adverse consequences if our employees, agents or business partners violate, or are alleged to have violated, anti-bribery, competition, or other laws.Our internal controls may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by its employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. or other laws, including world-wide anti-bribery, competition, trade sanctions and regulations, and other related laws. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal monetary and non-monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries, and could damage our reputation. Even the allegation or appearance of our employees, agents, or business partners acting improperly or illegally could damage our reputation and result in significant expenditures in investigating and responding to such actions.•We may encounter difficulties arising from acquisitions.We are continually evaluating acquisitions and strategic investments that are significant to our business both in the U.S. and internationally. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, or complete such acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic investments on acceptable terms and conditions, and these acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic investments may not be successfully integrated into our operations. The costs of unsuccessful acquisition, joint venture, and strategic investment efforts may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or prospects. In addition, any future acquisitions that we might make are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including:•the inability to integrate effectively the operations, products, technologies, personnel and information systems of the acquired companies (some of which may be in different geographic regions, languages, customers and subject to various governmental regulations);•the potential disruption of existing business and diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations;•the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures, and policies or correct deficient standards, controls, procedures and policies, including internal controls and procedures sufficient to satisfy the regulatory requirements applicable to a public company in the United States;•the incurrence of liabilities or other costs that were not anticipated at the time of the acquisitions;•the incurrence of additional debt to finance the acquisitions;•the issuance of additional equity securities to finance the acquisitions, which could result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders; and•the potential impairment of relationships with customers.In addition, the integration and consolidation of newly acquired companies may not achieve any of the anticipated economies of scale, cost savings, or operating synergies. The resources required to successfully integrate newly acquired companies and implement our business plan, may also reduce our operating cash flow.•We may not realize our anticipated synergies and cost savings with respect to our integration and restructuring initiatives.We initiated a plan in 2013 to integrate the Oneida business. This integration may not be achieved in a timely and efficient manner, and we may not fully realize the anticipated cost savings and synergies for a variety of reasons. Some of the risks related to this integration include failure to obtain expected cost savings due to cost overruns, failure to consolidate our manufacturing operations and employment and other law, rules, regulations or other limitations that could have an impact on timing, amounts or costs of achieving expected synergies. In addition, we have from time to time implemented, and are currently implementing, restructuring and other cost reduction plans designed to reduce our manufacturing overhead and our operating expenses, which include the closing of our Canadian offices and warehouse, restructuring activities relating to our Metalrax acquisition, and our 15Table of Contentsdistribution center consolidation. These restructuring efforts resulted or may result in significant restructuring charges that have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our results of operations for the periods in which such charges occur. Additionally, actual costs related to such restructuring plans have in the past, and may in the future, exceed the amounts that we previously estimated, leading to additional charges as actual costs are incurred.•Product liability claims or product recalls could adversely affect our results of operations or harm our reputation or the value of our brands.The marketing of our products involves an inherent risk of product liability claims or recalls or other regulatory or enforcement actions initiated by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, by other regulatory authorities, or through private causes of action. Any defects in products that we market could harm our credibility, adversely affect our relationship with our customers, and decrease market acceptance of our products and the strength of our brand names. We could also be required to recall potentially defective products, which could result in further adverse publicity and significant expenses. We are subject to product liability litigation in the ordinary course of business, and failures of our products in the future may subject us to additional product liability claims and associated litigation. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or could be excluded under the terms of our insurance policy and could materially damage our business and our financial condition.•If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, or are accused of intellectual property infringement, our ability to compete would be negatively impacted.Our business depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, trade dress and trade secret laws, licenses, and confidentiality and other agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. However, this protection may not be sufficient. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged or invalidated, an infringement suit by us against a third party may not be successful and third parties could adopt trademarks similar to ours. In the past, other companies have infringed upon our trademarks, copied our patented and copyrighted products, and otherwise violated our intellectual property. The cost associated with actively protecting our intellectual property is oftentimes very high in relation to the net sales of a particular product is impacted. Furthermore, we operate in jurisdictions that make it difficult to protect our intellectual property. In addition, we have been accused of infringing or violating the intellectual property rights of third parties in the past and may be accused again. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation. Failure to protect our intellectual property or prevail in any intellectual property litigation could materially and adversely affect our competitive position or otherwise harm our business.•Unexpected equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns, which could adversely affect our results of operations.Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical processing equipment, such as furnaces, forming machines, stamping presses, spinning machines, and lehrs. This equipment may incur downtime as a result of unanticipated failures, accidents, natural disasters, or other force majeure events. We may in the future experience facility shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such failures or events. Unexpected interruptions in our production capabilities would adversely affect our productivity and results of operations for the affected period. We also may face shutdowns if we are unable to obtain enough energy during the peak demand periods.•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.We have customers in Europe, Latin America, the Caribbean, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia, which accounted for approximately 11% of our revenues in 2013. Gross sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 18% of our revenues in 2013. We have operations in Canada, the United Kingdom, China, and Mexico, which accounted for approximately 21% of our operating expenses in 2013. As a result, we generate a significant portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we are unable to match revenues received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in any such currency could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of our non-U.S. subsidiaries affect our results as reported in U.S. dollars. 16Table of ContentsMajor fluctuations in the value of the pound, euro, Canadian dollar, and peso relative to the U.S. dollar could also reduce the cost competitiveness of our products as compared to foreign competition. For example, if the U.S. dollar appreciates against the pound, euro, Canadian dollar, and peso, the purchasing power of those currencies effectively would be reduced compared to the U.S. dollar, making our U.S.-manufactured products more expensive in the United Kingdom, Europe, Canada, and Mexico, respectively, compared to the products of local competitors, and making products manufactured by our foreign competitors in those locations more cost-competitive with our U.S. manufactured products. An appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the pound, euro, Canadian dollar, and peso also would increase the cost of U.S. dollar-denominated purchases for our operations in the United Kingdom, Europe, Canada, and Mexico, respectively, including raw materials. We would be forced to deduct these cost increases from our results of operations or attempt to pass them along to consumers. These fluctuations could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.•Fluctuations in buying decisions of our customers and changing policies and requests of our customers could harm our business.Our consumer segment customers include mass merchants, discount retailers, specialty stores, department stores, grocery stores, and other retailers; our foodservice segment customers include equipment and supply dealers, the hotel and gaming industry, broadline distributors and chain restaurants, airlines, and cruise lines; and our specialty segment customers include candle and floral wholesalers, direct sellers, industrial lighting manufacturers and distillers, and distributors of premium spirits. Unanticipated changes in purchasing and other practices by our customers, including a customer’s pricing and payment terms, could adversely affect our profitability. Our customers have requested, and may continue to request, increased service and other accommodations, including design services, rebates, volume discounts, payment term discounts, and packaging customization. We may face substantially increased expenses to meet these requests, which would reduce our margins. For example, in the consumer segment, retailers may engage in inventory destocking (which may also affect our specialty segment), impose limitations on shelf space, or use private label brands, and these actions may negatively affect the sales or profitability of our products. As a result of the desire of retailers to more closely manage inventory levels, there is a growing trend among retailers to make purchases on a “just-in-time” basis. This requires us to shorten our lead time for production in certain cases and more closely anticipate demand, which could in the future require us to carry additional inventories. Our success and growth is also dependent on our evaluation of consumer preferences and changing trends. Many of our customers are significantly larger than we are and have greater financial and other resources and also purchase goods directly from vendors in Asia and elsewhere. Decisions by large customers to increase their purchases directly from overseas vendors could have a material adverse effect on us. Significant changes in or financial difficulties of our customers, including consolidations of ownership, restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations, or other events, could result in fewer stores selling our products, fewer distributors and foodservice customers ordering our products, an increase in the risk of extending credit to these customers or limitations on our ability to collect amounts due from these customers. Purchases by our customers are generally made using individual purchase orders. As a result, these customers may cancel their orders, change purchase quantities from forecast volumes, delay purchases for a number of reasons beyond our control, or change other terms of their business relationship with us. Significant or numerous cancellations, reductions, delays in purchases, or changes in business practices by customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.In 2013, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates (including Sam’s Club and Asda Superstore) accounted for approximately 15% of our revenues. A material reduction in purchases by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. could have a significant adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, pressures by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. that would cause us to materially reduce the price of our products could result in reductions of our operating margin.•We face intense competition and competitive pressures, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our business is highly competitive. We compete with many other suppliers, some of which are larger than we are, have greater financial and other resources, employ brands that are more established, have greater consumer 17Table of Contentsrecognition, or are more favorably perceived by consumers or retailers than our brands. Some of our competitors have invested and continue to invest heavily to achieve increased production efficiencies. Competitors may have incorporated more advanced technology in their manufacturing processes, including more advanced automation techniques. Our labor and energy costs also may be higher than those of some foreign producers of glass tableware. We may not be successful in managing our labor and energy costs, increasing output at our manufacturing facilities, or gaining operating efficiencies that may be necessary to remain competitive. In addition, our products may be subject to competition from low-cost imports that intensify the price competition faced in various markets. Some of our competitors are privately owned and have more latitude to operate than we do as a public company. If we do not successfully compete with these competitors on factors such as new product development, innovation, brand, delivery, customer service, price, and quality, our customers may consider changing manufacturers. Competitive pressures from our competitors could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.•We source some of our products from third-party suppliers located in Asia, Europe, and Mexico, which reduces our control over the manufacturing process and may cause variations in quality or delays in our ability to fill orders.We source all of our metal flatware and crystal stemware and much of our dinnerware from third party suppliers located in Asia, Europe, and Mexico. We depend on these suppliers to deliver products that are free from defects, comply with our specifications, meet health, safety and delivery requirements, and are competitive in cost. If our suppliers deliver products that are defective or that otherwise do not meet our specifications, our return rates may increase, and the reputation of our products and brands may suffer. In addition, if our suppliers do not meet our delivery requirements or cease doing business with us for any reason, we might miss our customers’ delivery deadlines, which could in turn cause our customers to cancel or reduce orders, refuse to accept deliveries, or demand reduced prices. The overseas sourcing of product subjects us to the numerous risks of doing business abroad, including but not limited to, rapid changes in economic or political conditions, civil unrest, political instability, war, terrorist attacks, international health epidemics, work stoppages or labor disputes, currency fluctuations, increasing export duties, trade sanctions and tariffs, and variations in product quality. We may also experience temporary shortages due to disruptions in supply caused by weather or transportation delays. Even if acceptable alternative suppliers are found, the process of locating and securing such alternatives is likely to disrupt our business, and we may not be able to secure alternative suppliers on acceptable terms that provide the same quality product or comply with all applicable laws. Any of these events would cause our business, results of operations, and financial condition to suffer.•If we or our suppliers are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, it could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Sand, limestone, and soda ash are the principal materials we use in the manufacture of our glassware and crystal products. Resins, clay, flint, aluminum oxide, glass frit, and colorants are the principal materials we use in the manufacture of its dinnerware products. Stainless steel, nickel, brass, silver, and gold are the principal materials our suppliers use in the manufacture of our flatware and hollowware products. All of these raw materials are purchased in highly competitive, price-sensitive markets, which have historically exhibited price, demand, and supply cyclicality. From time to time, some of these raw materials have been in short supply due to weather or other factors, including disruptions in supply caused by raw material transportation or production delays. We may experience shortages of raw materials in the future. If we experience temporary shortages in raw materials, we or our suppliers may be forced to procure materials from alternative suppliers, and they may not be able to do so on terms as favorable as their current terms or at all. If we or our suppliers are unable to purchase certain raw materials required for operations for a significant period of time, our or their operations would be disrupted, and our results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, material increases in the cost of any of these raw materials on an industry-wide basis would have an adverse effect on our results of operations if we were unable to pass on these increased costs to our customers in a timely manner or at all.•Natural gas, the principal fuel we use to manufacture our glass products, is subject to fluctuating prices that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Natural gas is the primary source of energy in most of our glass production processes, and variability in the price for natural gas has had and will continue to have an impact on our profitability. We do not have long-term contracts 18Table of Contentsfor natural gas and, as a result, our operating results are strongly linked to the cost of natural gas. We have, from time to time, entered into short-term contracts to hedge certain of our energy costs, including natural gas. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we spent approximately $13.2 million and $14.1 million, respectively, on natural gas. Natural gas prices may rise in the future. To the extent that we are not able to offset increases in natural gas prices, such as by passing along the cost to our customers, these increases could adversely impact our margins and results of operations. In addition, potential legislation, regulatory action, and international treaties related to climate change, especially those related to the regulation of greenhouse gases, may result in significant increases in raw material and energy costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recoup any past or future increases in the cost of energy and raw materials.•Transportation disruptions and increased transportation costs could adversely affect our business.We import certain of our products for delivery to our distribution centers, as well as arrange for our customers to import goods to which title has passed overseas or at port of entry. Accordingly, we are subject to risks incidental to such transportation. These risks include, but are not limited to, increases in fuel costs, the availability of ships, increased security restrictions, work stoppages, and carriers’ ability to provide delivery services to meet our shipping needs. We deliver our products to our customers from our distribution centers or make such products available for customer pickup from our distribution centers. Prolonged domestic transportation disruptions, as well as workforce or systems issues related to our distribution centers, could have a negative effect on our ability to deliver goods to our customers.•Our business requires us to maintain a large fixed-cost base that can affect our profitability.The high fixed cost levels involved in operating manufacturing plants encourage high levels of output, even during periods of reduced demand, which can lead to excess inventory levels and exacerbate the pressure on profit margins. In addition, significant portions of our selling, administrative, and general expenses are fixed costs that neither increase nor decrease proportionally with sales. Our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to spread fixed costs over an increasing number of products sold and shipped, and if we reduce our rate of production, the cost per unit increases, negatively impacting our gross margins. Decreased demand or the need to reduce inventories can lower our ability to absorb fixed costs and materially impact our results of operations.•Our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor relations matters.We are potentially subject to work stoppages and other labor disputes because a significant number of production and maintenance employees at our manufacturing facilities are represented by labor unions. These facilities have experienced work stoppages and strikes in the past, and there potentially could be work stoppages and strikes in the future. Any prolonged work stoppage or strike at any one of our principal manufacturing facilities could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We are party to collective bargaining agreements that cover most of our manufacturing employees. Our intent is to negotiate and enter into new collective bargaining agreements with labor unions representing employees at each facility upon expiration of the existing agreements; however, we may be unable to do so without lock-outs, strikes, or work stoppages. We could also experience operating inefficiencies as a result of preparations for disruptions in production, such as increasing production and inventories. Any such disruptions or difficulties could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we could experience increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members upon the execution of new agreements with its labor unions. We may be unable to manage our growth effectively, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.•We may be unable to manage our growth effectively, which would harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition.Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our management team, information systems, labor, manufacturing and distribution capacity and other resources. Our growth also makes it difficult for us to adequately predict the expenditures we will need to make in the future. If we do not make, or are unable to make, the necessary overhead expenditures to accommodate our future growth, we may not be successful in executing our growth strategy, and our results of operations would suffer. In addition, if customer demand exceeds forecasts, we could, 19Table of Contentsfrom time to time, have an inadequate supply of products to meet customer demands. Alternatively, if customer demand is less than forecasts, we could have excess supply.•We rely on increasingly complex information systems for management of our manufacturing, distribution, sales, accounting and other functions. If our information systems fail to perform these functions adequately, or if we experience an interruption in our operations, our business and results of operations could suffer.All of our major operations, including manufacturing, distribution, sales and accounting, are dependent upon complex information systems. Our information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: earthquake, fire, flood, hurricane and other natural disasters; power loss, computer systems failure, internet and telecommunications or data network failure; and hackers, computer viruses, software bugs or glitches. Any damage or significant disruption in the operation of such systems or the failure of our information systems to perform as expected could disrupt our business or result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages. We have taken significant steps to mitigate the potential impact of each of these risks, but these procedures may not be completely successful.•Our products are subject to various health and safety requirements and may be subject to new health and safety requirements in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations.Our products are subject to certain legal requirements relating to health and safety. These legal requirements frequently change and vary among jurisdictions. Compliance with these requirements, or the failure to comply with these requirements, may have a material adverse effect on our operations. If any of our products become subject to new regulations, or become specifically regulated by additional governmental or other regulatory entities, the cost of compliance could be material. For example, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (the “CPSC”) regulates many consumer products, including our products sold to our consumer customers. New regulations or policies by the CPSC could require us to change our manufacturing processes, which could materially raise our manufacturing costs. In addition, new regulations could reduce sales of our consumer products. Furthermore, a significant order or judgment against us by governmental or regulatory authority relating to health or safety matters, or the imposition of a significant fine relating to such matters, or a voluntary or mandatory recall of regulated products may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.•Regulation related to environmental and health and safety matters could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.We must comply with extensive laws, rules and regulations in the United States and in each of the countries in which we engage in business regarding environmental matters, such as air, soil, and water quality, waste disposal, and climate change. We must also comply with extensive laws, rules, and regulations regarding safety, health, and corporate responsibility matters. These legal requirements frequently change and vary among jurisdictions. These laws and regulations provide, under certain circumstances, a basis for the remediation of contamination, as well as personal injury and property damage claims. Compliance with these requirements, or the failure to comply with these requirements, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Occupational Safety & Health Administration (“OSHA”). We have incurred fines and penalties from time to time as a result of failures to comply with OSHA standards, none of which have been material individually or in aggregate to date. As a result, we will be subject to more frequent OSHA inspections in the future. Potential additional fines and penalties incurred in connection with future inspections could have a negative impact on our results of operations.We have incurred, and expect to incur, costs to comply with environmental legal requirements, including requirements limiting greenhouse gas emissions, and these costs could increase in the future. For example the U.S. EPA issued a finding in 2009 that greenhouse gases contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. The endangerment finding and EPA’s determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act, may lead to regulation of stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions. The failure to comply materially with existing and new laws, rules, and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Many environmental legal requirements provide for substantial fines, orders, and criminal sanctions for violations. In addition, certain environmental laws impose strict liability and, under certain 20Table of Contentscircumstances, joint and several liability on current and prior owners and operators of these sites, as well as persons who sent waste to them, for costs to investigate and remediate contaminated sites. These legal requirements may apply to conditions at properties that we presently or formerly owned or operated, as well as at other properties, for which we may be responsible, including those at which wastes attributable to us were disposed. Historically, we have incurred costs and capital expenditures in complying with these laws and regulations, including at a former ceramics facility in Buffalo, New York, and a silverware manufacturing plant in Sherrill, New York. A significant order or judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license or the imposition of a significant fine may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.•We are subject to laws and regulations governing the internet and e-commerce and may be subject to future laws and regulations governing the Internet and e-commerce, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations.We are subject to laws and regulations governing the internet and e-commerce. These existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, and personal privacy apply to the internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolutions of these issues would harm our business. This could, in turn, diminish the demand for our products on the internet and increase our cost of doing business.•A substantial portion of our operating income is derived from license fees. Any significant or material reduction of these fees or any failure by licensees to adequately promote our brands could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We have entered into license agreements under which we license the ONEIDA® trademark for use by third parties on their products, and a substantial portion of our operating income is derived from license fees under these agreements. License fees from these third parties represented $6.5 million or 1.5% of our consolidated revenues and 52.9% of our consolidated operating income for 2013. We have granted Robinson Home Products, Inc., our largest licensee by revenues, the exclusive right to market ONEIDA® branded flatware, dinnerware, glassware, kitchen tools and accessories and table linens in the consumer sales channels (excluding e-commerce) in the U.S. In 2013, we recognized $6.0 million in license fees from Robinson Home Products, which represented 1.4% of our consolidated revenues and 48.7% of our consolidated operating income for 2013. If we were to lose our license fees from Robinson Home Products due to a change in our relationship with them or in their business, we would seek to terminate our agreement with them and either market the ONEIDA® branded products directly in our Consumer segment or enter into an alternative arrangement with a new licensee, either of which would result in a disruption in royalty payments the significance and duration of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating income and results of operations for the period in which this disruption occurs. Furthermore, if Robinson Home Products fails to adequately promote the ONEIDA® branded products or otherwise fails to maximize the value of the ONEIDA® brand in the market, it could be costly and difficult for us to enforce or terminate the licensing agreement with them, and it could have a material adverse effect on our operating income and results of operation.•Our pension plans are underfunded and, in the future, the underfunding levels of our pension plans and our pension expense could increase materially.Many of our employees participate in, and many of our former employees are entitled to benefits under, funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement welfare plans. All of our U.S. defined benefit pension plans are frozen. Over time, we have experienced periods of declines in interest rates and pension asset values. As a result, our pension plans and our other-postretirement benefit plans are underfunded. Further declines in interest rates or the market value of the securities held by the plans, or certain other changes, could materially increase the underfunded status of our plans in 2014 and beyond and affect the level and timing of required contributions in 2015 and beyond. The current underfunded status of our pension plans will, and a further material increase in the underfunded status of the plans would, significantly increase our required contributions and pension expense, and could impair our ability to achieve or sustain future profitability and could adversely affect our 21Table of Contentsfinancial condition. The unfunded amount of the projected benefit obligation for our global defined benefit pension and post-retirement welfare plans was $13.0 million and $20.5 million at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. We currently estimate that we will be required to make contributions to the global funded defined benefit pension plans of approximately $2.0 million in 2014.•Charges related to employee pension and other-postretirement benefit plans resulting from market risk and headcount realignment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.In connection with our employee pension and other-postretirement benefit plans, we are exposed to market risks associated with changes in the various capital markets. Changes in long-term interest rates affect the discount rate that is used to measure our obligations and related expense. To the extent that we experience headcount changes, we may incur further expenses related to our employee pension and other-postretirement benefit plans that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.•Our ability to recognize the benefit of deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income and the timing of difference reversals.We recognize the expected future tax benefit from deferred tax assets when realization of the tax benefit is considered more likely than not. Otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied against deferred tax assets. Assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant estimates related to expectations of future taxable income and the timing of reversals of temporary differences. To the extent that these factors differ significantly from estimates, our ability to realize the deferred tax assets could be impacted.•We may not be able to timely and effectively implement controls and procedures required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The standards required for a public company under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are significantly more stringent than those that were required of Former EveryWare as a privately-held company. We may not be able to effectively and timely implement controls and procedures that adequately respond to the increased regulatory compliance and reporting requirements that will be applicable to us. If we are not able to implement the additional requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may not be able to assess whether our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, which may subject us to adverse regulatory consequences and could harm investor confidence and the market price of our common stock.•Concentration of ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control.As of December 31, 2013, Monomoy Capital Partners, L.P., MCP Supplemental Fund, L.P., Monomoy Executive Co-Investment Fund, L.P., Monomoy Capital Partners II, L.P. and MCP Supplemental Fund II, L.P. (collectively, the “MCP Funds”) owned approximately 59% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, the MCP Funds have the ability to determine the outcome of corporate actions of the Company requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock.•We are currently a “controlled company,” controlled by the MCP Funds, whose interests in our business may be different from those of other stockholders.With their current stock ownership level, the MCP Funds will be able to control virtually all matters requiring stockholder approval, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and approval of significant corporate transactions, including mergers and sales of substantially all of our assets. Because of the equity ownership of the MCP Funds, we are considered a “controlled company” for purposes of the NASDAQ listing requirements. As such, we are exempt from the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements that our board of directors meet the standard of independence established by those corporate governance requirements and are exempt from the requirements that we have separate compensation and nominating and 22Table of Contentscorporate governance committees made up entirely of directors who meet such independence standards. The NASDAQ independence standards are intended to ensure that directors who meet the independence standards are free of any conflicting interest that could influence their actions as directors. It is possible that the interests of the MCP Funds may in some circumstances conflict with our interests and the interests of our other stockholders.•We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act enacted in April 2012, and for so long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies.” We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years following the completion of our initial public offering or until we achieve total annual gross revenues in excess of $1.0 billion during a fiscal year or become a large accelerated filer as a result of achieving a public float of at least $700 million as of the end of a second fiscal quarter. In addition, we can cease to be an emerging growth company earlier than the normal five-year term if we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the preceding three-year period. The exemptions include not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. If we choose not to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our auditors will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. As a result, investors may become less comfortable with the effectiveness of our internal controls and the risk that material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control go undetected may increase. If we choose to continue to provide reduced disclosures in our periodic reports and proxy statements while we are an emerging growth company, investors would have access to less information and analysis about our executive compensation, which may make it difficult for investors to evaluate our executive compensation practices. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions and provide more limited disclosure. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.•Future sales of our common stock may cause the market price of our securities to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.Upon the closing of the Business Combination, we entered into an amended and restated registration rights agreement with respect to the shares issued prior to our initial public offering (“founder shares”) and shares purchased by Mr. Baldwin in a private placement, shares of our common stock underlying the warrants held by Clinton Magnolia Master Fund, Ltd. (our “Sponsor”), the shares of our common stock that we issued under the Merger Agreement, 1,650,000 shares of common stock purchased by Clinton Spotlight Master Fund, L.P. (“Spotlight”) and the Sponsor immediately prior to the closing of the Business Combination and all shares issued to a holder with respect to the securities referred to above by way of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, acquisition, consolidation, reorganization, share exchange, share reconstruction, amalgamation, contractual control arrangement or similar event, which securities we collectively refer to as “registrable securities.” This registration rights agreement amends and restates entirely the registration rights agreement we entered into in connection with our initial public offering. Under this agreement, we have agreed that the holders of a majority of the registrable securities are entitled to three long form registrations and unlimited short form registrations, known as demand registrations, whereby we are required to file a shelf registration statement with the SEC as soon as practicable after receipt of such demand registration. We have also agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to file a shelf registration statement covering all registrable securities as promptly as practicable following the closing of the Business Combination but in any event no later than the expiration of the Lockup Period. The holders of a majority of the registrable securities will be entitled to unlimited takedowns of the shelf, provided the shelf remains effective. However, we will not be obligated to effect any demand registration within six months after the effective date of a previous demand registration. Holders of registrable securities will also have certain “piggyback” registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the 23Table of ContentsBusiness Combination.If holders of registrable securities exercise these rights, or if they sell their shares on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, it could have the effect of increasing the volatility in our stock price or put significant downward pressure on the price of our stock.•If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the price and trading volume of our common stock could decline.The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors. If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on it, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.•Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include:•a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors;•no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;•the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;•the ability of our board of directors to determine whether to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;•a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;•the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors;•limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers;•controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of stockholder meetings;•providing that directors may be removed prior to the expiration of their terms by stockholders only for cause; and•advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company.24Table of ContentsThese provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of the Company or changes in our management.As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of 66 2/3% of the disinterested holders of our outstanding common stock. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.•We have outstanding warrants that are exercisable for our common stock. If they are exercised it would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders.Outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 5,838,334 shares of our common stock became exercisable on June 20, 2013, and will expire at 5:00 p.m., New York time, on May 21, 2018, or earlier upon redemption or liquidation. The exercise price of these warrants is $6.00 per one-half share, or $70.1 million in the aggregate for all shares underlying these warrants, assuming none of the warrants are exercised through “cashless” exercise. To the extent such warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to the holders of common stock of the Company and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.•The market price of our common stock may decline.Fluctuations in the price of our securities could contribute to the loss of all or part of your investment. Prior to the Business Combination, trading in the shares of our common stock had not been active. If an active market for our securities develops and continues, the trading price of our shares could be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our securities may trade at prices significantly below the price you paid for them. In such circumstances, the trading price of our securities may not recover and may experience a further decline.•We may be adversely affected by new regulations relating to conflict minerals.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains regulations concerning the supply of certain minerals and metals, known as “conflict minerals,” originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. In August 2012 the SEC adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use such conflict minerals. These new requirements will require due diligence efforts, with initial disclosure requirements beginning in May 2014. There will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including the costs of investigations to determine the sources of raw materials used in our products and the costs of any changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of the results of such investigations. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering these materials conflict free, we cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain necessary materials from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of its products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we may implement.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 