ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks, which we believe are the principal risks that we face and of which we are currently aware, and all of the other information in this report. Some of the risks described below relate to our business, while others relate principally to the securities markets and ownership of our limited partnership interests. Partnership interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. The risks and uncertainties our company faces are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Business Natural gas and oil prices fluctuate widely, and low prices for an extended period would likely have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, operating results, financial condition and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital depend substantially on prevailing prices for natural gas and oil, which have declined substantially. Lower commodity prices may reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically. Historically, natural gas and oil prices and markets have been volatile, with prices fluctuating widely, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Depressed prices in the future would have a negative impact on our future financial results and could result in an impairment charge. Because our reserves are predominantly natural gas, changes in natural gas prices have a more significant impact on our financial results. 28 Prices for natural gas and oil are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas and oil, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include but are not limited to the following: · the levels and location of natural gas and oil supply and demand and expectations regarding supply and demand, including the potential long-term impact of an abundance of natural gas and oil (such as that produced from our Marcellus Shale properties) on the domestic and global natural gas and oil supply; · the level of industrial and consumer product demand; · weather conditions; · fluctuating seasonal demand; · political conditions or hostilities in natural gas and oil producing regions, including the Middle East, Africa and South America; · the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other exporting nations to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; · the price level of foreign imports; · actions of governmental authorities; · the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering, transportation, processing and/or refining facilities in regional or localized areas that may affect the realized price for natural gas and oil; · inventory storage levels; · the nature and extent of domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation, including environmental and climate change regulation; · the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels; · technological advances affecting energy consumption; · speculation by investors in oil and natural gas; · variations between product prices at sales points and applicable index prices; and · overall economic conditions, including the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other major currencies. These factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it impossible to predict with any certainty the future prices of natural gas and oil. In the past, the prices of natural gas, NGLs and oil have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. During the year ended December 31, 2014, the NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas index price ranged from a high of $6.15 per MMBtu to a low of $2.89 per MMBtu, and West Texas Intermediate oil prices ranged from a high of $107.26 per Bbl to a low of $53.27 per Bbl. Between January 1, 2015 and February 25, 2015, the NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas index price ranged from a high of $3.23 per MMBtu to a low of $2.58 per MMBtu, and West Texas Intermediate oil prices ranged from a high of $53.53 per Bbl to a low of $44.45 per Bbl. If natural gas and oil prices decline significantly for a sustained period of time, the lower prices may adversely affect our ability to make planned expenditures, raise additional capital or meet our financial obligations. 29 Competition in the natural gas and oil industry is intense, which may hinder our ability to acquire natural gas and oil properties and companies and to obtain capital, contract for drilling equipment and secure trained personnel. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties and other natural gas and oil companies, attracting capital through our Drilling Partnerships, contracting for drilling equipment and securing trained personnel. Our competitors may be able to pay more for natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil properties and drilling equipment and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Moreover, our competitors for investment capital may have better track records in their programs, lower costs or stronger relationships with participants in the oil and gas investment community than we do. All of these challenges could make it more difficult for us to execute our growth strategy. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring leasehold acreage or prospective reserves or in raising additional capital. Furthermore, competition arises not only from numerous domestic and foreign sources of natural gas and oil but also from other industries that supply alternative sources of energy. Competition is intense for the acquisition of leases considered favorable for the development of natural gas and oil in commercial quantities. Product availability and price are the principal means of competition in selling natural gas and oil. Many of our competitors possess greater financial and other resources than we do, which may enable them to identify and acquire desirable properties and market their natural gas and oil production more effectively than we can. Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment and crews, or the costs required to obtain the foregoing in a highly competitive environment, could impair our operations and results. Increased demand for drilling rigs, equipment and crews, due to increased activity by participants in our primary operating areas or otherwise, can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, drilling equipment, services and personnel. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced drilling crews and oil field equipment and services could restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations that we currently have planned. Any delay in the drilling of new wells or significant increase in drilling costs could reduce our revenues. Many of our leases are in areas that have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells. Our key operated project areas are located in active drilling areas in the Mississippi Lime, Marble Falls, Utica Shale and Marcellus Shale, and many of our leases are in areas that have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling. This may inhibit our ability to find economically recoverable quantities of natural gas and oil in these areas. Our operations require substantial capital expenditures to increase our asset base. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our asset base will decline, which could cause our revenues to decline and affect our ability to pay distributions. The natural gas and oil industry is capital intensive. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital funds on satisfactory terms with capital raised through equity and debt offerings, cash flow from operations, bank borrowings and the Drilling Partnerships, we may be unable to increase or maintain our inventory of properties and reserve base, or be forced to curtail drilling or other activities. This could cause our revenues to decline and diminish our ability to service any debt that we may have at such time. If we do not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, including with funds from third-party sources, we will be unable to expand our business operations, and may not generate sufficient revenue or have sufficient available cash to pay distributions on our units. Our cash distribution policy limits our ability to grow. Because we distribute our available cash rather than reinvesting it in our business, our growth may not be as significant as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations, and we may not have enough cash to meet our needs if any of the following events occur: · an increase in our operating expenses; · an increase in general and administrative expenses; · an increase in principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt; or · an increase in working capital requirements. 30 If we issue additional common units or incur debt to fund acquisitions and expansion and investment capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units or interest on that debt could increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. Significant physical effects of climate change have the potential to damage our facilities, disrupt our production activities and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. Climate change could have an effect on the severity of weather (including hurricanes and floods), sea levels, the arability of farmland, and water availability and quality. If such effects were to occur, our exploration and production operations have the potential to be adversely affected. Potential adverse effects could include damages to our facilities from powerful winds or rising waters in low lying areas, disruption of our production activities either because of climate-related damages to our facilities or our costs of operation potentially rising from such climatic effects, less efficient or non-routine operating practices necessitated by climate effects or increased costs for insurance coverage in the aftermath of such effects. Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect effect on our financing and operations by disrupting the transportation or process-related services provided by midstream companies, service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. We may not be able to recover through insurance some or any of the damages, losses or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change. We depend on certain key customers for sales of our natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids. To the extent these customers reduce the volumes of natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids they purchase or process from us, or cease to purchase or process natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids from us, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline. We market the majority of our natural gas production to gas utility companies, gas marketers, local distribution companies and industrial or other end-users. Crude oil produced from our wells flow directly into leasehold storage tanks where it is picked up by an oil company or a common carrier acting for an oil company. Natural gas liquids are extracted from the natural gas stream by processing and fractionation plants enabling the remaining “dry” gas (low Btu content) to meet pipeline specifications for transport to end users or marketers operating on the receiving pipeline. For the year ended December 31, 2014, Tenaska Marketing Ventures, Chevron, Enterprise and Interconn Resources LLC accounted for approximately 25%, 15%, 14% and 13% of our total natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids production revenue, respectively, with no other single customer accounting for more than 10% for this period. To the extent these and other key customers reduce the amount of natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids they purchase from us, our revenues and cash available for distributions to unitholders could temporarily decline in the event we are unable to sell to additional purchasers. An increase in the differential between the NYMEX or other benchmark prices of oil and natural gas and the wellhead price that we receive for our production could significantly reduce our cash available for distribution and adversely affect our financial condition. The prices that we receive for our oil and natural gas production sometimes reflect a discount to the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX. The difference between the benchmark price and the price that we receive is called a differential. Increases in the differential between the benchmark prices for oil and natural gas and the wellhead price that we receive could significantly reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders and adversely affect our financial condition. We use the relevant benchmark price to calculate our hedge positions, and we do not have any commodity derivative contracts covering the amount of the basis differentials we experience in respect of our production. As such, we will be exposed to any increase in such differentials, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Some of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that may expire in the near future. As of December 31, 2014, leases covering approximately 40,103 of our 794,030 net undeveloped acres, or 5.1%, are scheduled to expire on or before December 31, 2015. An additional 0.7% of our net undeveloped acres are scheduled to expire in 2016 and 1.6% in 2017. If we are unable to renew these leases or any leases scheduled for expiration beyond their expiration date, on favorable terms, we will lose the right to develop the acreage that is covered by an expired lease. 31 Drilling for and producing natural gas and oil are high-risk activities with many uncertainties. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for natural gas and oil can be uneconomic, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: · the high cost, shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services; · unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; · adverse weather conditions; · facility or equipment malfunctions; · title problems; · pipeline ruptures or spills; · compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; · unusual or unexpected geological formations; · formations with abnormal pressures; · injury or loss of life; · environmental accidents such as gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment or oil leaks, including groundwater contamination; · fires, blowouts, craterings and explosions; and · uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids. Any one or more of the factors discussed above could reduce or delay our receipt of drilling and production revenues, thereby reducing our earnings, and could reduce revenues in one or more of our Drilling Partnerships, which may make it more difficult to finance our drilling operations through sponsorship of future partnerships. In addition, any of these events can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination, loss of wells and regulatory penalties. Although we maintain insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from our operations, insurance against all operational risks are not available to us. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could reduce our results of operations. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would reduce our cash flow from operations and income. Producing natural gas and oil reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our natural gas and oil reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. Our ability to find and acquire additional recoverable reserves to replace current and future production at acceptable costs depends on our generating sufficient cash flow from operations and other sources of capital, principally from the sponsorship of new Drilling Partnerships, all of which are subject to the risks discussed elsewhere in this section. 32 A decrease in commodity prices could subject our oil and gas properties to a non-cash impairment loss under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Long-lived assets are reviewed for potential impairments at the lowest levels for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of other groups of assets. We test our oil and gas properties on a field-by-field basis, by determining if the historical cost of proved properties less the applicable depletion, depreciation and amortization and abandonment is less than the estimated expected undiscounted future cash flows. The expected future cash flows are estimated based on our economic interests and our plans to continue to produce and develop proved reserves. Expected future cash flow from the sale of production of reserves is calculated based on estimated future prices. We estimate prices based on current contracts in place at the impairment testing date, adjusted for basis differentials and market related information, including published future prices. The estimated future level of production is based on assumptions surrounding future levels of prices and costs, field decline rates, market demand and supply, and the economic and regulatory climates. Accordingly, further declines in the price of commodities may cause the carrying value of our oil and gas properties to exceed the expected future cash flows, and a non-cash impairment loss would be required to be recognized in the financial statements for the difference between the estimated fair market value (as determined by discounted future cash flows) and the carrying value of the assets. Estimates of reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Underground accumulations of natural gas and oil cannot be measured in an exact way. Natural gas and oil reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of natural gas and oil and assumptions concerning future natural gas prices, production levels and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Our current estimates of our proved reserves are prepared by our internal engineers and our independent petroleum engineers. Over time, our internal engineers may make material changes to reserve estimates taking into account the results of actual drilling and production. Some of our reserve estimates were made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, which are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Also, we make certain assumptions regarding future natural gas prices, production levels and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions by actual figures could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas and oil attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows. Our standardized measure is calculated using natural gas prices that do not include financial hedges. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of natural gas and oil we ultimately recover being different from our reserve estimates. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on historical prices and costs. However, actual future net cash flows from our natural gas and oil properties also will be affected by factors such as: · actual prices we receive for natural gas and oil; · the amount and timing of actual production; · the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; · the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; and · changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas and oil properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. 33 Any significant variance in our assumptions could materially affect the quantity and value of reserves, the amount of standardized measure, and our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our reserves or standardized measure may be revised downward or upward based upon production history, results of future exploitation and development activities, prevailing natural gas and oil prices and other factors. A material decline in prices paid for our production can reduce the estimated volumes of our reserves because the economic life of our wells could end sooner. Similarly, a decline in market prices for natural gas or oil may reduce our standardized measure. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or cause us to lose money. Pricing for natural gas, NGLs and oil has been volatile and unpredictable for many years. To limit exposure to changing natural gas and oil prices, we may use financial hedges and physical hedges for our production. Physical hedges are not deeded hedges for accounting purposes because they require firm delivery of natural gas and oil and are considered normal sales of natural gas and oil. We general limit these arrangements to smaller quantities than those we project to be available at any delivery point. In addition, we may enter into financial hedges, which may include purchases of regulated NYMEX futures and options contracts and non-regulated over-the-counter futures contracts with qualified counterparties in compliance with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The futures contracts are commitments to purchase or sell natural gas and oil at future dates and generally cover one-month periods for up to six years in the future. The over-the-counter derivative contracts are typically cash settled by determining the difference in financial value between the contract price and settlement price and do not require physical delivery of hydrocarbons. These hedging arrangements may reduce, but will not eliminate, the potential effects of changing commodity prices on our cash flow from operations for the periods covered by these arrangements. Furthermore, while intended to help reduce the effects of volatile commodity prices, such transactions, depending on the hedging instrument used, may limit our potential gains if commodity prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, these arrangements expose us to risks of financial loss in a variety of circumstances, including when: · a counterparty is unable to satisfy its obligations; · production is less than expected; or · there is an adverse change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received for our production. In addition, it is not always possible for us to engage in a derivative transaction that completely mitigates our exposure to commodity prices and interest rates. Our financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices and interest rates for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge transaction. The failure by counterparties to our derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. If any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under our derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of our future production being subject to commodity price changes. Due to the accounting treatment of derivative contracts, increases in prices for natural gas, crude oil and NGLs could result in non-cash balance sheet reductions and non-cash losses in our statement of operations. We account for our derivative contracts by applying the mark-to-market accounting treatment required for these derivative contracts. We could recognize incremental derivative liabilities between reporting periods resulting from increases or decreases in reference prices for natural gas, crude oil and NGLs, which could result in us recognizing a non-cash loss in our combined statements of operations and a consequent non-cash decrease in our equity between reporting periods. Any such decrease could be substantial. In addition, we may be required to make cash payments upon the termination of any of these derivative contracts. 34 Regulations adopted by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Act is intended to change fundamentally the way swap transactions are entered into, transforming an over-the-counter market in which parties negotiate directly with each other into a regulated market in which most swaps are to be executed on registered exchanges or swap execution facilities and cleared through central counterparties. These statutory requirements are implemented through regulation, primarily through rules adopted by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Many market participants are newly regulated as swap dealers or major swap participants, with new regulatory capital requirements and other regulations that impose business conduct rules and mandate how they hold collateral or margin for swap transactions. All market participants are subject to new reporting and recordkeeping requirements. The new regulations may require us to comply with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our existing or future derivative activities. As a commercial end-user which uses swaps to hedge or mitigate commercial risk, rather than for speculative purposes, we are permitted to opt out of the clearing and exchange trading requirements, but we could nevertheless be exposed to greater liquidity and credit risk with respect to our hedging transactions if we do not use cleared and exchange-traded swaps. The new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts; materially alter the terms of derivative contracts; reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter; reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our derivative contracts in existence at that time; and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce or change the way we use derivative instruments as a result of the legislation or regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. The legislation was also intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Any acquisitions we complete are subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and reduce our ability to make distributions to unitholders. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: · the validity of our assumptions about reserves, future production, revenues, capital expenditures and operating costs; · an inability to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire; · a decrease in our liquidity by using a portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility to finance acquisitions; · a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; · the assumption of unknown environmental or title and other liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; · the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and increased demand on existing personnel; · the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of oil and natural gas properties, goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges; · unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas; and · the loss of key purchasers of our production; and · the failure to realize expected growth or profitability. 35 Our decision to acquire oil and natural gas properties depends in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses, seismic data and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. The scope and cost of the above risks may be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Further, our future acquisition costs may be higher than those we have achieved historically. Any of these factors could adversely affect our future growth. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations from any future acquisitions with our operations and in realizing all of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. The integration of previously independent operations can be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining these systems, as well as any operations we may acquire in the future, include, among other things: · operating a significantly larger combined entity; · the necessity of coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; · integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; · consolidating operational and administrative functions; · integrating internal controls, compliance under Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters; · the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; · a significant increase in our indebtedness; and · potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. Costs incurred and liabilities assumed in connection with an acquisition and increased capital expenditures and overhead costs incurred to expand our operations could harm our business or future prospects, and result in significant decreases in our gross margin and cash flows. Our acquisitions may prove to be worth less than we paid, or provide less than anticipated proved reserves, because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves, well performance, and potential liabilities as well as uncertainties in forecasting oil and natural gas prices and future development, production and marketing costs. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, development potential, well performance, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Our estimates of future reserves and estimates of future production for our acquisitions are initially based on detailed information furnished by the sellers and subject to review, analysis and adjustment by our internal staff, typically without consulting independent petroleum engineers. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain; our proved reserves estimates may thus exceed actual acquired proved reserves. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties that we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well. Even when we inspect a well, we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. As a result of these factors, the purchase price we pay to acquire oil and natural gas properties may exceed the value we realize. Also, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it is generally not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition given the time constraints imposed by the applicable acquisition agreement. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor would it necessarily permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and potential. 36 Acquired properties may not produce as projected and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. One of our growth strategies is to capitalize on opportunistic acquisitions of natural gas reserves. However, reviews of acquired properties are often incomplete because it generally is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. A detailed review of records and properties also may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, and may not permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well that we acquire. Potential problems, such as deficiencies in the mechanical integrity of equipment or environmental conditions that may require significant remedial expenditures, are not necessarily observable even when we inspect a well. Any unidentified problems could result in material liabilities and costs that negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to identify problems with an acquisition, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection or indemnity against all or part of these problems. Even if a seller agrees to provide indemnity, the indemnity may not be fully enforceable and may be limited by floors and caps on such indemnity. We may not identify all risks associated with the acquisition of oil and natural gas properties, or existing wells, and any indemnifications we receive from sellers may be insufficient to protect us from such risks, which may result in unexpected liabilities and costs to us. Our business strategy focuses on acquisitions of undeveloped oil and natural gas properties that we believe are capable of production. We have acquired and may make additional acquisitions of undeveloped oil and gas properties from time to time, subject to available resources. Any future acquisitions will require an assessment of recoverable reserves, title, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental hazards, potential tax and other liabilities and other factors. Generally, it is not feasible for us to review in detail every individual property involved in a potential acquisition. In making acquisitions, we generally focus most of our title, environmental and valuation efforts on the properties that we believe to be more significant, or of higher-value. Even a detailed review of properties and records may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor would it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. In addition, we do not inspect in detail every well that we acquire. Potential problems, such as deficiencies in the mechanical integrity of equipment or environmental conditions that may require significant remedial expenditures, are not necessarily observable even when we perform a detailed inspection. Any unidentified problems could result in material liabilities and costs that negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to identify problems with an acquisition, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection or indemnity against all or part of these problems. Even if a seller agrees to provide indemnity, the indemnity may not be fully enforceable or may be limited by floors and caps, and the financial wherewithal of such seller may significantly limit our ability to recover our costs and expenses. Any limitation on our ability to recover the costs related any potential problem could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Any production associated with the assets acquired in the Rangely acquisition will decline if the operator’s access to sufficient amounts of carbon dioxide is limited. Production associated with the assets we acquired in the Rangely acquisition is dependent on CO2 tertiary recovery operations in the Rangely Field. The crude oil and NGL production from these tertiary recovery operations depends, in large part, on having access to sufficient amounts of CO2. The ability to produce oil and NGLs from these assets would be hindered if the supply of CO2 was limited due to, among other things, problems with the Rangely Field’s current CO2 producing wells and facilities, including compression equipment, or catastrophic pipeline failure. Any such supply limitation could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and cash flows associated with these tertiary recovery operations. Our anticipated future crude oil and NGL production from tertiary operations is also dependent on the timing, volumes and location of CO2 injections and, in particular, on the operator’s ability to increase its combined purchased and produced volumes of CO2 and inject adequate amounts of CO2 into the proper formation and area within the Rangely Field. Ownership of our oil, gas and natural gas liquids production depends on good title to our property. Good and clear title to our oil and gas properties is important. Although we will generally conduct title reviews before the purchase of most oil, gas, natural gas liquids and mineral producing properties or the commencement of drilling wells, such reviews do not assure that an unforeseen defect in the chain of title will not arise to defeat our claim, which could result in a reduction or elimination of the revenue received by us from such properties. 37 Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions or by state environmental agencies. Some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. For example: · On December 17, 2014, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo’s administration said it would ban hydraulic fracturing for shale gas development throughout the state. Dr. Howard Zucker, the Acting Commissioner of Health, announced that the state Department of Health completed its long-awaited public health review report, which recommended prohibiting hydraulic fracturing in New York. Dr. Zucker cited significant uncertainties regarding risks to public health in concluding that hydraulic fracturing should not proceed in New York until more research is completed. Based upon the Department of Health report, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner Joe Martens announced that it will soon issue a legally-binding findings statement that will prohibit hydraulic fracturing in the state. Martens noted that the public health risks associated with hydraulic fracturing outweigh its potential economic benefits, particularly in light of the number of municipalities that have banned natural gas drilling within their borders. · Pennsylvania has adopted a variety of regulations limiting how and where fracturing can be performed. On February 14, 2012, legislation was passed in Pennsylvania requiring, among other things, disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. We refer to this legislation as the “2012 Oil and Gas Act.” To implement the new legislative requirements, on December 14, 2013 the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, which we refer to as PADEP, proposed amendments to its environmental regulations at 25 Pa. Code Chapter 78, Subchapter C, pertaining to environmental protection performance standards for surface activities at oil and gas well sites. According to PADEP, the conceptual changes would update existing requirements regarding containment of regulated substances, waste disposal, site restoration and reporting releases, and would establish new planning, notice, construction, operation, reporting and monitoring standards for surface activities associated with the development of oil and gas wells. PADEP has also proposed to add new requirements for addressing impacts to public resources, identifying and monitoring orphaned and abandoned wells during hydraulic fracturing activities, and submitting water withdrawal information necessary to secure a required water management plan. The public comment period on the proposed amendments to PADEP’s proposed amendments at 25 Pa. Code Chapter 78, Subchapter C closed on March 14, 2014, and PADEP is in the process of reviewing and considering over 24,000 comments received during the comment period. Additionally, PADEP announced in June 2014 that it also intends to propose amendments to its present environmental regulations at 25 Pa. Code Chapter 78, Subchapters D (relating to well drilling, operation and plugging) and H (relating to underground gas storage). PADEP has indicated that it will bifurcate its 25 Pa. Code Chapter 78 regulations into two parts as a result of a legislative bill that passed in July 2014 as a companion to Pennsylvania’s budget for 2014 to 2015. 25 Pa. Code Chapter 78 will apply to conventional wells and 25 Pa. Code Chapter 78A will apply to unconventional wells. In January 2015, PADEP issued the results of its Technologically Enhanced Naturally Occurring Radioactive Materials Study, which analyzed levels of radioactivity associated with oil and gas development in Pennsylvania. Initiated in January 2013, the study evaluated radioactivity levels in flowback waters, treatment solids, and drill cuttings, in addition to the transportation, storage and disposal of these materials. According to the study, PADEP concluded that there is little potential for harm to workers or the public from radiation exposure due to oil and gas development, as well as provided recommendations for further study to be conducted. · Ohio has in recent years expanded its oil and gas regulatory program. In June 2012, Ohio passed legislation that made several significant amendments to the state’s oil and gas laws, including additional permitting requirements, chemical disclosure requirements, and site investigation requirements for horizontal wells. In June 2013, legislation was adopted imposing sampling requirements and disposal restrictions on certain drilling wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive material and requiring the state regulatory authority to adopt rules on the design and operation of facilities that store, recycle, or dispose of brine or other oil and natural gas related waste materials. In February 2014, the regulatory authority proposed rules imposing detailed construction standards on well pads, and in April 2014, Ohio announced new standard drilling permit conditions to address concerns regarding seismic activity in certain parts of the state. 38 · For wells spudded January 1, 2014 and after, the Texas Railroad Commission adopted new rules regarding well casing, cementing, drilling, completion and well control for ensuring hydraulic fracturing operations do not contaminate nearby water resources. Recent Railroad Commission rules and regulations focus on prevention of waste, as evidenced by regulations relating to the commercial recycling of produced water and/or hydraulic fracturing flowback fluid approved in September 2012, and more stringent permitting for venting/flaring of casinghead gas and gas well gas beginning in January 2014. · A new West Virginia rule that became effective July 1, 2013 imposes more stringent regulation of horizontal drilling and was promulgated to provide further direction in the implementation and administration of the Natural Gas Horizontal Well Control Act that became effective on December 14, 2011. In 2014, West Virginia revised its solid waste regulations to allow landfills to increase their tonnage limits specifically for natural gas drilling wastes, along with requiring more stringent controls and radiation testing of landfills located in the state. In addition to state law, local land use restrictions, such as municipal ordinances, may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. Recent changes regarding local land use restrictions in Pennsylvania occurred because of decisions of the Pennsylvania Supreme and Commonwealth Courts. On December 19, 2013, when the Pennsylvania Supreme Court issued its Robinson Township v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania ruling, which invalidated key sections of the 2012 Oil and Gas Act that placed limits on the regulatory authority of local governments. Additionally, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court remanded a number of issues to the Commonwealth Court for further decision. On July 17, 2014, the Commonwealth Court ruled on the remanded issues. The cumulative effect of the Supreme and Commonwealth Court rulings is that all of the challenged provisions relating to local ordinances contained in the 2012 Oil and Gas Act are invalid, except for the definitions section and most of the updated preemption language in the 2012 Oil and Gas Act that was included from the 1984 Oil and Gas Act. While the total impact of these rulings are not clear and will occur over an extended period of time, an immediate impact of the rulings has been increased regulatory impediments and disputes at the local government level, as well as validity challenges initiated by private landowners alleging that local ordinances do not adequately protect health, safety, and welfare. On June 30, 2014, the New York Court of Appeals issued its opinion in Wallach v. Town of Dryden affirming local zoning laws adopted by two upstate municipalities that prohibited oil and gas-related activities within their borders. Specifically, the Court of Appeals ruled that there was nothing within the plain language, statutory scheme and legislative history of the New York Oil, Gas and Solution Mining Law that manifested an intent by the legislature to preempt a municipality’s home rule authority to regulate land use. On October 16, 2014, the New York Court of Appeals denied a request by the petitioner – the bankruptcy trustee for Norse Energy – to re-hear arguments in the case. If state, local or municipal legal restrictions are adopted in areas where we are currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct operations, we may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from the drilling of wells. Generally, Federal, state and local restrictions and requirements are applied consistently to similar types of producers (e.g., conventional, unconventional, etc.), regardless of size of the producing company. Although, to date, the hydraulic fracturing process has not generally been subject to regulation at the federal level, there are certain governmental reviews either under way or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices, and some federal regulation has taken place. A few of these initiatives are listed here, although others may exist now or be implemented in the future. In April 2012, President Obama established an Interagency Working Group to Support Safe and Responsible Development of Unconventional Domestic Natural Gas Resources with the purpose of coordinating the policies and activities of agencies regarding unconventional gas development. EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel as an additive under the Safe Drinking Water Act. In May 2012, EPA issued draft permitting guidance for oil and gas hydraulic fracturing activities using diesel fuel. In February 2014, EPA released its revised final guidance document on Safe Drinking Water Act underground injection control permitting for hydraulic fracturing using diesel fuels, along with responses to selected substantive public comments on EPA’s previous draft guidance, a fact sheet and a memorandum to EPA’s regional offices regarding implementation of the guidance. The process for implementing EPA’s final guidance document may vary across the states depending on the regulatory authority responsible for implementing the Safe Drinking Water Act underground injection control program in each state. Furthermore, a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. For example, EPA is currently studying the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater. EPA issued a progress report regarding the hydraulic fracturing study on December 21, 2012. However, the progress report did not provide any results or conclusions. On December 9, 2013, EPA’s Hydraulic Fracturing Study Technical Roundtable of subject-matter experts from a variety of stakeholder groups met to discuss the work underway to answer the hydraulic fracturing study’s key research questions. Individual research projects associated with EPA’s study were published in July 2014. Research results are expected to be 39 released in draft form for review by the public and EPA’s Science Advisory Board. EPA has not provided a specific date for completion of the draft report after peer review, which may occur in 2015. In 2013, EPA indicated that it intended to propose a draft water quality criteria document that would update the aquatic life water quality criteria for chloride by the summer of 2014. However, EPA has yet to propose the draft water quality criteria document and it has not provided an updated timeframe for the proposal. EPA announced in its September 2014 “Final 2012 and Preliminary 2014 Effluent Guidelines Program Plans” document that it intends to continue a rulemaking effort to potentially revise the effluent limitation guidelines for the Oil and Gas Extraction Point Source Category to address pretreatment standards for shale gas extraction. EPA proposed in that same document a detailed study of centralized waste treatment facilities that accept oil and gas extraction wastewater. The public comment period on the Preliminary 2014 Effluent Guidelines Program Plan closed on November 17, 2014. EPA is evaluating the comments submitted and will next prepare and issue the Final 2014 Effluent Guidelines Program Plan. On May 4, 2012, the U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management proposed a rule that includes provisions requiring disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and construction standards for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. On May 24, 2013, the Bureau of Land Management published a revised proposed rule to regulate hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands. The comment period closed on August 23, 2013 and the revised proposed rule drew more than 175,000 comments. A revised rule was reportedly sent to the White House Office of Management and Budget review in August 2014, and a final rule is expected to be issued in 2015. Certain members of the U.S. Congress have called upon the U.S. Government Accountability Office to investigate how hydraulic fracturing might adversely affect water resources, and Congress has asked the SEC to investigate the natural gas industry and any possible misleading of investors or the public regarding the economic feasibility of pursuing natural gas deposits in shales by means of hydraulic fracturing. In addition, Congress requested the U.S. Energy Information Administration to provide a better understanding of that agency’s estimates regarding natural gas reserves, including reserves from shale formations, as well as uncertainties associated with those estimates. On December 16, 2013, the U.S. Energy Information Administration published an abridged version of its Annual Energy Outlook 2014 with projections to 2040 report, with the full report released on May 7, 2014. The next Annual Energy Outlook is reported to be in March 2015 by U.S. Energy Information Administration. These ongoing proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could result in initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act or one or more other regulatory mechanisms. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted at the state and local level, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform hydraulic fracturing to stimulate production from dense subsurface rock formations and, in the event of local prohibitions against commercial production of natural gas, may preclude our ability to drill wells. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by EPA or other federal agencies, our fracturing activities could be significantly affected. Some of the potential effects of changes in Federal, state or local regulation of hydraulic fracturing operations could include the following: · additional permitting requirements and permitting delays; · increased costs; · changes in the way operations, drilling and/or completion must be conducted; · increased recordkeeping and reporting; and · restrictions on the types of additives that can be used. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the natural gas, while potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt our operations and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, or greenhouse gases, present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act that, among other things, establish Prevention of Significant Deterioration construction and Title V operating permit reviews for certain large stationary sources that are potential major sources of greenhouse gas emissions. Facilities required to obtain Prevention of Significant Deterioration permits because of their potential criteria pollutant emissions will be required to comply with “best available control technology” standards for greenhouse gases. These regulations could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources. 40 While Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing greenhouse gas emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those greenhouse gases. In addition, the Obama Administration announced its Climate Action Plan in 2013, which, among other things, directs federal agencies to develop a strategy for the reduction of methane emissions, including emissions from the oil and gas industry. As part of the Climate Action Plan, the Obama Administration also announced that it intends to adopt additional regulations to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and to encourage greater use of low carbon technologies in the coming years. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations. Recently promulgated rules regulating air emissions from oil and natural gas operations could cause us to incur increased capital expenditures and operating costs. In August 2012, EPA published final rules that established new and revised requirements for emissions from oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations. Specifically, EPA’s rule package includes New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds, and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants to address emissions of hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission and storage activities. The New Source Performance Standards require operators, beginning January 1, 2015, to reduce volatile organic compounds emissions from oil and natural gas production facilities by conducting “green completions” for hydraulic fracturing, that is, recovering rather than venting or flaring the gas and NGLs that come to the surface during completion of the fracturing process. The New Source Performance Standards also established new notification and reporting requirements, more stringent leak detection standards for natural gas processing plants, and specific requirements regarding emissions from compressors, storage tanks, and other sources. In 2013, EPA made significant changes to the New Source Performance Standards applicable to storage vessels, and in December 2014, EPA finalized additional revisions to the New Source Performance Standards, including revisions to the green completion requirements. Compliance with recently revised New Source Performance Standards and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants rules could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business. States are also proposing more stringent requirements for emissions from well sites and compressor stations. For example, in August 2013, Pennsylvania revised its list of sources exempt from air permitting requirements such that previously exempted types of sources associated with unconventional oil and gas exploration and production now are required to demonstrate compliance with specific criteria(e.g., emission limits, monitoring and recordkeeping) in order to claim the permit exemption. PADEP has since released implementation instructions that expand the list of information which operators must submit in a compliance demonstration in order to rely on the exemption. Additionally, PADEP issued a revised General Permit for Natural Gas Compression and/or Processing Facilities in January 2015 that requires the permittee to annually certify its compliance with the terms and conditions of the general permit. In April 2014, Ohio revised its current General Permit for Natural Gas Production Operations to cover emissions from completion activities. In 2013, West Virginia issued General Permit 70-A for natural gas production facilities at the well site. In February 2015, West Virginia issued a draft General Permit 80-A to replace General Permit 70-A and other exiting general permits for natural gas compressor and dehydration facilities. 41 The third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex federal, state and other laws that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our business. The operations of the third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations that require obtaining and maintaining numerous permits, approvals and certifications from various federal, state and local government authorities. These third parties may incur substantial costs in order to comply with existing laws and regulation. If existing laws and regulations governing such third-party services are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to their operations, these changes may affect the costs that we pay for such services. Similarly, a failure to comply with such laws and regulations by the third parties on whom we rely could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our drilling and production operations require adequate sources of water to facilitate the fracturing process and the disposal of flowback and produced water. If we are unable to dispose of the flowback and produced water from the strata at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, our ability to produce gas economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired. A significant portion of our natural gas extraction activity utilizes hydraulic fracturing, which results in water that must be treated and disposed of in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. Environmental regulations governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing may increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. For example, the 2012 Oil and Gas Act requires the development, submission and approval of a water management plan before withdrawing or using water from water sources in Pennsylvania to drill or hydraulically fracture an unconventional well. The requirements of these plans continue to be modified by proposed amendments to state regulations and agency policies and guidance. For Pennsylvania operations located in the Susquehanna River Basin, the Susquehanna River Basin Commission regulates consumptive water uses, water withdrawals, and the diversions of water into and out of the Susquehanna River Basin, and specific approvals are required prior to initiating drilling activities. In June 2012, Ohio passed legislation that established a water withdrawal and consumptive use permit program in the Lake Erie watershed. If certain withdrawal thresholds are triggered due to water needs for a particular project, we will be required to develop a Water Conservation Plan and obtain a withdrawal permit for that project. West Virginia also requires that if a certain amount of water is withdrawn water management plans are required and/or registration and reporting requirements are triggered. Our ability to collect and dispose of water will affect our production, and potential increases in the cost of water treatment and disposal may affect our profitability. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct hydraulic fracturing or disposal of produced water, drilling fluids and other substances associated with the exploration, development and production of gas and oil. For example, in July 2012, the Ohio Department of Natural Resources promulgated amendments to the regulations governing disposal wells in Ohio. The rules provide the Department with the authority to require certain testing as part of the process for obtaining a permit for the underground injection of produced water, and require all new disposal wells to be equipped with continuous pressure monitors and automatic shut off devices. Impact fees and severance taxes could materially increase our liabilities. In an effort to offset budget deficits and fund state programs, many states have imposed impact fees and/or severance taxes on the natural gas industry. Pennsylvania’s Oil and Gas Act of 2012, passed in February 2012, implemented an impact fee for unconventional wells drilled in the Commonwealth. An unconventional gas well is a well that is drilled into an unconventional formation, which would include the Marcellus Shale. The impact fee, which changes from year to year, is computed using the prior year’s trailing 12- month NYMEX natural gas price and is based upon a tiered pricing matrix. Based upon natural gas prices for 2014, the impact fee for qualifying unconventional horizontal wells spudded during 2014 was $50,300 per well and the impact fee for unconventional vertical wells was $10,100 per well. The impact fee is due by April 1 of the year following the year that a horizontal unconventional well is spudded or a vertical unconventional well is put into production. The fee will continue for 15 years for a horizontal unconventional well and 10 years for a vertical unconventional well. ARP estimates that the impact fee for its wells including the wells in its Drilling Partnerships will be approximately $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. If new laws implementing additional taxes and fees become applicable, our operating costs may materially increase. 42 President Obama’s budget proposals for fiscal year 2016 includes proposed provisions with significant tax consequences. The proposed budget, if enacted, would repeal over $4 billion per year in U.S. tax subsidies to oil, gas and other fossil fuel producers. Because we handle natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil, we may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of substances into the environment. How we plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon natural gas wells and associated facilities are matters subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example: · The federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions; · The federal Clean Water Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to spills, releases, streams, wetlands and discharges of pollutants into regulated bodies of water; · The federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling and disposal of waste, including produced waters, from our facilities; · The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which we have sent waste for disposal; and · Wildlife protection laws and regulations such as the Migratory Bird Treaty Act that requires operators to cover reserve pits during the cleanup phase of the pit, if the pit is open more than 90 days. Complying with these requirements is expected to increase costs and prompt delays in natural gas production. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain all necessary permits and, if obtained, that the costs associated with obtaining such permits will not exceed those that previously had been estimated. It is possible that the costs and delays associated with compliance with such requirements could cause us to delay or abandon the further development of certain properties. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. These enforcement actions may be handled by the EPA and/or the appropriate state agency. In some cases, the EPA has taken a heightened role in oil and gas enforcement activities. For example, in 2011, EPA Region III requested the lead on all oil and gas related violations in the United States Army Corps of Engineers’ Pittsburgh District. The EPA, the United States Army Corps of Engineers’ and the United States Department of Justice have been actively pursuing instances of unpermitted stream and wetland impacts, particularly for activities occurring in West Virginia. We also understand that the EPA has taken an increased interest in assessing operator compliance with the Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures regulations, set forth at 40 CFR Part 112. Certain environmental statutes, including RCRA, CERCLA, the federal Oil Pollution Act and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where certain substances have been disposed of or otherwise released, whether caused by our operations, the past operations of our predecessors or third parties. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. There is an inherent risk that we may incur environmental costs and liabilities due to the nature of our business and the substances we handle. For example, an accidental release from one of our wells could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies may be enacted or adopted and could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover remediation costs under our respective insurance policies. 43 We are subject to comprehensive federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could increase the cost and alter the manner or feasibility of us doing business. Our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. The regulatory environment in which we operate includes, in some cases, legal requirements for obtaining environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing drilling and production activities. In addition, our activities will be subject to the regulations regarding conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of natural gas and oil we may produce and sell. A major risk inherent in a drilling plan is the need to obtain drilling permits from state and local authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could inhibit our ability to develop our respective properties. The natural gas and oil regulatory environment could also change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs of compliance with these laws and regulations and, consequently, reduce our profitability. For example, the 2012 Oil and Gas Act imposes significant, costly requirements on the natural gas industry, including the imposition of increased bonding requirements and impact fees for unconventional gas wells, based on the price of natural gas and the age of the unconventional gas well. Proposed regulations associated with this legislation were published for public comment by the PADEP and, if finalized, will affect how natural gas operations are conducted in Pennsylvania. West Virginia has promulgated regulations associated with its existing Horizontal Well Control Act and has developed new aboveground storage tank laws that are being applied broadly and impose stringent requirements that affect the natural gas industry. We may be put at a competitive disadvantage to larger companies in the industry that can spread these additional costs over a greater number of wells and these increased regulatory hurdles over a larger operating staff. We may not be able to continue to raise funds through our Drilling Partnerships at desired levels, which may in turn restrict our ability to maintain our drilling activity at recent levels. We sponsor limited and general partnerships to finance certain of our development drilling activities. Accordingly, the amount of development activities that we will undertake depends in large part upon our ability to obtain investor subscriptions to invest in these partnerships. We raised $166.8 million, $150.0 million, and $127.1 million in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. In the future, we may not be successful in raising funds through these Drilling Partnerships at the same levels that it experienced, and we also may not be successful in increasing the amount of funds we raise. Our ability to raise funds through our Drilling Partnerships depends in large part upon the perception of investors of their potential return on their investment and their tax benefits from investing in them, which perception is influenced significantly by our historical track record of generating returns and tax benefits to the investors in our existing partnerships. In the event that our Drilling Partnerships do not achieve satisfactory returns on investment or the anticipated tax benefits, we may have difficulty in maintaining or increasing the level of Drilling Partnership fundraising relative to the levels achieved by us. In this event, we may need to seek financing for our drilling activities through alternative methods, which may not be available, or which may be available only on a less attractive basis than the financing we realized through these Drilling Partnerships, or we may determine to reduce drilling activity. Changes in tax laws may impair our ability to obtain capital funds through Drilling Partnerships. Under current federal tax laws, there are tax benefits to investing in Drilling Partnerships, including deductions for intangible drilling costs and depletion deductions. However, both the Obama Administration’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2016 and other recently introduced legislation include proposals that would, among other things, eliminate or reduce certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs and certain environmental clean-up costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development. The repeal of these oil and gas tax benefits, if it happens, would result in a substantial decrease in tax benefits associated with an investment in our Drilling Partnerships. These or other changes to federal tax law may make investment in the Drilling Partnerships less attractive and, thus, reduce our ability to obtain funding from this significant source of capital funds. 44 Fee-based revenues may decline if we are unsuccessful in sponsoring new Drilling Partnerships. Our fee-based revenues will be based on the number of Drilling Partnerships we sponsor and the number of partnerships and wells we manage or operate. If we are unsuccessful in sponsoring future Drilling Partnerships, our fee-based revenues may decline. Our revenues may decrease if investors in our Drilling Partnerships do not receive a minimum return. We have agreed to subordinate a portion of our share of production revenues, net of corresponding production costs, to specified returns to the investor partners in the Drilling Partnerships, typically 10% to 12% per year for the first five to eight years of distributions. Thus, our revenues from a particular partnership will decrease if we do not achieve the specified minimum return. For the year ended December 31, 2014, $5.3 million of our revenues, net of corresponding production costs, were subordinated, which reduced our cash distributions received from the Drilling Partnerships. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the subordinated amounts were $9.6 million and $6.3 million, respectively, net of corresponding production costs. We or one of our subsidiaries may be exposed to financial and other liabilities as the managing general partner in Drilling Partnerships. We or one of our subsidiaries serves as the managing general partner of the Drilling Partnerships and will be the managing general partner of new Drilling Partnerships that we sponsor. As a general partner, we or one of our subsidiaries will be contingently liable for the obligations of the partnerships to the extent that partnership assets or insurance proceeds are insufficient. We have agreed to indemnify each investor partner in the Drilling Partnerships from any liability that exceeds such partner’s share of the Drilling Partnership’s assets. Covenants in our credit facility restrict our business in many ways. Our credit facility contains various restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: · incur additional debt or liens or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; · pay distributions or redeem or repurchase our securities; · prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; · make loans, investments and acquisitions; · enter into hedging arrangements; · sell assets; · enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and · consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. In addition, our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders under the credit facility could elect to declare all amounts outstanding immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our credit facility. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our credit facility and our other liabilities. Our borrowings under our credit facility are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same. 45 Our debt obligations could restrict our ability to pay cash distributions and have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity position. Our debt obligations could have important consequences to us and our investors, including: · requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest payments on this debt; · making it more difficult to satisfy debt service and other obligations; · increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing; · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that may not be as leveraged with debt; · limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise; and · limiting our ability to pay cash distributions. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. In addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to refinance our debt. Economic conditions and instability in the financial markets could negatively impact our business which, in turn, could impact the cash we have to make distributions to our unitholders. Our operations are affected by the financial markets and related effects in the global financial system. The consequences of an economic recession and the effects of the financial crisis include a lower level of economic activity and increased volatility in energy prices. This may result in a decline in energy consumption and lower market prices for oil and natural gas and has previously resulted in a reduction in drilling activity in our service areas. Any of these events may adversely affect our revenues and ability to fund capital expenditures and, in the future, may impact the cash that we have available to fund our operations, pay required debt service on our credit facility and make distributions to our unitholders. Potential instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, can cause volatility in the markets and may affect our ability to raise capital and reduce the amount of cash available to fund operations. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available to us to the extent required and on acceptable terms. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could negatively impact our access to liquidity needed for our businesses and impact flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. We may be unable to execute our growth strategies, take advantage of business opportunities or to respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively impact our business. A weakening of the current economic situation could have an adverse impact on producers, key suppliers or other customers, or on our lenders, causing them to fail to meet their obligations. Market conditions could also impact our derivative instruments. If a counterparty is unable to perform its obligations and the derivative instrument is terminated, our cash flow and ability to pay distributions could be impacted which in turn affects the amount of distributions that we are able to make to our unitholders. The uncertainty and volatility surrounding the global financial system may have further impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict or anticipate. 46 Our historical financial information may not be representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone public company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. Some of the historical financial information that we have included in this report may not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been an independent, stand-alone entity during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future. The general and administrative expenses reflected in the financial statements for Atlas Energy E&P Operations include an allocation for certain corporate functions historically provided by Atlas Energy, Inc. These allocations were based on what we and Atlas Energy, Inc. considered to be reasonable reflections of the historical utilization levels of these services required in support of the business. We have not adjusted the historical financial statements for Atlas Energy E&P Operations to reflect changes that occurred in our cost structure and operations as a result of our transition to becoming a stand-alone public company. Therefore, the financial statements of Atlas E&P Operations and our historical financial information may not necessarily be indicative of what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows will be in the future. A cyber incident or a terrorist attacks could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss. We have become increasingly dependent upon digital technologies, including information systems, infrastructure and cloud applications and services, to operate our businesses, to process and record financial and operating data, communicate with our employees and business partners, analyze seismic and drilling information, estimate quantities of oil and gas reserves, as well as other activities related to our businesses. Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets, may be at greater risk of future cyber or terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. Deliberate attacks on, or security breaches in our systems or infrastructure, or the systems or infrastructure of third parties or the cloud, could lead to corruption or loss of our proprietary data and potentially sensitive data, delays in production or delivery, challenges in maintaining our books and records and other operational disruptions and third party liability. Our insurance may not protect us against such occurrences. Consequently, it is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, as cyber incidents continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents. Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our Common Units If the unit price declines, our common unitholders could lose a significant part of their investment. The market price of our common units could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: · changes in securities analysts’ recommendations and their estimates of our financial performance; · the public’s reaction to our press releases, announcements and our filings with the SEC; · fluctuations in broader securities market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of natural gas and oil companies and securities of publicly traded limited partnerships and limited liability companies; · fluctuations in natural gas and oil prices; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · departures of key personnel; · commencement of or involvement in litigation; · variations in our quarterly results of operations or those of other natural gas and oil companies; · variations in the amount of our cash distributions; · future issuances and sales of our units; and · changes in general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the natural gas and oil industry. 47 In recent years, the securities market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Future market fluctuations may result in a lower price of our common units. Sales of our common units may cause our unit price to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common units to decline. In addition, the sale of these units could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common units. At December 31, 2014, Atlas Energy owned approximately 20.96 million common and 3.75 million preferred limited partner units, representing approximately 27.7% limited partner ownership interest in us, all of which were distributed to a subsidiary of our general partner in the Atlas Energy Merger. Our general partner is free to sell some or all of these common units at any time. In addition, we have agreed to register under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which we refer to as the Securities Act, any sale of common units held by our general partner and its affiliates. These registration rights allow our general partner and its affiliates to request registration of their common units and to include any of those units in a registration of other securities by us. If our general partner and its affiliates were to sell a substantial portion of their units, it could reduce the market price of our outstanding common units. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in our common units is subject to risks. Investors may be willing to accept these risks in exchange for possibly receiving a higher rate of return than may otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly traded limited partner interests. Reduced demand for our common units resulting from investors seeking other investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations to pay the minimum quarterly distribution following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our general partner. We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserve amounts that our general partner establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders and the holders of the distribution incentive rights. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: · the amount of natural gas and oil we produce; · the price at which we sell our natural gas and oil; · the level of our operating costs; · our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; · the results of our hedging activities; · the level of our interest expense, which depends on the amount of our indebtedness and the interest payable on it; and · the level of our capital expenditures. 48 In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · our ability to make working capital borrowings to pay distributions; · the cost of acquisitions, if any; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; · timing and collectability of receivables; · restrictions on distributions imposed by lenders; · payments to our general partner; and · the strength of financial markets and our ability to access capital or borrow funds. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability. The amount of cash that we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses, and we may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. We have the right to borrow to make distributions. Repayment of these borrowings will decrease cash available for future distributions, and covenants in our credit facility have restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement allows us to borrow to make distributions. We may make short term borrowings under our credit facility, which we refer to as working capital borrowings, to make distributions. The primary purpose of these borrowings would be to mitigate the effects of short term fluctuations in our working capital that would otherwise cause volatility in our quarter to quarter distributions. Our revolving credit facility restricts, among other things, our ability to incur debt and pay distributions, and requires us to comply with customary financial covenants and specified financial ratios. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any provisions of our revolving credit facility that are not cured or waived within the specified time periods, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, and we will be prohibited from making distributions to our unitholders. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our revolving credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our revolving credit facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner for services provided may be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Pursuant to our partnership agreement, our general partner receives reimbursement for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit. Payments for these services may be substantial, are not subject to any aggregate limit, and will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. 49 If we do not pay distributions on our common units in any fiscal quarter, our unitholders are not entitled to receive distributions for such prior periods in the future. Our distributions to our unitholders are not cumulative. Consequently, if we do not pay distributions on our common units with respect to any quarter, our unitholders are not entitled to such payments in the future. With limited exceptions, our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders that own 20% or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement prohibits any person or group that owns 20% or more of our common units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates and transferees, from voting on any matter. Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. Our general partner, as the initial holder of our incentive distribution rights, has the right, at any time when it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (50.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters and the amount of each such distribution did not exceed adjusted operating surplus for such quarter, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following any reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner transfers all or a portion of our incentive distribution rights in the future, then the holder or holders of a majority of our incentive distribution rights will be entitled to exercise this reset right. If a reset election is made, then the holder of the incentive distribution rights will be entitled to receive additional common units from the partnership equal to the number of common units that would have entitled the holder of such additional common units to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that the holder of our incentive distribution rights may exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such reset. It is possible, however, that the reset right is exercised at a time when the holder is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Our unitholders who fail to furnish certain information requested by our general partner or who our general partner determines are not eligible citizens may not be entitled to receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation and their common units will be subject to redemption. We have the right to redeem all of the units of any holder that is not an eligible citizen if we are or become subject to federal, state, or local laws or regulations that, in the determination of our general partner, create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property in which we have an interest because of the nationality, citizenship or other related status of any limited partner. Our general partner may require any limited partner or transferee to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or related status. If a limited partner fails to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or other related status within a reasonable period after a request for the information or our general partner determines after receipt of the information that the limited partner is not an eligible citizen, the limited partner may be treated as a non-citizen assignee. A non-citizen assignee does not have the right to direct the voting of his units and may not receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation. Furthermore, we have the right to redeem all of the common units of any holder that is not an eligible citizen or fails to furnish the requested information. 50 Common units held by persons who are non-taxpaying assignees will be subject to the possibility of redemption. If our general partner determines that our not being treated as an association taxable as a corporation or otherwise taxable as an entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, coupled with the tax status (or lack of proof thereof) of one or more of our limited partners, has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our assets or generate revenues from our assets, then our general partner may adopt such amendments to our partnership agreement as it determines are necessary or appropriate to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status of our limited partners (and their owners, to the extent relevant) and permit us to redeem the units held by any person whose tax status has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rate that can be charged to customers by our subsidiaries or who fails to comply with the procedures instituted by our general partner to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its board of directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our common unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Common unitholders do not elect our general partner or the members of its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is elected by its unitholders. Furthermore, the vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of all outstanding common units is required to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations on the ability of holders of our common units to influence the management of our company, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished. Our general partner’s interest in us and the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party without the consent of our unitholders, either before March 13, 2022 in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets, or after March 13, 2022 under any circumstances if such transfer is otherwise in compliance with our partnership agreement. In addition, our general partner may transfer all or a portion of its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of the incentive distribution rights. We may issue an unlimited number of additional units, including units that are senior to the common units, without unitholder approval, which would dilute common unitholders’ ownership interests. Any additional issuance will not dilute the general partner interest in us. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional units that we may issue at any time without the approval of our common unitholders. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance by us of additional units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: · our common unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; · the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and · the market price of our common units may decline. 51 Moreover, the issuance of additional common units will not dilute the holder of our class A units. The class A units represent a 2% general partner interest in us, and the holder of such class A units will be entitled to 2% of our cash distributions without any obligation to make future capital contributions to us. The 2% sharing ratio of the class A units will not be reduced if we issue additional common units in the future. Because the 2% sharing ratio will not be reduced if we issue additional common units, and in order to ensure that each class A unit represents the same percentage economic interest in us as one common unit, if we issue additional common units, we will also issue to our general partner, for no additional consideration and without any requirement to make a capital contribution, an additional number of class A units so that the total number of outstanding class A units after such issuance equals 2% of the sum of the total number of common units and class A units after such issuance. In addition, the payment of distributions on any additional units may increase the risk that we will not be able to make distributions at our prior per unit distribution levels. To the extent new units are senior to our common units, their issuance will increase the uncertainty of the payment of distributions on our common units. As a limited partnership, we qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE rules. Under the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) listing standards, a limited partnership is exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including: · the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consists of independent directors; · the requirement that we have a nominating/governance committee that is comprised entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; · the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and · the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/governance and compensation committees. We utilize some of the foregoing exemptions from the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE listing standards. As a result, we do not have a nominating/governance committee or a compensation committee. In addition, NYSE rules requiring that stockholder approval be obtained prior to certain issuances of equity securities do not apply to limited partnerships. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than two-thirds of the outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (1) the highest cash price paid by our general partner or any of its affiliates for any limited partner interests of the class purchased within the 90 days preceding the date on which our general partner first mails notice of its election to purchase those limited partner interests; and (2) the average of the daily closing prices of the limited partner interests of such class over the 20 trading days preceding the date three days before the date of the mailing of the exercise notice for such call right. You may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your common units. The credit and risk profiles of our general partner could adversely affect our credit ratings and profile. The credit and risk profiles of our general partner may be factors in credit evaluations of us as a publicly traded limited partnership due to the significant influence of our general partner over our business activities, including our cash distributions, acquisition strategy and business risk profile. Another factor that may be considered is the financial condition of our general partner, including the degree of its financial leverage and its dependence on cash flow from us to service its indebtedness. 52 Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. You could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if, among other potential reasons: · a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or · your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitutes “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them, or other liabilities with respect to ownership of our units. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17–607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (“Delaware Act”), we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to us are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of common units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to such purchaser of common units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, taxes paid, if any, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter that affects us. We are currently treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, which requires that 90% or more of our gross income for every taxable year consist of qualifying income, as defined in Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. Qualifying income is defined as income and gains derived from the exploration, development, mining or production, processing, refining, transportation (including pipelines transporting gas, oil, or products thereof), or the marketing of any mineral or natural resource (including fertilizer, geothermal energy and timber). We may not meet this requirement or current law may change so as to cause, in either event, us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise be subject to federal income tax. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss, deduction or credit would flow through to you. Because a tax may be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be reduced. Therefore, our treatment as a corporation could result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders and therefore result in a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. 53 Current law or our business may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to you would be reduced. Our limited partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state or local or foreign income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the incentive distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Unitholders will be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from their share of our taxable income. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”) and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. A successful IRS contest of the U.S. federal income tax positions we take may harm the market for our common units, and the costs of any contest will reduce cash available for distribution. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other matter that affects us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and a court may disagree with some or all of those positions. Any contest with the IRS may lower the price at which our common units trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders. We treat each holder of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units held. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could reduce the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing U.S. Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could reduce the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a unitholder sells their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the adjusted tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions and the allocation of losses, including depreciation deductions, to the unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to them, which decreased the tax basis in their common units, will, in effect, become taxable income to them if the common units are sold at a price greater than their tax basis in those common units, even if the price is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to the unitholder. 54 We will be considered to have terminated for tax purposes due to a sale or exchange of 50% or more of our interests within a 12-month period. We will be considered to have terminated for tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. A constructive termination results in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and in the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, may result in more than 12 months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. A constructive termination occurring on a date other than December 31 will result in us filing two tax returns, and unitholders receiving two Schedule K-1s, for one fiscal year and the cost of the preparation of these returns will be borne by all unitholders. Unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We do business and own assets in Alabama, Colorado, Indiana, New Mexico, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, West Virginia and Wyoming. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may do business or own assets in other states in the future. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all U.S. federal, foreign, state and local tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. The IRS may challenge our tax treatment related to transfers of units, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new U.S. Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between us and our public unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to such assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, including the valuation of our assets, we make many of the fair market value estimates of our assets ourselves using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of our common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain on the sale of common units by our unitholders and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to the tax returns of our unitholders without the benefit of additional deductions. 55 A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. Risks Relating to Our Ongoing Relationship with Our General Partner and its Affiliates Affiliates of our general partner own common and preferred limited partner units representing an approximate 27.7% limited partner ownership interest. Therefore, our general partner possesses significant influence on all matters submitted to a vote of our unitholders. At December 31, 2014, Atlas Energy owned approximately 20.96 million common and 3.75 million preferred limited partner units, representing an approximate 27.7% limited partner ownership interest in us, all of which were distributed to an affiliate of our general partner in the Atlas Energy Merger. Accordingly, our general partner possesses significant influence over matters submitted to our unitholders for approval, and could exercise such influence in a manner that is not in the best interests of our other unitholders, including the ability to effectively prevent the approval of certain matters, such as removal of our general partner and other extraordinary transactions for which super-majority approval is required under applicable Delaware law. In addition, our general partner is able to control, subject to our partnership agreement and applicable law, all matters affecting us, including: · any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; · any determinations with respect to mergers, business combinations or disposition of assets; · our financing; · compensation and benefit programs and other human resources policy decisions; · the payment of dividends on our units; and · determinations with respect to our tax returns. Our general partner has the authority to conduct our business and manage our operations. ATLS may have conflicts of interest, which may permit it to favor its own interests to our unitholders’ detriment. Conflicts of interest may arise between our general partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner is permitted to favor its own interests and the interests of its owners over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires our general partner or any of its affiliates to pursue a business strategy that favors us or to refer any business opportunity to us; · our general partner is expressly allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us in resolving conflicts of interest; · our partnership agreement eliminates any fiduciary duties owed by our general partner to us, and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; 56 · except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; · our general partner determines the amount and timing of our drilling programs and related capital expenditures, asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and reserves; · our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; · our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditure and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion or investment capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. Our partnership agreement does not set a limit on the amount of maintenance capital expenditures that our general partner may estimate; · our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates; · our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; · our general partner decides which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; and · our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Our general partner and affiliates of our general partner may compete with us. This could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to replace reserves, results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that for so long as it is the general partner of ARP, our general partner’s sole business will be to act as a general partner of ARP and any other partnership or limited liability company of which ARP is, directly or indirectly, a partner or member and to undertake activities that are ancillary or related thereto. This restriction does not apply to any person other than our general partner, and our general partner may hold or dispose any interest that it acquires or obtains from any affiliate or unrestricted person (as defined in our partnership agreement), and perform activities in connection holding such interest. Affiliates of our general partner, therefore, are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. Our general partner owns general and limited partner interests in an exploration and production development subsidiary, which currently conducts operations in the mid-continent region of the United States, interests in entities which incubate new master limited partnerships and invest in existing ones, and natural gas development and production assets in the Arkoma Basin. Our general partner and its affiliates may make future investments and acquisitions that may include entities or assets that we would have been interested in acquiring. In addition, members of management of ATLS have substantial experience in the natural gas and oil business. Therefore, our general partner and its affiliates may compete with us for investment opportunities and ATLS and its affiliates may own an interest in entities that compete with us. Our partnership agreement provides that: · affiliates of our general partner have no obligation to refrain from engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business we do, doing business with any of our customers or employing or otherwise engaging any of our officers or employees; · neither our general partner nor any of its officers or directors will be liable to us or to our unitholders for breach of any duty, including any fiduciary duty, by reason of any of these activities; and · none of our general partner, its affiliates or any of their respective directors or officers is under any duty to present any corporate opportunity to us which may be a corporate opportunity for such person and us, and such person will not be liable to us or our unitholders for breach of any duty, including any fiduciary duty, by reason of the fact that such person pursues or acquires that corporate opportunity for itself, directs that corporate opportunity to another person or does not present that corporate opportunity to us. 57 Accordingly, our general partner and its affiliates may acquire, develop or dispose of additional natural gas or oil properties or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or develop any of those assets. These factors may make it difficult for us to compete with our general partner and its affiliates with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates. As a result, competition from these entities could adversely impact our results of operations and accordingly cash available for distribution. This also may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and our general partner, and its affiliates and result in less than favorable treatment of us. Certain of the officers and directors of our general partner may have actual or potential conflicts of interest with us. Our general partner’s officers and directors have duties to manage us in a manner beneficial to us, but they also have duties to manage our general partner’s business in a manner beneficial to it. Certain of our non-independent directors and officers also have positions with other affiliates of our general partner. Consequently, these directors and officers may encounter situations in which their obligations to our general partner or one or more of its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand, are in conflict. Additionally, such directors and officers may own common units of our general partner, options to purchase common units of our general partner or other equity awards, as well as equity of our general partner’s affiliates, which may be significant for some of these persons. Their positions and ownership of such equity and equity awards creates, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when they are faced with decisions that could have different implications for ATLS and/or its affiliates than the decisions have for us. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 