ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks, which we believe are the principal risks that we face and of which we are currently aware, and all of the other information in this report. Some of the risks described below relate to our business, while others relate principally to the securities markets and ownership of our limited partnership interests. 24 Table of Contents Partnership interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Business If commodity prices decline significantly, our cash flow from operations will decline. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow substantially depend upon the prices and demand for natural gas and oil. The natural gas and oil markets are very volatile, and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Changes in natural gas and oil prices will have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our cash flow. Prices for natural gas and oil may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas or oil, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: • the level of domestic and foreign supply and demand; • the price and level of foreign imports; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions and fluctuating and seasonal demand; • overall domestic and global economic conditions; • political and economic conditions in natural gas and oil producing countries, including those in the Middle East and South America; • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on natural gas and oil prices; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • domestic and foreign governmental relations, regulations and taxation; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; • the cost, proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. In the past, the prices of natural gas and oil have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2012, the NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas index price ranged from a high of $3.90 per MMBtu to a low of $1.91 per MMBtu, and West Texas Intermediate oil prices ranged from a high of $109.77 per Bbl to a low of $77.69 per Bbl. Between January 1, 2013 and February 25, 2013, the NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas index price ranged from a high of $3.57 per MMBtu to a low of $3.11 per MMBtu, and West Texas Intermediate oil prices ranged from a high of $97.94 per Bbl to a low of $92.84 per Bbl. Competition in the natural gas and oil industry is intense, which may hinder our ability to acquire natural gas and oil properties and companies and to obtain capital, contract for drilling equipment and secure trained personnel. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties and other natural gas and oil companies, attracting capital through our investment partnerships, contracting for drilling equipment and securing trained personnel. Our competitors may be able to pay more for natural gas and oil properties and drilling equipment and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Moreover, our competitors for 25 Table of Contents investment capital may have better track records in their programs, lower costs or stronger relationships with participants in the oil and gas investment community than we do. All of these challenges could make it more difficult for us to execute our growth strategy. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring leasehold acreage or prospective reserves or in raising additional capital. Furthermore, competition arises not only from numerous domestic and foreign sources of natural gas and oil but also from other industries that supply alternative sources of energy. Competition is intense for the acquisition of leases considered favorable for the development of natural gas and oil in commercial quantities. Product availability and price are the principal means of competition in selling natural gas and oil. Many of our competitors possess greater financial and other resources than we do, which may enable them to identify and acquire desirable properties and market their natural gas and oil production more effectively than we can. Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment and crews, or the costs required to obtain the foregoing in a highly competitive environment, could impair our operations and results. Increased demand for drilling rigs, equipment and crews, due to increased activity by participants in our primary operating areas or otherwise, can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, drilling equipment, services and personnel. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced drilling crews and oil field equipment and services could restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations that we currently have planned. Any delay in the drilling of new wells or significant increase in drilling costs could reduce our revenues. Many of our leases are in areas that have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells. Our key project areas are located in active drilling areas in the Appalachian Basin, and many of our leases are in areas that have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling. This may inhibit our ability to find economically recoverable quantities of natural gas in these areas. Our operations require substantial capital expenditures to increase our asset base. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our asset base will decline, which could cause our revenues to decline and affect our ability to pay distributions. The natural gas and oil industry is capital intensive. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital funds on satisfactory terms with capital raised through equity and debt offerings, cash flow from operations, bank borrowings and the investment partnerships, we may be unable to increase or maintain our inventory of properties and reserve base, or be forced to curtail drilling or other activities. This could cause our revenues to decline and diminish our ability to service any debt that we may have at such time. If we do not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, including with funds from third-party sources, we will be unable to expand our business operations, and may not generate sufficient revenue or have sufficient available cash to pay distributions on our units. Our cash distribution policy limits our ability to grow. Because we distribute our available cash rather than reinvesting it in our business, our growth may not be as significant as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. If we issue additional common units or incur debt to fund acquisitions and expansion and investment capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units or interest on that debt could increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. Significant physical effects of climatic change have the potential to damage our facilities, disrupt our production activities and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. Climate change could have an effect on the severity of weather (including hurricanes and floods), sea levels, the arability of farmland, and water availability and quality. If such effects were to occur, our exploration and production operations have the potential to be adversely affected. Potential adverse effects could include damages to our facilities from powerful winds or rising waters in low lying areas, disruption of our production activities either because of climate-related damages to our facilities or our costs of operation potentially rising from such climatic effects, less efficient or non-routine operating practices necessitated by climate effects or increased costs for insurance coverage in the aftermath of such effects. Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect effect on our financing and operations by disrupting the transportation or process-related services provided by midstream companies, service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. We may not be able to recover through insurance some or any of the damages, losses or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change. 26 Table of Contents We depend on certain key customers for sales of our natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids. To the extent these customers reduce the volumes of natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids they purchase from us, or cease to purchase natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids from us, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline. We market the majority of our natural gas production to gas utility companies, gas marketers, local distribution companies and industrial or other end-users. Crude oil produced from our wells flow directly into leasehold storage tanks where it is picked up by an oil company or a common carrier acting for an oil company. Natural gas liquids are extracted from the natural gas stream by processing and fractionation plants enabling the remaining “dry” gas (low Btu content) to meet pipeline specifications for transport to end users or marketers operating on the receiving pipeline. For the year ended December 31, 2012, Chevron and Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC accounted for approximately 43% and 11% of our total natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids production revenue, respectively, with no other single customer accounting for more than 10% for this period. To the extent these and other key customers reduce the amount of natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids they purchase from us, our revenues and cash available for distributions to unit holders could temporarily decline in the event we are unable to sell to additional purchasers. An increase in the differential between the NYMEX or other benchmark prices of oil and natural gas and the wellhead price that we receive for our production could significantly reduce our cash available for distribution and adversely affect our financial condition. The prices that we receive for our oil and natural gas production sometimes reflect a discount to the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX. The difference between the benchmark price and the price that we receive is called a differential. Increases in the differential between the benchmark prices for oil and natural gas and the wellhead price that we receive could significantly reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders and adversely affect our financial condition. We use the relevant benchmark price to calculate our hedge positions, and we do not have or plan to have any commodity derivative contracts covering the amount of the basis differentials we experience in respect of our production. As such, we will be exposed to any increase in such differentials, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Some of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that may expire in the near future. As of December 31, 2012, leases covering approximately 49,786 of our 321,642 net undeveloped acres, or 15.5%, are scheduled to expire on or before December 31, 2013. An additional 10% are scheduled to expire in each of the years 2014 and 2015. If we are unable to renew these leases or any leases scheduled for expiration beyond their expiration date, on favorable terms, we will lose the right to develop the acreage that is covered by an expired lease, which would reduce our cash flows from operations. Drilling for and producing natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for natural gas can be uneconomic, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: • the high cost, shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services; • unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; • adverse weather conditions; • facility or equipment malfunctions; • title problems; • pipeline ruptures or spills; • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; 27 Table of Contents • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • formations with abnormal pressures; • injury or loss of life; • environmental accidents such as gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment or oil leaks, including groundwater contamination; • fires, blowouts, craterings and explosions; and • uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids. Any one or more of the factors discussed above could reduce or delay our receipt of drilling and production revenues, thereby reducing our earnings, and could reduce revenues in one or more of our investment partnerships, which may make it more difficult to finance our drilling operations through sponsorship of future partnerships. In addition, any of these events can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination, loss of wells and regulatory penalties. Although we maintain insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from our operations, insurance against all operational risks are not available to us. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could reduce our results of operations. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would reduce our cash flow from operations and income. Producing natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. Our ability to find and acquire additional recoverable reserves to replace current and future production at acceptable costs depends on our generating sufficient cash flow from operations and other sources of capital, principally from the sponsorship of new investment partnerships, all of which are subject to the risks discussed elsewhere in this section. A decrease in natural gas prices could subject our oil and gas properties to a non-cash impairment loss under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Long-lived assets are reviewed for potential impairments at the lowest levels for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of other groups of assets. We test our oil and gas properties on a field-by-field basis, by determining if the historical cost of proved properties less the applicable depletion, depreciation and amortization and abandonment is less than the estimated expected undiscounted future cash flows. The expected future cash flows are estimated based on our economic interests and our plans to continue to produce and develop proved reserves. Expected future cash flow from the sale of production of reserves is calculated based on estimated future prices. We estimate prices based on current contracts in place at the impairment testing date, adjusted for basis differentials and market related information, including published future prices. The estimated future level of production is based on assumptions surrounding future levels of prices and costs, field decline rates, market demand and supply, and the economic and regulatory climates. Accordingly, further declines in the price of natural gas may cause the carrying value of our oil and gas properties to exceed the expected future cash flows, and a non-cash impairment loss would be required to be recognized in the financial statements for the difference between the estimated fair market value (as determined by discounted future cash flows) and the carrying value of the assets. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or cause us to lose money. Pricing for natural gas and oil has been volatile and unpredictable for many years. To limit exposure to changing natural gas and oil prices, we use financial hedges for our production which may include purchases of regulated NYMEX 28 Table of Contents futures and options contracts and non-regulated over-the-counter futures contracts with qualified counterparties. The futures contracts are commitments to purchase or sell natural gas at future dates and generally cover one-month periods for up to six years in the future. These hedging arrangements may reduce, but will not eliminate, the potential effects of changing commodity prices on our cash flow from operations for the periods covered by these arrangements. Furthermore, while intended to help reduce the effects of volatile commodity prices, such transactions, depending on the hedging instrument used, may limit our potential gains if commodity prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. If, among other circumstances, production is substantially less than expected, the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts or a sudden, unexpected event materially changes commodity prices, we may be exposed to the risk of financial loss. In addition, it is not always possible for us to engage in a derivative transaction that completely mitigates our exposure to commodity prices and interest rates. Our financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices and interest rates for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge transaction. Due to the accounting treatment of derivative contracts, increases in prices for natural gas, crude oil and NGLs could result in non-cash balance sheet reductions and non-cash losses in our statement of operations. We account for our derivative contracts by applying the mark-to-market accounting treatment required for these derivative contracts. We could recognize incremental derivative liabilities between reporting periods resulting from increases or decreases in reference prices for natural gas, crude oil and NGLs, which could result in us recognizing a non-cash loss in our combined statements of operations and a consequent non-cash decrease in our equity between reporting periods. Any such decrease could be substantial. In addition, we may be required to make cash payments upon the termination of any of these derivative contracts. Regulations promulgated by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act is intended to change fundamentally the way swap transactions are entered into, transforming an over-the-counter market in which parties negotiate directly with each other into a regulated market in which most swaps are to be executed on registered exchanges or swap execution facilities and cleared through central counterparties. These statutory requirements must be implemented through regulation, primarily through rules to be adopted by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”). Many market participants will be newly regulated as swap dealers or major swap participants, with new regulatory capital requirements and other regulations that impose business conduct rules and mandate how they hold collateral or margin for swap transactions. All market participants will be subject to new reporting and recordkeeping requirements. The new regulations may require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our existing or future derivative activities. As a commercial end-user which uses swaps to hedge or mitigate commercial risk, rather than for speculative purposes, we are permitted to opt out of the clearing and exchange trading requirements. However, we could be exposed to greater liquidity and credit risk with respect to our hedging transactions if we do not use cleared and exchange-traded swaps. Counterparties to our derivative instruments which are federally insured depository institutions are required to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts; materially alter the terms of derivative contracts; reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter; reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our derivative contracts in existence at that time; and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce or change the way we use derivative instruments as a result of the legislation or regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our combined financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. The scope and costs of the risks involved in making acquisitions may prove greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • the validity of our assumptions about reserves, future production, revenues, capital expenditures and operating costs; 29 Table of Contents • an inability to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire; • a decrease in our liquidity by using a portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility to finance acquisitions; • a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; • the assumption of unknown environmental and other liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and increased demand on existing personnel; • the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of oil and natural gas properties, goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges; • unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas; and • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. The scope and cost of these risks may be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Any of these factors could adversely affect our future growth. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations from any future acquisitions with our operations and in realizing all of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. The integration of previously independent operations can be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining these systems, as well as any operations we may acquire in the future, include, among other things: • operating a significantly larger combined entity; • the necessity of coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; • consolidating operational and administrative functions; • integrating internal controls, compliance under Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; • a significant increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. Costs incurred and liabilities assumed in connection with an acquisition and increased capital expenditures and overhead costs incurred to expand our operations could harm our business or future prospects, and result in significant decreases in our gross margin and cash flows. Properties that we acquired in the separation from Atlas Energy or afterward may not produce as projected and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. One of our growth strategies is to capitalize on opportunistic acquisitions of natural gas reserves. However, reviews of acquired properties are often incomplete because it generally is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. A detailed review of records and properties also may not necessarily reveal existing or potential 30 Table of Contents problems, and may not permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well that we acquire. Potential problems, such as deficiencies in the mechanical integrity of equipment or environmental conditions that may require significant remedial expenditures, are not necessarily observable even when we inspect a well. Any unidentified problems could result in material liabilities and costs that negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to identify problems with an acquisition, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection or indemnity against all or part of these problems. Even if a seller agrees to provide indemnity, the indemnity may not be fully enforceable and may be limited by floors and caps on such indemnity. Our 2012 acquisitions may prove to be worth less than we paid, or provide less than anticipated proved reserves, because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves, well performance, and potential liabilities as well as uncertainties in forecasting oil and natural gas prices and future development, production and marketing costs. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, development potential, well performance, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Our estimates of future reserves and estimates of future production for our 2012 acquisitions are initially based on detailed information furnished by the sellers and subject to review, analysis and adjustment by our internal staff, typically without consulting independent petroleum engineers. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain; our proved reserves estimates may thus exceed actual acquired proved reserves. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties that we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well. Even when we inspect a well, we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. As a result of these factors, the purchase price we pay to acquire oil and natural gas properties may exceed the value we realize. Also, our reviews of the properties included in the 2012 acquisitions are inherently incomplete because it is generally not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition given the time constraints imposed by the applicable acquisition agreement. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and potential. We may not identify all risks associated with the acquisition of oil and natural gas properties, or existing wells, and any indemnifications we receive from sellers may be insufficient to protect us from such risks, which may result in unexpected liabilities and costs to us. Our business strategy focuses on acquisitions of undeveloped oil and natural gas properties that we believe are capable of production. We may make additional acquisitions of undeveloped oil and gas properties from time to time, subject to available resources. Any future acquisitions will require an assessment of recoverable reserves, title, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental hazards, potential tax and other liabilities and other factors. Generally, it is not feasible for us to review in detail every individual property involved in a potential acquisition. In making acquisitions, we generally focus most of our title, environmental and valuation efforts on the properties that we believe to be more significant, or of higher-value. Even a detailed review of properties and records may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor would it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. In addition, we do not inspect in detail every well that we acquire. Potential problems, such as deficiencies in the mechanical integrity of equipment or environmental conditions that may require significant remedial expenditures, are not necessarily observable even when we perform a detailed inspection. Any unidentified problems could result in material liabilities and costs that negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to identify problems with an acquisition, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection or indemnity against all or part of these problems. Even if a seller agrees to provide indemnity, the indemnity may not be fully enforceable or may be limited by floors and caps, and the financial wherewithal of such seller may significantly limit our ability to recover our costs and expenses. Any limitation on our ability to recover the costs related any potential problem could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Ownership of our oil and gas production depends on good title to our property. Good and clear title to our oil and gas properties is important. Although we will generally conduct title reviews before the purchase of most oil, gas and mineral producing properties or the commencement of drilling wells, such reviews do not assure that an unforeseen defect in the chain of title will not arise to defeat our claim, which could result in a reduction or elimination of the revenue received by us from such properties. 31 Table of Contents Federal legislation and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions or by state environmental agencies. Some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. For example: • New York has imposed a de facto moratorium on the issuance of permits for high volume, horizontal hydraulic fracturing until state administered environmental studies are finalized. The New York Department of Environmental Conservation (“NYDEC”) accepted comments on its revised proposal to amend state regulations to address high-volume hydraulic fracturing through January 11, 2013. Final Regulations have not yet been issued. In October 2012, NYDEC asked the New York Health Department to assess the health impacts of high volume hydraulic fracturing. The Health Department has not completed its assessment. NYDEC is not expected to take any final action or make any decision regarding hydraulic fracturing until after the health review is completed and NYDEC, through the environmental impact statement, is satisfied that hydraulic fracturing can be done safely in New York State. • Pennsylvania has adopted a variety of regulations limiting how and where fracturing can be performed. In February 2012, legislation was passed in Pennsylvania requiring, among other things, disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. To implement the new legislative requirements, in August of 2012 the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection issued proposed conceptual changes to its environmental regulations governing oil and gas operations. The conceptual changes would include requiring secondary containment for tanks associated with hydraulic fracturing and the submission of increased water withdrawal information necessary to secure required Water Management Plans. • In June 2012, Ohio passed legislation that made several significant amendments to the state’s oil and gas law, including additional permitting requirements, chemical disclosure requirements, and site investigation requirements for horizontal wells. • In September 2012, the Texas Railroad Commission approved new proposed regulations relating to the commercial recycling of produced water and/or hydraulic fracturing flowback fluid. • In June 2012, the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection introduced a proposed legislative rule titled “Rules Governing Horizontal Well Development,” which imposes more stringent regulation of horizontal drilling. The proposed rule was developed to provide further direction in the implementation and administration of the Natural Gas Horizontal Well Control Act that became effective on December 14, 2011. In addition to state law, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. If state, local, or municipal legal restrictions are adopted in areas where we are currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct, operations, we may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from the drilling of wells. Generally, Federal, state and local restrictions and requirements are applied consistently to similar types of producers (e.g., conventional, unconventional, etc.), regardless of size of the producing company. Although, to date, the hydraulic fracturing process has not generally been subject to regulation at the federal level, there are certain governmental reviews either under way or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices, and some federal regulation has taken place. A few of these initiatives are listed here, although others may exist now or be implemented in the future. In April 2012, President Obama established an Interagency Working Group to Support Safe and Responsible Development of Unconventional Domestic Natural Gas Resources with the purpose of coordinating the policies and activities of agencies regarding unconventional gas development. The EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel as an additive under the Safe Drinking Water Act. In May 2012, the EPA issued draft permitting guidance for oil and gas hydraulic fracturing activities using diesel fuel. After reviewing comments submitted on the draft guidance in September 2012, the EPA is considering withdrawing the 32 Table of Contents draft guidance and reissuing the policies contained therein as a proposed rulemaking. In addition, legislation that would provide for increased federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process could be introduced in the future. Furthermore, a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. For example, the EPA is currently studying the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater. The EPA issued a progress report regarding the hydraulic fracturing study on December 21, 2012. However, the progress report did not provide any results or conclusions. Research results are expected to be released in draft form in late 2014 for review by the public and the EPA Science Advisory Board. The EPA has not provided an anticipated date for completion of the report after peer review. The EPA is also proposing to issue a draft criteria document updating the water quality criteria for chloride in early 2013, and a proposed rule regarding effluent limitation guidelines for natural gas extraction from shale gas in 2014. On May 4, 2012, the U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management proposed a rule that includes provisions requiring disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and construction standards for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. Certain members of U.S. Congress have called upon the U.S. Government Accountability Office to investigate how hydraulic fracturing might adversely affect water resources, and Congress has asked the SEC to investigate the natural gas industry and any possible misleading of investors or the public regarding the economic feasibility of pursuing natural gas deposits in shales by means of hydraulic fracturing. In addition, Congress requested the U.S. Energy Information Administration to provide a better understanding of that agency’s estimates regarding natural gas reserves, including reserves from shale formations, as well as uncertainties associated with those estimates. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could result in initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act or one or more other regulatory mechanisms. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted at the state and local level, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform hydraulic fracturing to stimulate production from dense subsurface rock formations and, in the event of local prohibitions against commercial production of natural gas, may preclude our ability to drill wells. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA or other federal agencies, our fracturing activities could be significantly affected. Some of the potential effects of changes in Federal, state or local regulation of hydraulic fracturing operations could include, but are not limited to, the following: additional permitting requirements, permitting delays, increased costs, changes in the way operations, drilling and/or completion must be conducted, increased recordkeeping and reporting, and restrictions on the types of additives that can be used, among other potential effects that are not listed here. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. Recently promulgated rules regulating air emissions from oil and natural gas operations could cause us to incur increased capital expenditures and operating costs. In August 2012, the EPA published final rules that establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations. Specifically, the EPA’s rule package includes New Source Performance Standards, which we refer to as the NSPS, to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds, and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with oil and natural gas production and processing activities. The NSPS require operators, starting in 2015, to reduce VOC emissions from oil and natural gas production facilities by conducting “green completions” for hydraulic fracturing, that is, recovering rather than venting the gas and natural gas liquids that come to the surface during completion of the fracturing process. The NSPS also establish specific requirements regarding emissions from compressors, dehydrators, storage tanks, and other production equipment. In addition, effective in 2012, the rules establish new notification requirements before conducting hydraulic fracturing and more stringent leak detection requirements for natural gas processing plants. The NSPS became effective October 15, 2012 and will likely require a number of modifications to our operations, including the installation of new equipment. Compliance with the new rules could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business. States are also proposing more stringent requirements in air permits for well sites and compressor stations. For example, Pennsylvania has proposed to revise a list of sources exempt from air permitting requirements such that previously exempted types of sources associated with oil and gas exploration and production would be required to: (1) obtain an air permit or (2) satisfy specific requirements (emission limits, monitoring and recordkeeping) in order to claim the permit exemption. In conjunction with this proposal, Pennsylvania has finalized revisions to its General Permit for Natural Gas Production Facilities to impose additional and more stringent requirements and emission limits. Ohio is also considering revising its current General Permit for Natural Gas Production Operations to cover emissions from completion activities. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our services. 33 Table of Contents Both houses of U.S. Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and almost half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal is achieved. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that limits emissions of greenhouse gases from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations, and such requirements also could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases present a danger to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act that require entities that produce certain gases to inventory, monitor and report such gases. On November 30, 2010, the EPA published a final greenhouse gas emissions reporting rule relating to natural gas processing, transmission, storage, and distribution activities, which required reporting by September 28, 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. Additionally, in 2010, the EPA issued rules to regulate greenhouse gas emissions through traditional major source construction and operating permit programs. The EPA confirmed the permitting thresholds established in the 2010 rule in July 2012. These permitting programs require consideration of and, if deemed necessary, implementation of best available control technology to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As a result, our operations could face additional costs for emissions control and higher costs of doing business. The third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex federal, state and other laws that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our business. The operations of the third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations that require obtaining and maintaining numerous permits, approvals and certifications from various federal, state and local government authorities. These third parties may incur substantial costs in order to comply with existing laws and regulation. If existing laws and regulations governing such third-party services are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to their operations, these changes may affect the costs that we pay for such services. Similarly, a failure to comply with such laws and regulations by the third parties on whom we rely could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our drilling and production operations require adequate sources of water to facilitate the fracturing process and the disposal of that water. If we are unable to dispose of the water we use or remove from the strata at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, our ability to produce gas commercially and in commercial quantities could be impaired. A significant portion of our natural gas extraction activity utilizes hydraulic fracturing, which results in water that must be treated and disposed of in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. Environmental regulations governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing may increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. For example, Pennsylvania requires the development of a Water Management Plan before hydraulically fracturing an unconventional well. The requirements of these plans continue to be modified by state laws and Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (“PADEP”) policies. In June 2012, Ohio passed legislation that established a water withdrawal and consumptive use permit program in the Lake Erie watershed. If certain withdrawal thresholds are triggered due to our water needs for a particular project, we will be required to develop a Water Conservation Plan and obtain a withdrawal permit for that project. Our ability to collect and dispose of water will affect our production, and potential increases in the cost of water treatment and disposal may affect our profitability. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct hydraulic fracturing or disposal of produced water, drilling fluids and other substances associated with the exploration, development and production of gas and oil. For example, in July 2012, pursuant to an executive order by Governor Kasich, the Ohio Department of Natural Resources promulgated emergency amendments to the regulations governing disposal wells in Ohio. The emergency rules provide the Department with the authority to require certain testing as part of the process for obtaining a permit for the underground injection of produced water, and require all new disposal wells to be equipped with continuous pressure monitors and automatic shut off devices. Impact fees and severance taxes could materially increase our liabilities. 34 Table of Contents In an effort to offset budget deficits and fund state programs, many states have imposed impact fees and/or severance taxes on the natural gas industry. In February 2012, Pennsylvania implemented an impact fee for unconventional wells drilled in the Commonwealth. An unconventional gas well is a well that is drilled into an unconventional formation, which would include the Marcellus shale. The impact fee, which changes from year to year, is computed using the prior year’s trailing 12 month NYMEX natural gas price and is based upon a tiered pricing matrix. For example, based upon natural gas prices for 2012, the impact fee for qualifying unconventional horizontal wells spudded during 2012 was $45,000 per well and the impact fee for unconventional vertical wells was reduced to twenty percent of the horizontal well fee. The impact fee is due by April 1 of the year following the year that a horizontal unconventional well is spudded or a vertical unconventional well is put into production. The fee will continue for 15 years for a horizontal unconventional well and 10 years for a vertical unconventional well. We estimate that the impact fee for our wells including the wells in our Drilling Partnerships will be in excess of $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Ohio Governor John Kasich has proposed a severance tax on gas, oil and natural gas liquids produced from high-volume producing formations that are recovered through hydraulic fracturing. Under the proposed tax plan, oil and natural gas liquids recovered through hydraulic fracturing in the Utica and Marcellus shales would be taxed at 1.5% of annual gross sales in the first year and 4% per year for each year thereafter. Natural gas would be taxed yearly at 1% of gross sales. The proposed plan also levies a $25,000 up front impact fee for each well drilled in the state. President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2013 Budget Proposal also includes provisions with significant tax consequences. If enacted, U.S. tax laws would be amended to eliminate the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs and to eliminate the deduction from income for domestic production activities relating to oil and natural-gas exploration and development. Because we handle natural gas and oil, we may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of substances into the environment. How we plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon natural gas wells and associated facilities are matters subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example: • The federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions; • The federal Clean Water Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to spills, releases, streams, wetlands and discharges of pollutants into regulated bodies of water; • RCRA and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling and disposal of waste, including produced waters, from our facilities; • CERCLA and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which we have sent waste for disposal; and • Wildlife protection laws and regulations such as the Migratory Bird Treaty Act that requires operators to cover reserve pits during the cleanup phase of the pit, if the pit is open more than 90 days. Complying with these requirements is expected to increase costs and prompt delays in natural gas production. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain all necessary permits and, if obtained, that the costs associated with obtaining such permits will not exceed those that previously had been estimated. It is possible that the costs and delays associated with compliance with such requirements could cause us to delay or abandon the further development of certain properties. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. These enforcement actions may be handled by the EPA and/or the appropriate state agency. In some cases, the EPA has taken a heightened role in oil and gas enforcement activities. For example, in 2011, EPA Region III requested the lead on all oil and gas related violations in the United States Army Corps of Engineers’ Pittsburgh District. We also understand that the EPA has taken an increased interest in assessing operator compliance with the Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures regulations, set forth at 40 CFR Part 112. 35 Table of Contents Certain environmental statutes, including RCRA, CERCLA, the federal Oil Pollution Act and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where certain substances have been disposed of or otherwise released, whether caused by our operations, the past operations of our predecessors or third parties. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. There is an inherent risk that we may incur environmental costs and liabilities due to the nature of our business and the substances we handle. For example, an accidental release from one of our wells could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies may be enacted or adopted and could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover remediation costs under our respective insurance policies. We are subject to comprehensive federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could increase the cost and alter the manner or feasibility of us doing business. Our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. The regulatory environment in which we operate includes, in some cases, legal requirements for obtaining environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing drilling and production activities. In addition, our activities will be subject to the regulations regarding conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of natural gas we may produce and sell. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state and local authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could inhibit our ability to develop our respective properties. Additionally, the natural gas and oil regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs of compliance with these laws and regulations and, consequently, reduce our profitability. For example, Pennsylvania’s General Assembly approved legislation in February 2012 that imposes significant, costly requirements on the natural gas industry, including the imposition of increased bonding requirements and impact fees for gas wells, based on the price of natural gas and the age of the well. Draft regulations associated with this legislation have been released by the PADEP and, if finalized, will impact how natural gas operations are conducted in Pennsylvania. Similarly, West Virginia has proposed regulations associated with its existing Horizontal Well Control Act and is signaling that additional regulations are on the horizon. We may be put at a competitive disadvantage to larger companies in our industry that can spread these additional costs over a greater number of wells and these increased regulatory hurdles over a larger operating staff. We may not be able to continue to raise funds through our investment partnerships at desired levels, which may in turn restrict our ability to maintain our drilling activity at recent levels. We sponsor limited and general partnerships to finance certain of our development drilling activities. Accordingly, the amount of development activities that we will undertake depends in large part upon our ability to obtain investor subscriptions to invest in these partnerships. We raised $127.1 million in 2012 and before our separation from Atlas Energy, it raised $141.9 million in 2011 and $149.3 million in 2010. In the future, we may not be successful in raising funds through these investment partnerships at the same levels that it experienced, and we also may not be successful in increasing the amount of funds we raise. Our ability to raise funds through our investment partnerships depends in large part upon the perception of investors of their potential return on their investment and their tax benefits from investing in them, which perception is influenced significantly by our historical track record of generating returns and tax benefits to the investors in our existing partnerships. In the event that our investment partnerships do not achieve satisfactory returns on investment or the anticipated tax benefits, we may have difficulty in maintaining or increasing the level of investment partnership fundraising relative to the levels achieved by us. In this event, we may need to seek financing for our drilling activities through alternative methods, which may not be available, or which may be available only on a less attractive basis than the financing we realized through these investment partnerships, or we may determine to reduce drilling activity. Changes in tax laws may impair our ability to obtain capital funds through investment partnerships. Under current federal tax laws, there are tax benefits to investing in investment partnerships, including deductions for intangible drilling costs and depletion deductions. However, both the Obama Administration’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2013 and other recently introduced legislation include proposals that would, among other things, eliminate or reduce certain 36 Table of Contents key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs and certain environmental clean-up costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development. The repeal of these oil and gas tax benefits, if it happens, would result in a substantial decrease in tax benefits associated with an investment in our investment partnerships. These or other changes to federal tax law may make investment in our investment partnerships less attractive and, thus, reduce our ability to obtain funding from this significant source of capital funds. Fee-based revenues may decline if we are unsuccessful in sponsoring new investment partnerships. Our fee-based revenues will be based on the number of investment partnerships we sponsor and the number of partnerships and wells we manage or operate. If we are unsuccessful in sponsoring future investment partnerships, our fee-based revenues may decline. Our revenues may decrease if investors in our investment partnerships do not receive a minimum return. We have agreed to subordinate a portion of our share of production revenues, net of corresponding production costs, to specified returns to the investor partners in the investment partnerships, typically 10% per year for the first five to seven years of distributions. Thus, our revenues from a particular partnership will decrease if we do not achieve the specified minimum return. We or one of our subsidiaries may be exposed to financial and other liabilities as the managing general partner in investment partnerships. We or one of our subsidiaries serves as the managing general partner of the investment partnerships and will be the managing general partner of new investment partnerships that we sponsor. As a general partner, we or one of our subsidiaries will be contingently liable for the obligations of the partnerships to the extent that partnership assets or insurance proceeds are insufficient. We have agreed to indemnify each investor partner in the investment partnerships from any liability that exceeds such partner’s share of the investment partnership’s assets. Covenants in our credit facility restrict our business in many ways. Our credit facility contains various restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt or liens or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; • pay distributions or redeem or repurchase our securities; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; • make loans, investments and acquisitions; • enter into hedging arrangements; • sell assets; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. In addition, our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders under the credit facility could elect to declare all amounts outstanding immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to 37 Table of Contents them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our credit facility. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our credit facility and our other liabilities. Our borrowings under our credit facility are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same. Economic conditions and instability in the financial markets could negatively impact our business which, in turn, could impact the cash we have to make distributions to our unitholders. Our operations are affected by the financial markets and related effects in the global financial system. The consequences of an economic recession and the effects of the financial crisis include a lower level of economic activity and increased volatility in energy prices. This may result in a decline in energy consumption and lower market prices for oil and natural gas and has previously resulted in a reduction in drilling activity in our service areas. Any of these events may adversely affect our revenues and ability to fund capital expenditures and, in the future, may impact the cash that we have available to fund our operations, pay required debt service on our credit facility and make distributions to our unitholders. Potential instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, can cause volatility in the markets and may affect our ability to raise capital and reduce the amount of cash available to fund operations. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available to us to the extent required and on acceptable terms. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could negatively impact our access to liquidity needed for our businesses and impact flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. We may be unable to execute our growth strategies, take advantage of business opportunities or to respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively impact our business. Economic situations could have an adverse impact on producers, key suppliers or other customers, or on our lenders, causing them to fail to meet their obligations. Market conditions could also impact our derivative instruments. If a counterparty is unable to perform its obligations and the derivative instrument is terminated, our cash flow and ability to pay distributions could be impacted which in turn affects the amount of distributions that we are able to make to our unitholders. The uncertainty and volatility surrounding the global financial system may have further impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict or anticipate. Our historical financial information may not be representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone public company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. Some of the historical financial information that we have included in this report may not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been an independent, stand-alone entity during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future. The general and administrative expenses reflected in the financial statements for Atlas Energy E&P Operations include an allocation for certain corporate functions historically provided by Atlas Energy. These allocations were based on what we and Atlas Energy considered to be reasonable reflections of the historical utilization levels of these services required in support of the business. We have not adjusted the historical financial statements for Atlas Energy E&P Operations to reflect changes that occurred in our cost structure and operations as a result of our transition to becoming a stand-alone public company. Therefore, the financial statements of Atlas E&P Operations and our historical financial information may not necessarily be indicative of what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows will be in the future. Estimates of the reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Underground accumulations of natural gas and oil cannot be measured in an exact way. Natural gas and oil reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of natural gas and oil and assumptions concerning future natural gas prices, production levels and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Our current estimates of our proved reserves are prepared by our internal engineers and our independent petroleum engineers. Over time, our internal engineers may make material changes to reserve estimates taking into account the results of actual drilling and production. Some of our reserve estimates were made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, which are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Also, we make certain assumptions regarding future natural gas prices, production levels and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions by actual figures could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas and oil attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows. Our standardized measure is calculated using natural gas prices that do not include financial hedges. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of natural gas and oil we ultimately recover being different from our reserve estimates. 38 Table of Contents The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on historical prices and costs. However, actual future net cash flows from our natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: • actual prices we receive for natural gas; • the amount and timing of actual production; • the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; • the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Any significant variance in our assumptions could materially affect the quantity and value of reserves, the amount of standardized measure, and our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our reserves or standardized measure may be revised downward or upward based upon production history, results of future exploitation and development activities, prevailing natural gas and oil prices and other factors. A material decline in prices paid for our production can reduce the estimated volumes of our reserves because the economic life of our wells could end sooner. Similarly, a decline in market prices for natural gas or oil may reduce our standardized measure. Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our Common Units There is not a long market history for our common units and the market price of our common units may fluctuate widely. The market price of our common units could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: • changes in securities analysts’ recommendations and their estimates of our financial performance; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, announcements and our filings with the SEC; • fluctuations in broader securities market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of natural gas and oil companies and securities of publicly traded limited partnerships and limited liability companies; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • departures of key personnel; • commencement of or involvement in litigation; • variations in our quarterly results of operations or those of other natural gas and oil companies; • variations in the amount of our quarterly cash distributions; • future issuances and sales of our units; and • changes in general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the natural gas and oil industry. 39 Table of Contents In recent years, the securities market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Future market fluctuations may result in a lower price of our common units. Sales of our common units may cause our unit price to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common units to decline. In addition, the sale of these units could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common units. Atlas Energy owns approximately 20.96 million common units, representing an approximately 43% limited partner ownership interest in us. Atlas Energy is free to sell some or all of these common units at any time. In addition, we have agreed to register under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which we refer to as the Securities Act, any sale of common units held by Atlas Energy and its affiliates. These registration rights allow Atlas Energy, our general partner and their affiliates to request registration of their common units and to include any of those units in a registration of other securities by us. If Atlas Energy and its affiliates were to sell a substantial portion of their units, it could reduce the market price of our outstanding common units. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in our common units is subject to risks. Investors may be willing to accept these risks in exchange for possibly receiving a higher rate of return than may otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly traded limited partner interests. Reduced demand for our common units resulting from investors seeking other investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations to pay the minimum quarterly distribution following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our general partner. We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserve amounts that our general partner establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders and the holders of the distribution incentive rights. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of natural gas and oil we produce; • the price at which we sell our natural gas and oil; • the level of our operating costs; • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; • the results of our hedging activities; • the level of our interest expense, which depends on the amount of our indebtedness and the interest payable on it; and • the level of our capital expenditures. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • our ability to make working capital borrowings to pay distributions; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; 40 Table of Contents • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • timing and collectability of receivables; • restrictions on distributions imposed by lenders; • payments to our general partner; and • the strength of financial markets and our ability to access capital or borrow funds. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability. The amount of cash that we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses, and we may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. We have the right to borrow to make distributions. Repayment of these borrowings will decrease cash available for future distributions, and covenants in our credit facility have restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement allows us to borrow to make distributions. We may make short term borrowings under our credit facility, which we refer to as working capital borrowings, to make distributions. The primary purpose of these borrowings would be to mitigate the effects of short term fluctuations in our working capital that would otherwise cause volatility in our quarter to quarter distributions. Our revolving credit facility restricts, among other things, our ability to incur debt and pay distributions, and requires us to comply with customary financial covenants and specified financial ratios. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any provisions of our revolving credit facility that are not cured or waived within the specified time periods, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, and we will be prohibited from making distributions to our unitholders. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our revolving credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our revolving credit facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided may be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Pursuant to our partnership agreement, Atlas Energy and our general partner receive reimbursement for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit. Payments for these services may be substantial, are not subject to any aggregate limit, and will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. If we do not pay distributions on our common units in any fiscal quarter, our unitholders are not entitled to receive distributions for such prior periods in the future. Our distributions to our unitholders are not cumulative. Consequently, if we do not pay distributions on our common units with respect to any quarter, our unitholders are not entitled to such payments in the future. With limited exceptions, our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders that own 20% or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement prohibits any person or group that owns 20% or more of our common units then outstanding, other than Atlas Energy, our general partner, their respective affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquire common units directly from us with the prior approval of our general partner, from voting on any matter. 41 Table of Contents Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. Our general partner, as the initial holder of our incentive distribution rights, has the right, at any time when it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (50.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters and the amount of each such distribution did not exceed adjusted operating surplus for such quarter, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following any reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner transfers all or a portion of our incentive distribution rights in the future, then the holder or holders of a majority of our incentive distribution rights will be entitled to exercise this reset right. If a reset election is made, then the holder of the incentive distribution rights will be entitled to receive additional common units from the partnership equal to the number of common units that would have entitled the holder of such additional common units to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that the holder of our incentive distribution rights may exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such reset. It is possible, however, that the reset right is exercised at a time when the holder is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Our unitholders who fail to furnish certain information requested by our general partner or who our general partner determines are not eligible citizens may not be entitled to receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation and their common units will be subject to redemption. We have the right to redeem all of the units of any holder that is not an eligible citizen if we are or become subject to federal, state, or local laws or regulations that, in the determination of our general partner, create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property in which we have an interest because of the nationality, citizenship or other related status of any limited partner. Our general partner may require any limited partner or transferee to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or related status. If a limited partner fails to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or other related status within a reasonable period after a request for the information or our general partner determines after receipt of the information that the limited partner is not an eligible citizen, the limited partner may be treated as a non-citizen assignee. A non-citizen assignee does not have the right to direct the voting of his units and may not receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation. Furthermore, we have the right to redeem all of the common units of any holder that is not an eligible citizen or fails to furnish the requested information. Common units held by persons who are non-taxpaying assignees will be subject to the possibility of redemption. If our general partner determines that our not being treated as an association taxable as a corporation or otherwise taxable as an entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, coupled with the tax status (or lack of proof thereof) of one or more of our limited partners, has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our assets or generate revenues from our assets, then our general partner may adopt such amendments to our partnership agreement as it determines are necessary or appropriate to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status of our limited partners (and their owners, to the extent relevant) and permit us to redeem the units held by any person whose tax status has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rate that can be charged to customers by our subsidiaries or who fails to comply with the procedures instituted by our general partner to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its board of directors. 42 Table of Contents Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our common unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Common unitholders do not elect our general partner or the members of its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by Atlas Energy, the owner of 100% of the equity of our general partner. The board of directors of Atlas Energy’s general partner is elected by the unitholders of Atlas Energy. Furthermore, the vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of all outstanding common units is required to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations on the ability of holders of our common units to influence the management of the company, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished. Our general partner’s interest in us and the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party without the consent of our unitholders, either before March 13, 2022 in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets, or after March 13, 2022 under any circumstances if such transfer is otherwise in compliance with our partnership agreement. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of our general partner from transferring all or a portion of their ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with their own choices and thereby influence the decisions made by the board of directors and officers. In addition, our general partner may transfer all or a portion of its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of the incentive distribution rights. We may issue an unlimited number of additional units, including units that are senior to the common units, without unitholder approval, which would dilute common unitholders’ ownership interests. Any additional issuance will not dilute the general partner interest in us. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional units that we may issue at any time without the approval of our common unitholders. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance by us of additional units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our common unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of our common units may decline. Moreover, the issuance of additional common units will not dilute the holder of our class A units. The class A units represent a 2% general partner interest in us, and the holder of such class A units will be entitled to 2% of our cash distributions without any obligation to make future capital contributions to us. The 2% sharing ratio of the class A units will not be reduced if we issue additional common units in the future. Because the 2% sharing ratio will not be reduced if we issue additional common units, and in order to ensure that each class A unit represents the same percentage economic interest in us as one common unit, if we issue additional common units, we will also issue to our general partner, for no additional consideration and without any requirement to make a capital contribution, an additional number of class A units so that the total number of outstanding class A units after such issuance equals 2% of the sum of the total number of common units and class A units after such issuance. In addition, the payment of distributions on any additional units may increase the risk that we will not be able to make distributions at our prior per unit distribution levels. To the extent new units are senior to our common units, their issuance will increase the uncertainty of the payment of distributions on our common units. As a limited partnership, we qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE rules. 43 Table of Contents Under the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) listing standards, a limited partnership is exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including: • the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consists of independent directors; • the requirement that we have a nominating/governance committee that is comprised entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/governance and compensation committees. We utilize some of the foregoing exemptions from the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE listing standards. As a result, neither we or our general partner have a nominating/governance committee or a compensation committee, and our general partner does not have a majority of independent directors. In addition, NYSE rules requiring that shareholder approval be obtained prior to certain issuances of equity securities do not apply to limited partnerships. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than two-thirds of the outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (1) the highest cash price paid by our general partner or any of its affiliates for any limited partner interests of the class purchased within the 90 days preceding the date on which our general partner first mails notice of its election to purchase those limited partner interests; and (2) the average of the daily closing prices of the limited partner interests of such class over the 20 trading days preceding the date three days before the date of the mailing of the exercise notice for such call right. You may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your common units. The credit and risk profile of our general partner and its owner could adversely affect our credit ratings and profile. The credit and risk profiles of our general partner and its owner may be factors in credit evaluations of us as a publicly traded limited partnership due to the significant influence of our general partner and indirect owner over our business activities, including our cash distributions, acquisition strategy and business risk profile. Another factor that may be considered is the financial condition of our general partner and its owners, including the degree of their financial leverage and their dependence on cash flow from us to service their indebtedness. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. You could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if, among other potential reasons: • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitutes “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them, or other liabilities with respect to ownership of our units. 44 Table of Contents Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17–607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (“Delaware Act”), we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to us are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of common units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to such purchaser of common units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, taxes paid, if any, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter that affects us. We are currently treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, which requires that 90% or more of our gross income for every taxable year consist of qualifying income, as defined in Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. Qualifying income is defined as income and gains derived from the exploration, development, mining or production, processing, refining, transportation (including pipelines transporting gas, oil, or products thereof), or the marketing of any mineral or natural resource (including fertilizer, geothermal energy and timber). We may not meet this requirement or current law may change so as to cause, in either event, us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise be subject to federal income tax. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss, deduction or credit would flow through to you. Because a tax may be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be reduced. Therefore, our treatment as a corporation could result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders and therefore result in a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law or our business may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to you would be reduced. Our limited partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state or local or foreign income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the incentive distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Unitholders will be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from their share of our taxable income. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”) and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be 45 Table of Contents unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. A successful IRS contest of the U.S. federal income tax positions we take may harm the market for our common units, and the costs of any contest will reduce cash available for distribution. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other matter that affects us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and a court may disagree with some or all of those positions. Any contest with the IRS may lower the price at which our common units trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders. We treat each holder of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units held. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could reduce the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing U.S. Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could reduce the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a unitholder sells their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the adjusted tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions and the allocation of losses, including depreciation deductions, to the unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to them, which decreased the tax basis in their common units, will, in effect, become taxable income to them if the common units are sold at a price greater than their tax basis in those common units, even if the price is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to the unitholder. We will be considered to have terminated for tax purposes due to a sale or exchange of 50% or more of our interests within a 12-month period. We will be considered to have terminated for tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. A constructive termination results in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and in the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, may result in more than 12 months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. A constructive termination occurring on a date other than December 31 will result in us filing two tax returns, and unitholders receiving two Schedule K-1s, for one fiscal year and the cost of the preparation of these returns will be borne by all unitholders. Unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We do business and own assets in Colorado, Indiana, Michigan, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, West Virginia and Oklahoma. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may do business or own assets in other states in the future. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all U.S. federal, foreign, state and local tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. The IRS may challenge our tax treatment related to transfers of units, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new U.S. Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. 46 Table of Contents We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between us and our public unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to such assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, including the valuation of our assets, we make many of the fair market value estimates of our assets ourselves using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of our common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain on the sale of common units by our unitholders and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to the tax returns of our unitholders without the benefit of additional deductions. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. Risks Relating to Our Ongoing Relationship with Atlas Energy and its Affiliates Atlas Energy owns common units representing an approximate 43% limited partner ownership interest and all of the equity of our general partner, which, in turn, owns class A units representing a 2% general partner interest. Therefore, Atlas Energy has effective control of us. Atlas Energy owns approximately 20.96 million common units representing an approximate 43% limited partner ownership interest and all of the equity of our general partner, which, in turn, owns class A units representing a 2% general partner interest in us. Accordingly, Atlas Energy possesses a substantial vote on all matters submitted to a vote of our unitholders, and will elect the board of directors of our general partner. The board of directors of Atlas Energy’s general partner is elected by the unitholders of Atlas Energy. As long as Atlas Energy owns our general partner, it will be able to control, subject to our partnership agreement and applicable law, all matters affecting us, including: • any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; • any determinations with respect to mergers, business combinations or disposition of assets; • our financing; • compensation and benefit programs and other human resources policy decisions; 47 Table of Contents • the payment of dividends on our units; and • determinations with respect to our tax returns. Atlas Energy owns and controls our general partner, which has the authority to conduct our business and manage our operations. Atlas Energy may have conflicts of interest, which may permit it to favor its own interests to our unitholders’ detriment. Atlas Energy owns and controls our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise between Atlas Energy and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner is permitted to favor its own interests and the interests of its owners over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Atlas Energy or any of its affiliates to pursue a business strategy that favors us or to refer any business opportunity to us; • our general partner is expressly allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Atlas Energy, in resolving conflicts of interest; • our partnership agreement eliminates any fiduciary duties owed by our general partner to us, and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of our drilling programs and related capital expenditures, asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and reserves; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditure and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion or investment capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. Our partnership agreement does not set a limit on the amount of maintenance capital expenditures that our general partner may estimate; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates; • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; • our general partner decides which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; and • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Atlas Energy and other affiliates of our general partner may compete with us. This could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to replace reserves, results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership interest in us. Affiliates of our general partner, however, are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. Atlas Energy and its affiliates may make investments and acquisitions that may include entities or assets that we would have been interested in acquiring. For example, Atlas Energy retained its rights of way in Ohio, which can be used to develop natural gas and oil assets for development and production purposes. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, Atlas Energy has the right to have access to our gathering assets in Ohio for any natural gas and oil production on commercially prevailing market terms to be agreed between Atlas Energy and us. Although we have the right to use such rights of way retained by Atlas Energy, as well as to use our own gathering assets in Ohio, Atlas Energy could 48 Table of Contents use these rights of way, together with the right to have access to our gathering assets, to compete with us in the Ohio area. In addition, members of management of Atlas Energy, some of whom may also participate in the management of our general partner, have substantial experience in the natural gas and oil business. Therefore, Atlas Energy and its affiliates may compete with us for investment opportunities and Atlas Energy and its affiliates may own an interest in entities that compete with us. Our partnership agreement provides that: • subject to any contractual provision to the contrary, Atlas Energy has no obligation to refrain from engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business we do, doing business with any of our customers or employing or otherwise engaging any of our officers or employees; • neither Atlas Energy nor any of its officers or directors will be liable to us or to our unitholders for breach of any duty, including any fiduciary duty, by reason of any of these activities; and • none of our general partner, its affiliates or any of their respective directors or officers is under any duty to present any corporate opportunity to us which may be a corporate opportunity for such person and us, and such person will not be liable to us or our unitholders for breach of any duty, including any fiduciary duty, by reason of the fact that such person pursues or acquires that corporate opportunity for itself, directs that corporate opportunity to another person or does not present that corporate opportunity to us. Accordingly, Atlas Energy and its affiliates may acquire, develop or dispose of additional natural gas or oil properties or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or develop any of those assets. These factors may make it difficult for us to compete with Atlas Energy and its affiliates with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates. As a result, competition from these entities could adversely impact our results of operations and accordingly cash available for distribution. This also may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us. Certain of our officers and directors are subject to non-competition agreements that may effectively restrict our ability to expand our business in the Marcellus Shale. Edward Cohen, who serves as our Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board of our general partner and Chief Executive Officer and President of Atlas Energy, and Jonathan Cohen, who serves as our Vice Chairman of the Board and Executive Chairman of the Board of Atlas Energy, are each parties to a non-competition and non-solicitation agreement with Chevron Corporation. These agreements restrict each such individual, until February 17, 2014, from engaging in any capacity (whether as officer, director, owner, partner, stockholder, investor, consultant, principal, agent, employee, coventurer or otherwise) in a business engaged in the exploration, development or production of hydrocarbons in certain designated counties within the States of Pennsylvania, West Virginia and New York, and from engaging in certain solicitation activities with respect to oil and gas leases, customers, suppliers and contractors of Atlas Energy, Inc., Atlas Energy’s predecessor which we refer to as AEI. The restrictions are subject to certain limited exceptions, including exceptions permitting Jonathan Cohen and Edward Cohen in certain circumstances to engage in the businesses conducted by Atlas Energy (including with respect to the operation of the assets Atlas Energy acquired from AEI in February 2011) and Atlas Pipeline Partners, L.P. Due to the roles of Jonathan Cohen and Edward Cohen at Atlas Energy and at our general partner, our ability to expand our business in the Marcellus Shale may be limited. Certain of the officers and directors of our general partner may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions with Atlas Energy. Certain of the directors and officers of our general partner, including our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Vice Chairman, President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, have positions with Atlas Energy or its general partner. In addition, such directors and officers may own Atlas Energy common units, options to purchase Atlas Energy common units or other Atlas Energy equity awards. The individual holdings of Atlas Energy common units, options to purchase common units of Atlas Energy or other equity awards may be significant for some of these persons compared to these persons’ total assets. Their position at Atlas Energy and the ownership of any Atlas Energy equity or equity awards creates, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these expected directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Atlas Energy than the decisions have for us. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 