ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks, which we believe are the principal risks that we face and of which we are currently aware, and all of the other information in this report. Some of the risks described below relate to our business, while others relate to our separation from Atlas Energy. Other risks relate principally to the securities markets and ownership of our limited partnership interests. Partnership interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Business If commodity prices decline significantly, our cash flow from operations will decline. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow substantially depend upon the prices and demand for natural gas and oil. The natural gas and oil markets are very volatile, and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Changes in natural gas and oil prices will have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our cash flow. Prices for natural gas and oil may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas or oil, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: Ÿ the level of domestic and foreign supply and demand; Ÿ the price and level of foreign imports; Ÿ the level of consumer product demand; Ÿ weather conditions and fluctuating and seasonal demand; Ÿ overall domestic and global economic conditions; 22 Table of Contents Ÿ political and economic conditions in natural gas and oil producing countries, including those in the Middle East and South America; Ÿ the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; Ÿ the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on natural gas and oil prices; Ÿ technological advances affecting energy consumption; Ÿ domestic and foreign governmental relations, regulations and taxation; Ÿ the impact of energy conservation efforts; Ÿ the cost, proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; and Ÿ the price and availability of alternative fuels. In the past, the prices of natural gas and oil have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2011, the NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas index price ranged from a high of $4.85 per MMBtu to a low of $2.99 per MMBtu, and West Texas Intermediate oil prices ranged from a high of $113.93 per Bbl to a low of $75.67 per Bbl. Between January 1, 2012 and March 23, 2012, the NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas index price ranged from a high of $3.10 per MMBtu to a low of $2.27 per MMBtu, and West Texas Intermediate oil prices ranged from a high of $109.77 per Bbl to a low of $96.36 per Bbl. Competition in the natural gas and oil industry is intense, which may hinder our ability to acquire natural gas and oil properties and companies and to obtain capital, contract for drilling equipment and secure trained personnel. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties and other natural gas and oil companies, attracting capital through our investment partnerships, contracting for drilling equipment and securing trained personnel. Our competitors may be able to pay more for natural gas and oil properties and drilling equipment and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Moreover, our competitors for investment capital may have better track records in their programs, lower costs or stronger relationships with participants in the oil and gas investment community than we do. All of these challenges could make it more difficult for us to execute our growth strategy. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring leasehold acreage or prospective reserves or in raising additional capital. Furthermore, competition arises not only from numerous domestic and foreign sources of natural gas and oil but also from other industries that supply alternative sources of energy. Competition is intense for the acquisition of leases considered favorable for the development of natural gas and oil in commercial quantities. Product availability and price are the principal means of competition in selling natural gas and oil. Many of our competitors possess greater financial and other resources than we do, which may enable them to identify and acquire desirable properties and market their natural gas and oil production more effectively than we can. Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment and crews, or the costs required to obtain the foregoing in a highly competitive environment, could impair our operations and results. Increased demand for drilling rigs, equipment and crews, due to increased activity by participants in our primary operating areas or otherwise, can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, drilling equipment, services and personnel. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced drilling crews and oil field equipment and services could restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations that we currently have planned. Any delay in the drilling of new wells or significant increase in drilling costs could reduce our revenues. Many of our leases are in areas that have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells. Our key project areas are located in active drilling areas in the Appalachian Basin, and many of our leases are in areas that have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling. This may inhibit our ability to find economically recoverable quantities of natural gas in these areas. 23 Table of Contents Our operations require substantial capital expenditures to increase our asset base. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our asset base will decline, which could cause our revenues to decline and affect our ability to pay distributions. The natural gas and oil industry is capital intensive. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital funds on satisfactory terms with capital raised through equity and debt offerings, cash flow from operations, bank borrowings and the investment partnerships, we may be unable to increase or maintain our inventory of properties and reserve base, or be forced to curtail drilling or other activities. This could cause our revenues to decline and diminish our ability to service any debt that we may have at such time. If we do not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, including with funds from third-party sources, we will be unable to expand our business operations, and may not generate sufficient revenue or have sufficient available cash to pay distributions on our units. Our cash distribution policy limits our ability to grow. Because we distribute our available cash rather than reinvesting it in our business, our growth may not be as significant as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. If we issue additional common units or incur debt to fund acquisitions and expansion and investment capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units or interest on that debt could increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. Significant physical effects of climatic change have the potential to damage our facilities, disrupt our production activities and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. Climate change could have an effect on the severity of weather (including hurricanes and floods), sea levels, the arability of farmland, and water availability and quality. If such effects were to occur, our exploration and production operations have the potential to be adversely affected. Potential adverse effects could include damages to our facilities from powerful winds or rising waters in low lying areas, disruption of our production activities either because of climate-related damages to our facilities or our costs of operation potentially rising from such climatic effects, less efficient or non-routine operating practices necessitated by climate effects or increased costs for insurance coverage in the aftermath of such effects. Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect effect on our financing and operations by disrupting the transportation or process-related services provided by midstream companies, service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. We may not be able to recover through insurance some or any of the damages, losses or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change. We currently sell the majority of our natural gas production to a single customer. To the extent this customer reduces the volumes of natural gas it purchases from us, or ceases to purchase natural gas from us, upon the expiration of our existing sales contracts, our revenues could be negatively affected. Certain of our subsidiaries sell gas produced in four key counties in southwest Pennsylvania to a subsidiary of Chevron Corporation pursuant to a gas marketing agreement with a term expiring in February 2014, and all of the gas produced by the wells in Michigan owned by the investment partnerships are marketed by a subsidiary of Chevron pursuant to an operating agreement between the parties. To the extent Chevron reduces the amount of natural gas it purchases from us upon the expiration of these contracts, or if the gas marketing agreement is terminated or the gas marketing services provided under the operating agreement are no longer provided, our revenues could be harmed in the event we are unable to sell to other purchasers at similar prices. An increase in the differential between the NYMEX or other benchmark prices of oil and natural gas and the wellhead price that we receive for our production could significantly reduce our cash available for distribution and adversely affect our financial condition. The prices that we receive for our oil and natural gas production sometimes reflect a discount to the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX. The difference between the benchmark price and the price that we receive is called a differential. Increases in the differential between the benchmark prices for oil and natural gas and the wellhead price that we receive could significantly reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders and adversely affect our financial condition. We use the relevant benchmark price to calculate our hedge positions, and we do not have or plan to have any commodity derivative contracts covering the amount of the basis differentials we experience in respect of our production. As such, we will be exposed to any increase in such differentials, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Some of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that may expire in the near future. As of December 31, 2011, leases covering approximately 23,781 of our 286,533 net undeveloped acres, or 8.3%, are scheduled to expire on or before December 31, 2012. An additional 15% and 9% are scheduled to expire in the years 2013 and 2014, respectively. If we are unable to renew these leases or any leases scheduled for expiration beyond their expiration date, on favorable terms, we will lose the right to develop the acreage that is covered by an expired lease and our production would decline, which would reduce our cash flows from operations. Drilling for and producing natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for natural gas can be uneconomic, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: Ÿ the high cost, shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services; Ÿ unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; Ÿ adverse weather conditions; Ÿ facility or equipment malfunctions; Ÿ title problems; Ÿ pipeline ruptures or spills; Ÿ compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; Ÿ unusual or unexpected geological formations; Ÿ formations with abnormal pressures; Ÿ injury or loss of life; Ÿ environmental accidents such as gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment or oil leaks, including groundwater contamination; Ÿ fires, blowouts, craterings and explosions; and Ÿ uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids. Any one or more of the factors discussed above could reduce or delay our receipt of drilling and production revenues, thereby reducing our earnings, and could reduce revenues in one or more of our investment partnerships, which may make it more difficult to finance our drilling operations through sponsorship of future partnerships. In addition, any of these events can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination, loss of wells and regulatory penalties. Although we maintain insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from our operations, insurance against all operational risks are not available to us. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could reduce our results of operations. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would reduce our cash flow from operations and income. Producing natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. Our ability to find and acquire additional recoverable reserves to replace current 25 Table of Contents and future production at acceptable costs depends on our generating sufficient cash flow from operations and other sources of capital, principally from the sponsorship of new investment partnerships, all of which are subject to the risks discussed elsewhere in this section. A decrease in natural gas prices could subject our oil and gas properties to a non-cash impairment loss under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Long-lived assets are reviewed for potential impairments at the lowest levels for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of other groups of assets. We test our oil and gas properties on a field-by-field basis, by determining if the historical cost of proved properties less the applicable depletion, depreciation and amortization and abandonment is less than the estimated expected undiscounted future cash flows. The expected future cash flows are estimated based on our economic interests and our plans to continue to produce and develop proved reserves. Expected future cash flow from the sale of production of reserves is calculated based on estimated future prices. We estimate prices based on current contracts in place at the impairment testing date, adjusted for basis differentials and market related information, including published future prices. The estimated future level of production is based on assumptions surrounding future levels of prices and costs, field decline rates, market demand and supply, and the economic and regulatory climates. Accordingly, further declines in the price of natural gas may cause the carrying value of our oil and gas properties to exceed the expected future cash flows, and a non-cash impairment loss would be required to be recognized in the financial statements for the difference between the estimated fair market value (as determined by discounted future cash flows) and the carrying value of the assets. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or cause us to lose money. Pricing for natural gas and oil has been volatile and unpredictable for many years. To limit exposure to changing natural gas and oil prices, we use financial and physical hedges for our production. Physical hedges are not deemed hedges for accounting purposes because they require firm delivery of natural gas and are considered normal sales of natural gas. We generally limit these arrangements to smaller quantities than those projected to be available at any delivery point. In addition, we may enter into financial hedges, which may include purchases of regulated NYMEX futures and options contracts and non-regulated over-the-counter futures contracts with qualified counterparties. The futures contracts are commitments to purchase or sell natural gas at future dates and generally cover one-month periods for up to six years in the future. These hedging arrangements may reduce, but will not eliminate, the potential effects of changing commodity prices on our cash flow from operations for the periods covered by this hedging arrangement. Furthermore, while intended to help reduce the effects of volatile commodity prices, such transactions, depending on the hedging instrument used, may limit our potential gains if commodity prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. If, among other circumstances, production is substantially less than expected, the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts or a sudden, unexpected event materially changes commodity prices, we may be exposed to the risk of financial loss. In addition, it is not always possible for us to engage in a derivative transaction that completely mitigates our exposure to commodity prices and interest rates. Our financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices and interest rates for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge transaction. Due to the accounting treatment of derivative contracts, increases in prices for natural gas, crude oil and NGLs could result in non-cash balance sheet reductions and non-cash losses in our statement of operations. With the objective of enhancing the predictability of future revenues, from time to time we enter into natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil derivative contracts. We account for these derivative contracts by applying the mark-to-market accounting treatment required for these derivative contracts. We could recognize incremental derivative liabilities between reporting periods resulting from increases or decreases in reference prices for natural gas, crude oil and NGLs, which could result in us recognizing a non-cash loss in our combined statements of operations and a consequent non-cash decrease in our equity between reporting periods. Any such decrease could be substantial. In addition, we may be required to make cash payments upon the termination of any of these derivative contracts. 26 Table of Contents Regulations promulgated by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the U.S. Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, among other provisions, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. The legislation requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. The CFTC finalized its regulations and has set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. The financial reform legislation may also require us and to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our existing or future derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts; materially alter the terms of derivative contracts; reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter; reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our derivative contracts in existence at that time; and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce or change the way we use derivative instruments as a result of the legislation or regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our combined financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. The scope and costs of the risks involved in making acquisitions may prove greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: Ÿ mistaken assumptions about revenues and costs, including synergies; Ÿ significant increases in our indebtedness and working capital requirements; Ÿ an inability to integrate successfully or timely the businesses we acquire; Ÿ the assumption of unknown liabilities; Ÿ limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; Ÿ the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; Ÿ increased demands on existing personnel; Ÿ customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses; and Ÿ the failure to realize expected growth or profitability. The scope and cost of these risks may be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Any of these factors could adversely affect our future growth. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations from any future acquisitions with our operations and in realizing all of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. The integration of previously independent operations can be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining these systems, as well as any operations we may acquire in the future, include, among other things: Ÿ operating a significantly larger combined entity; Ÿ the necessity of coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; Ÿ integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; 27 Table of Contents Ÿ consolidating operational and administrative functions; Ÿ integrating internal controls, compliance under Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters; Ÿ the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; Ÿ customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; Ÿ a significant increase in our indebtedness; and Ÿ potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. Costs incurred and liabilities assumed in connection with an acquisition and increased capital expenditures and overhead costs incurred to expand our operations could harm our business or future prospects, and result in significant decreases in our gross margin and cash flows. Properties that we acquired in the separation from Atlas Energy or afterward may not produce as projected and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. One of our growth strategies is to capitalize on opportunistic acquisitions of natural gas reserves. However, reviews of acquired properties are often incomplete because it generally is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. A detailed review of records and properties also may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, and may not permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well that we acquire. Potential problems, such as deficiencies in the mechanical integrity of equipment or environmental conditions that may require significant remedial expenditures, are not necessarily observable even when we inspect a well. Any unidentified problems could result in material liabilities and costs that negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to identify problems with an acquisition, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection or indemnity against all or part of these problems. Even if a seller agrees to provide indemnity, the indemnity may not be fully enforceable and may be limited by floors and caps on such indemnity. Federal legislation and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions or by state environmental agencies. Some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. For example, New York has imposed a de facto moratorium on the issuance of permits for high volume, horizontal hydraulic fracturing until state administered environmental studies are finalized. Public hearings on the studies and proposed regulations were held in November 2011, with the public comment period for the proposed regulations closing in January 2012. Further, Pennsylvania has adopted a variety of regulations limiting how and where fracturing can be performed. In February 2012, legislation was passed in Pennsylvania requiring, among other things, disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. Texas adopted a law in June 2011 requiring disclosure to the Railroad Commission of Texas (RCT) and the public of certain information regarding the components used in the hydraulic fracturing process. In December 2011, West Virginia enacted legislation imposing more stringent regulation of horizontal drilling. In addition to state law, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. If state, local, or municipal legal restrictions are adopted in areas where we are currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct, operations, we may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from the drilling of wells. Although the process is not generally subject to regulation at the federal level, there are certain governmental reviews either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices, and some federal regulation has taken place. The Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel as an additive under the Safe Drinking Water Act and has begun 28 Table of Contents the process of drafting guidance documents related to this newly asserted regulatory authority. In addition, legislation that would provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process could be introduced in the future. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Furthermore, a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014. In addition, the U.S. Department of Energy is conducting an investigation into practices the agency could recommend to better protect the environment from drilling using hydraulic fracturing completion methods. Also, the U.S. Department of the Interior is considering disclosure requirements or other mandates for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. Certain members of U.S. Congress have called upon the U.S. Government Accountability Office to investigate how hydraulic fracturing might adversely affect water resources, the SEC to investigate the natural gas industry and any possible misleading of investors or the public regarding the economic feasibility of pursuing natural gas deposits in shales by means of hydraulic fracturing, and the U.S. Energy Information Administration to provide a better understanding of that agency’s estimates regarding natural gas reserves, including reserves from shale formations, as well as uncertainties associated with those estimates. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could result in initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act or one or more other regulatory mechanisms. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted at the state and local level, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform hydraulic fracturing to stimulate production from dense subsurface rock formations and, in the event of local prohibitions against commercial production of natural gas, may preclude our ability to drill wells. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA or other federal agencies, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements and result in permitting delays as well as potential increases in costs. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. Recently proposed rules regulating air emissions from oil and natural gas operations could cause us to incur increased capital expenditures and operating costs. On July 28, 2011, the EPA proposed rules that would establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations. Specifically, the EPA’s proposed rule package includes New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with oil and natural gas production and processing activities. The EPA’s proposal would require the reduction of VOC emissions from oil and natural gas production facilities by mandating the use of “green completions” for hydraulic fracturing, which requires the operator to recover rather than vent the gas and natural gas liquids that come to the surface during completion of the fracturing process. The proposed rules also would establish specific requirements regarding emissions from compressors, dehydrators, storage tanks, and other production equipment. In addition, the rules would establish new leak detection requirements for natural gas processing plants. Final regulations are anticipated in the spring of 2012. Once finalized, these rules will likely require a number of modifications to our operations including the installation of new equipment. Compliance with such rules could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business. In addition, both houses of U.S. Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal is achieved. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of greenhouse gases or otherwise limits emissions of greenhouse gases from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to monitor and report on greenhouse gas emissions or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations, and such requirements also could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our services. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act that require 29 Table of Contents entities that produce certain gases to inventory, monitor and report such gases. On November 30, 2010, the EPA published a final GHG emissions reporting rule relating to natural gas processing, transmission, storage, and distribution activities, which requires reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. Additionally, in 2010, EPA issued rules to regulate GHG emissions through traditional major source construction and operating permit programs. These permitting programs require consideration of and, if deemed necessary, implementation of best available control technology to reduce GHG emissions. As a result, our operations could face additional costs for emissions control and higher costs of doing business. The third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex federal, state and other laws that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our business. The operations of the third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations that require obtaining and maintaining numerous permits, approvals and certifications from various federal, state and local government authorities. These third parties may incur substantial costs in order to comply with existing laws and regulation. If existing laws and regulations governing such third-party services are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to their operations, these changes may affect the costs that we pay for such services. Similarly, a failure to comply with such laws and regulations by the third parties on whom we rely could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our drilling and production operations require adequate sources of water to facilitate the fracturing process and the disposal of that water. If we are unable to dispose of the water we use or remove from the strata at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, our ability to produce gas commercially and in commercial quantities could be impaired. A significant portion of our natural gas extraction activity utilizes hydraulic fracturing, which results in water that must be treated and disposed of in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. Environmental regulations governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing may increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Our ability to collect and dispose of water will affect our production, and the cost of water treatment and disposal may affect our profitability. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct hydraulic fracturing or disposal of produced water, drilling fluids and other substances associated with the exploration, development and production of gas and oil. A severance tax or impact fee in Pennsylvania could materially increase our liabilities. While Pennsylvania has historically not imposed a severance tax (relating to the extraction of natural gas), with a focus on its budget deficit and the increasing exploration of the Marcellus Shale, various legislation has been proposed since 2008. In February 2012, Pennsylvania implemented an impact fee. This new law imposes an impact fee on all unconventional wells drilled in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in counties that elect to impose the fee. The fee, which changes from year to year, is based on the average annual price of natural gas as determined by the NYMEX price, as reported by the Wall Street Journal for the last trading day of each calendar month. Based upon natural gas prices for 2011, operators will pay $50,000 per unconventional horizontal well. Unconventional vertical wells will pay a fee equal to twenty percent of the horizontal well fee and the impact fee will not apply to any unconventional vertical well that produces less than 90mcf per day. The payment structure for the impact fee makes the fee due the year after an unconventional well is spudded and the fee will continue for 15 years for a horizontal well and 10 years for a vertical well. Because we handle natural gas and oil, we may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of our wells and other facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example: Ÿ the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions; Ÿ the federal Clean Water Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to spills, releases, streams, wetlands and discharges of pollutants into regulated bodies of water; Ÿ the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (which we refer to as “RCRA”) and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling and disposal of waste, including produced waters, from our facilities; and 30 Table of Contents Ÿ the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (which we refer to as “CERCLA”) and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us and Atlas Energy, Inc. (“AEI”) or at locations to which we and AEI have sent waste for disposal. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes, including RCRA, CERCLA, the federal Oil Pollution Act and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed of or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. There is an inherent risk that we and our subsidiaries may incur environmental costs and liabilities due to the nature of our and our subsidiaries’ businesses and the substances we and our subsidiaries handle. For example, an accidental release from one of our or our subsidiaries’ wells could subject us or the applicable subsidiary to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies may be enacted or adopted and could significantly increase our and our subsidiaries’ compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We or the applicable subsidiary may not be able to recover remediation costs under our respective insurance policies. We are subject to comprehensive federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could increase the cost and alter the manner or feasibility of us doing business. Our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon natural gas and oil wells. Under these laws and regulations, we could also be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects. Part of the regulatory environment in which we operate includes, in some cases, legal requirements for obtaining environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing drilling and production activities. In addition, our activities will be subject to the regulations regarding conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of natural gas we may produce and sell. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state and local authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could inhibit our ability to develop our respective properties. Additionally, the natural gas and oil regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs of compliance with these laws and regulations and, consequently, reduce our profitability. For example, Pennsylvania’s General Assembly approved legislation in February 2012 that would impose significant, costly requirements on the natural gas industry, including the imposition of increased bonding requirements and impact fees for gas wells, based on the price of natural gas and the age of the well. Furthermore, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage to larger companies in our industry who can spread these additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating staff. We may not be able to continue to raise funds through our investment partnerships at desired levels, which may in turn restrict our ability to maintain our drilling activity at recent levels. We sponsor limited and general partnerships to finance certain of our development drilling activities. Accordingly, the amount of development activities that we will undertake depends in large part upon our ability to obtain investor subscriptions to invest in these partnerships. Prior to our separation from Atlas Energy, it raised $141.9 million, $149.3 million and $353.4 million in calendar years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In the future, we may not be successful in raising funds through these investment partnerships at the same levels that it experienced, and we also may not be successful in increasing the amount of funds we raise. Our ability to raise funds through our investment partnerships depends in large part upon the perception of investors of their potential return on their investment and their tax benefits from investing in them, which perception is influenced significantly by our historical track record of generating returns and tax benefits to the investors in our existing partnerships. 31 Table of Contents In the event that our investment partnerships do not achieve satisfactory returns on investment or the anticipated tax benefits, we may have difficulty in maintaining or increasing the level of investment partnership fundraising relative to the levels achieved by us. In this event, we may need to seek financing for our drilling activities through alternative methods, which may not be available, or which may be available only on a less attractive basis than the financing we realized through these investment partnerships, or we may determine to reduce drilling activity. Changes in tax laws may impair our ability to obtain capital funds through investment partnerships. Under current federal tax laws, there are tax benefits to investing in investment partnerships, including deductions for intangible drilling costs and depletion deductions. However, the current administration has proposed, among other tax changes, the repeal of certain oil and gas tax benefits, including the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance, the election to expense intangible drilling costs, the passive activity exception for working interests and the marginal production tax credit. These proposals may or may not be adopted. The repeal of these oil and gas tax benefits, if it happens, would result in a substantial decrease in tax benefits associated with an investment in our investment partnerships. These or other changes to federal tax law may make investment in our investment partnerships less attractive and, thus, reduce our ability to obtain funding from this significant source of capital funds. Fee-based revenues may decline if we are unsuccessful in sponsoring new investment partnerships. Our fee-based revenues will be based on the number of investment partnerships we sponsor and the number of partnerships and wells we manage or operate. If we are unsuccessful in sponsoring future investment partnerships, our fee-based revenues may decline. Our revenues may decrease if investors in our investment partnerships do not receive a minimum return. We have agreed to subordinate a portion of our share of production revenues, net of corresponding production costs, to specified returns to the investor partners in the investment partnerships, typically 10% per year for the first five to seven years of distributions. Thus, our revenues from a particular partnership will decrease if we do not achieve the specified minimum return. We or one of our subsidiaries may be exposed to financial and other liabilities as the managing general partner in investment partnerships. We or one of our subsidiaries serves as the managing general partner of the investment partnerships and will be the managing general partner of new investment partnerships that we sponsor. As a general partner, we or one of our subsidiaries will be contingently liable for the obligations of the partnerships to the extent that partnership assets or insurance proceeds are insufficient. We have agreed to indemnify each investor partner in the investment partnerships from any liability that exceeds such partner’s share of the investment partnership’s assets. Certain of our officers and directors are subject to non-competition agreements that may effectively restrict our ability to expand our business in the Marcellus Shale. Edward Cohen, who serves as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Atlas Energy, and Jonathan Cohen, who serves as our Vice Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Board of Atlas Energy, are each parties to a non-competition and non-solicitation agreement with Chevron Corporation. These agreements restrict each such individual, until February 17, 2014, from engaging in any capacity (whether as officer, director, owner, partner, stockholder, investor, consultant, principal, agent, employee, coventurer or otherwise) in a business engaged in the exploration, development or production of hydrocarbons in certain designated counties within the States of Pennsylvania, West Virginia and New York, and from engaging in certain solicitation activities with respect to oil and gas leases, customers, suppliers and contractors of AEI. The foregoing restrictions are subject to certain limited exceptions, including exceptions permitting Jonathan Cohen and Edward Cohen in certain circumstances to engage in the businesses conducted by Atlas Energy (including with respect to the operation of the assets Atlas Energy acquired from AEI in February 2011) and Atlas Pipeline Partners, L.P. The non-competition agreements also prohibit Edward Cohen and Jonathan Cohen, until February 17, 2013, from soliciting for employment, or hiring, any person who was employed by AEI before its merger with Chevron and became an employee of AEI or Chevron after the merger, subject to certain limited exceptions. Due to the roles of Jonathan Cohen and Edward Cohen at Atlas Energy and at our general partner, our ability to expand our business in the Marcellus Shale may be limited. 32 Table of Contents Covenants in our credit facility restrict our business in many ways. Our credit facility contains various restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: Ÿ incur additional debt or liens or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; Ÿ pay distributions or redeem or repurchase our securities; Ÿ prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; Ÿ make loans, investments and acquisitions; Ÿ enter into hedging arrangements; Ÿ sell assets; Ÿ enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and Ÿ consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. In addition, our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our credit facility. If the lenders under our credit facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our credit facility and our other liabilities. Our borrowings under our credit facility are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. Economic conditions and instability in the financial markets could negatively impact our business which, in turn, could impact the cash we have to make distributions to our unitholders. Our operations are affected by the financial markets and related effects in the global financial system. The consequences of an economic recession and the effects of the financial crisis include a lower level of economic activity and increased volatility in energy prices. This may result in a decline in energy consumption and lower market prices for oil and natural gas and has previously resulted in a reduction in drilling activity in our service areas. Any of these events may adversely affect our revenues and ability to fund capital expenditures and, in the future, may impact the cash that we have available to fund our operations, pay required debt service on our credit facility and make distributions to our unitholders. Potential instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, can cause volatility in the markets and may affect our ability to raise capital and reduce the amount of cash available to fund operations. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available to us to the extent required and on acceptable terms. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could negatively impact our access to liquidity needed for our businesses and impact flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. We may be unable to execute our growth strategies, take advantage of business opportunities or to respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively impact our business. Economic situations could have an adverse impact on producers, key suppliers or other customers, or on our lenders, causing them to fail to meet their obligations. Market conditions could also impact our derivative instruments. If a counterparty is unable to perform its obligations and the derivative instrument is terminated, our cash flow and ability to pay distributions could be impacted which in turn affects the amount of distributions that we are able to make to our unitholders. The uncertainty and volatility surrounding the global financial system may have further impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict or anticipate. Our historical financial information may not be representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone public company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical financial information that we have included in this report may not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been an independent, stand-alone entity during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future. The general and administrative expenses reflected in the 33 Table of Contents financial statements for Atlas Energy E&P Operations include an allocation for certain corporate functions historically provided by Atlas Energy. These allocations were based on what we and Atlas Energy considered to be reasonable reflections of the historical utilization levels of these services required in support of the business. We have not adjusted the historical financial statements for Atlas Energy E&P Operations to reflect changes that will occur in our cost structure and operations as a result of our transition to becoming a stand-alone public company. Therefore, the financial statements of Atlas E&P Operations and our historical financial information may not necessarily be indicative of what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows will be in the future. We had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as a result of the fact that the financial statements for Atlas Energy E&P Operations that we previously filed did not include general and administrative expense for periods prior to February 17, 2011. If a material weakness persists, our ability to accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected. Atlas Energy previously filed financial statements for Atlas Energy E&P Operations that did not include general and administrative expenses for periods prior to February 17, 2011, the date of the acquisition of the Transferred Business. Atlas Energy had filed such financial statements without such expenses because the Transferred Business was not managed as a separate business segment, and the prior filings stated that such general and administrative expenses were not included for this reason. We have revised the financial statements for Atlas Energy E&P Operations to include general and administrative expenses for periods prior to February 17, 2011 based on allocations that we and Atlas Energy believe reflect the approximate general and administrative costs of the underlying business segments. The failure to include these general and administrative expenses in the prior filing is considered a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. We have taken steps to correct the failure leading to this material weakness. However, we may identify additional deficiencies in the financial reporting process that could give rise to significant deficiencies or other material weaknesses, and we cannot assure you that there will not be future material weaknesses. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our units. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our units. Estimates of the reserves we received from Atlas Energy are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Underground accumulations of natural gas and oil cannot be measured in an exact way. Natural gas and oil reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of natural gas and oil and assumptions concerning future natural gas prices, production levels and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Our current estimates of our proved reserves were prepared by Atlas Energy’s independent petroleum engineers. Over time, Atlas Energy’s or our internal engineers may make material changes to reserve estimates taking into account the results of actual drilling and production. Some of Atlas Energy’s reserve estimates were made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, which are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Also, they make certain assumptions regarding future natural gas prices, production levels and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions by actual figures could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas and oil attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows. Atlas Energy’s and standardized measure are calculated using natural gas prices that do not include financial hedges. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of natural gas and oil we ultimately recover being different from our reserve estimates. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves 34 Table of Contents on historical prices and costs. However, actual future net cash flows from our natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: — actual prices we receive for natural gas; — the amount and timing of actual production; — the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; — the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; — changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Any significant variance in our assumptions could materially affect the quantity and value of reserves, the amount of standardized measure, and our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our reserves or standardized measure may be revised downward or upward based upon production history, results of future exploitation and development activities, prevailing natural gas and oil prices and other factors. A material decline in prices paid for our production can reduce the estimated volumes of our reserves because the economic life of our wells could end sooner. Similarly, a decline in market prices for natural gas or oil may reduce our standardized measure. We may have been able to receive better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms provided in our agreements with Atlas Energy. The agreements related to our separation from Atlas Energy, including the separation and distribution agreement and other agreements, were negotiated in the context of our separation from Atlas Energy while we were still part of Atlas Energy and, accordingly, may not reflect terms that would have been reached between unaffiliated parties. The terms of the agreements that we negotiated in the context of our separation relate to, among other things, allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between Atlas Energy and us as well as certain ongoing arrangements between Atlas Energy and us. If these agreements had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties, they might have been more favorable to us. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the separation. We may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the separation, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. These expected benefits include the following: — The separation will facilitate deeper understanding by investors of the different businesses of Atlas Energy and our company, allowing investors to more transparently value the merits, performance and future prospects of each company, which could increase overall unitholder value; — By creating a publicly traded class of equity securities that can be offered as consideration in acquisition transactions, the separation will create an acquisition currency in the form of units that will enable us to purchase developed and undeveloped resources to accelerate growth of the natural gas and oil development and production and partnership management businesses without diluting Atlas Energy unitholders’ participation in growth at Atlas Pipeline Partners L.P., a publicly traded partnership the general partner of which is owned by Atlas Energy. Current industry trends have created a significant opportunity for us to grow through the acquisition of assets being sold to close the funding gap created by the success of low-risk unconventional resources; — The separation of the two companies will enhance the ability of both us and Atlas Energy to gain access to financing because the financial community will be able to focus separately on each of the respective businesses, which have different investment and business characteristics and different potentials for financial returns; — The separation and distribution will enable us to provide employees dedicated to our business with equity-based incentives linked solely to our company, as opposed to equity of Atlas Energy; 35 Table of Contents — If we are able to increase our distributions, Atlas Energy unitholders could benefit from both Atlas Energy’s indirect general partner interest in us as well as its incentive distribution rights; — The separation will provide enhanced liquidity to holders of Atlas Energy common units, who will hold two separate publicly traded securities that they may seek to retain or monetize; and — Investors will have a more targeted investment opportunity by having equity in two separate companies with different investment and business characteristics, including opportunities for growth, capital structure, business model, and financial returns. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons. There also can be no assurance that the separation will not adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our Common Units There is not a long market history for our common units and the market price of our common units may fluctuate widely. The market price of our common units could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: — the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units after the spin-off or changes in financial estimates by analysts; — changes in securities analysts’ recommendations and their estimates of our financial performance; — the public’s reaction to our press releases, announcements and our filings with the SEC; — fluctuations in broader securities market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of natural gas and oil companies and securities of publicly traded limited partnerships and limited liability companies; — changes in market valuations of similar companies; — departures of key personnel; — commencement of or involvement in litigation; — variations in our quarterly results of operations or those of other natural gas and oil companies; — variations in the amount of our quarterly cash distributions; — future issuances and sales of our units; and — changes in general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the natural gas and oil industry. In recent years, the securities market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Future market fluctuations may result in a lower price of our common units. Sales of our common units may cause our unit price to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common units to decline. In addition, the sale of these units could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common units. Atlas Energy owns approximately 20.96 million common units, representing an approximately 78.4% limited partner interest in us. Atlas Energy is free to sell some or all of these common units at any time. In addition, we have agreed to register under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which we refer to as the Securities Act, any sale of common units held by Atlas Energy and its affiliates. These registration rights allow Atlas Energy, our general partner and their affiliates to request registration of their common units and to include any of those units in a registration of other securities by us. If Atlas Energy and its affiliates were to sell a substantial portion of their units, it could reduce the market price of our outstanding common units. 36 Table of Contents An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in our common units is subject to risks. Investors may be willing to accept these risks in exchange for possibly receiving a higher rate of return than may otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly traded limited partner interests. Reduced demand for our common units resulting from investors seeking other investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations to pay the minimum quarterly distribution following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our general partner. We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserve amounts that our general partner establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders and the holders of the distribution incentive rights. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: — the amount of natural gas and oil we produce; — the price at which we sell our natural gas and oil; — the level of our operating costs; — our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; — the results of our hedging activities; — the level of our interest expense, which depends on the amount of our indebtedness and the interest payable on it; and — the level of our capital expenditures. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: — our ability to make working capital borrowings to pay distributions; — the cost of acquisitions, if any; — fluctuations in our working capital needs; — timing and collectability of receivables; — restrictions on distributions imposed by lenders; — payments to our general partner; and — the strength of financial markets and our ability to access capital or borrow funds. 37 Table of Contents The amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability. The amount of cash that we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses, and we may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. We have the right to borrow to make distributions. Repayment of these borrowings will decrease cash available for future distributions, and covenants in our credit facility have restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement allows us to borrow to make distributions. We may make short term borrowings under our credit facility, which we refer to as working capital borrowings, to make distributions. The primary purpose of these borrowings would be to mitigate the effects of short term fluctuations in our working capital that would otherwise cause volatility in our quarter to quarter distributions. Our revolving credit facility restricts, among other things, our ability to incur debt and pay distributions, and requires us to comply with customary financial covenants and specified financial ratios. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any provisions of our revolving credit facility that are not cured or waived within the specified time periods, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, and we will be prohibited from making distributions to our unitholders. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our revolving credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our revolving credit facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided may be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Pursuant to our partnership agreement, Atlas Energy and our general partner will receive reimbursement for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit. Payments for these services will be substantial, are not subject to any aggregate limit, and will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. If we do not pay distributions on our common units in any fiscal quarter, our unitholders are not entitled to receive distributions for such prior periods in the future. Our distributions to our unitholders are not cumulative. Consequently, if we do not pay distributions on our common units with respect to any quarter, our unitholders are not entitled to such payments in the future. Unitholders may have limited liquidity for their common units, and a trading market may not develop for the common units. There are approximately 5.24 million of our publicly traded common units outstanding (excluding the common units held by Atlas Energy). We do not know the extent to which investor interest will lead to the development of a trading market or how liquid that market might be. You may not be able to resell your common units at a price you find attractive, or at all. Additionally, the lack of liquidity may result in wide bid-ask spreads, contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of the common units and limit the number of investors who are able to buy the units. With limited exceptions, our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders that own 20% or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement prohibits any person or group that owns 20% or more of our common units then outstanding, other than Atlas Energy, our general partner, their respective affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquire common units directly from us with the prior approval of our general partner, from voting on any matter. 38 Table of Contents Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. Our general partner, as the initial holder of our incentive distribution rights, has the right, at any time when it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (50.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters and the amount of each such distribution did not exceed adjusted operating surplus for such quarter, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following any reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner transfers all or a portion of our incentive distribution rights in the future, then the holder or holders of a majority of our incentive distribution rights will be entitled to exercise this reset right. If a reset election is made, then the holder of the incentive distribution rights will be entitled to receive additional common units from the partnership equal to the number of common units that would have entitled the holder of such additional common units to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that the holder of our incentive distribution rights may exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such reset. It is possible, however, that the reset right is exercised at a time when the holder is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Our unitholders who fail to furnish certain information requested by our general partner or who our general partner determines are not eligible citizens may not be entitled to receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation and their common units will be subject to redemption. We have the right to redeem all of the units of any holder that is not an eligible citizen if we are or become subject to federal, state, or local laws or regulations that, in the determination of our general partner, create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property in which we have an interest because of the nationality, citizenship or other related status of any limited partner. Our general partner may require any limited partner or transferee to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or related status. If a limited partner fails to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or other related status within a reasonable period after a request for the information or our general partner determines after receipt of the information that the limited partner is not an eligible citizen, the limited partner may be treated as a non-citizen assignee. A non-citizen assignee does not have the right to direct the voting of his units and may not receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation. Furthermore, we have the right to redeem all of the common units of any holder that is not an eligible citizen or fails to furnish the requested information. Common units held by persons who are non-taxpaying assignees will be subject to the possibility of redemption. If our general partner determines that our not being treated as an association taxable as a corporation or otherwise taxable as an entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, coupled with the tax status (or lack of proof thereof) of one or more of our limited partners, has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our assets or generate revenues from our assets, then our general partner may adopt such amendments to our partnership agreement as it determines are necessary or appropriate to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status of our limited partners (and their owners, to the extent relevant) and permit us to redeem the units held by any person whose tax status has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rate that can be charged to customers by our subsidiaries, then our general partner may adopt such amendments to our partnership agreement as it determines are necessary or appropriate to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status of our limited partners (and their owners, to the extent relevant) and permit us to redeem the units held by any person whose tax status has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rate that can be charged to customers by our subsidiaries or who fails to comply with the procedures instituted by our general partner to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its board of directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our common unitholders will have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Common unitholders will not elect our general partner or the members of its board of directors, and will have no right to elect 39 Table of Contents our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by Atlas Energy, the owner of 100% of the equity of our general partner. The board of directors of Atlas Energy’s general partner will be elected by the unitholders of Atlas Energy. Furthermore, the vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of all outstanding common units is required to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations on the ability of holders of our common units to influence the management of the company, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished. Our general partner’s interest in us and the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party without the consent of our unitholders, either before the tenth anniversary of the date of the distribution in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets, or after the tenth anniversary of the date of the distribution under any circumstances if such transfer is otherwise in compliance with our partnership agreement. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of our general partner from transferring all or a portion of their ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with their own choices and thereby influence the decisions made by the board of directors and officers. In addition, our general partner may transfer all or a portion of its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of the incentive distribution rights. We may issue an unlimited number of additional units, including units that are senior to the common units, without unitholder approval, which would dilute common unitholders’ ownership interests. Any additional issuance will not dilute the general partner interest in us. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional units that we may issue at any time without the approval of our common unitholders. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance by us of additional units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: — our common unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; — the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; — the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; — the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and — the market price of our common units may decline. Moreover, the issuance of additional common units will not dilute the holder of our class A units. The class A units represent a 2% general partner interest in us, and the holder of such class A units will be entitled to 2% of our cash distributions without any obligation to make future capital contributions to us. The 2% sharing ratio of the class A units will not be reduced if we issue additional common units in the future. Because the 2% sharing ratio will not be reduced if we issue additional common units, and in order to ensure that each class A unit represents the same percentage economic interest in us as one common unit, if we issue additional common units, we will also issue to our general partner, for no additional consideration and without any requirement to make a capital contribution, an additional number of class A units so that the total number of outstanding class A units after such issuance equals 2% of the sum of the total number of common units and class A units after such issuance. In addition, the payment of distributions on any additional units may increase the risk that we will not be able to make distributions at our prior per unit distribution levels. To the extent new units are senior to our common units, their issuance will increase the uncertainty of the payment of distributions on our common units. 40 Table of Contents As a limited partnership, we qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE rules. Under the NYSE listing standards, a limited partnership is exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including: — the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consists of independent directors; — the requirement that we have a nominating/governance committee that is comprised entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; — the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and — the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/governance and compensation committees. We utilize some of the foregoing exemptions from the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE listing standards. As a result, neither we or our general partner have a nominating/governance committee or a compensation committee, and our general partner does not have a majority of independent directors. In addition, NYSE rules requiring that shareholder approval be obtained prior to certain issuances of equity securities do not apply to limited partnerships. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than two-thirds of the outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (1) the highest cash price paid by our general partner or any of its affiliates for any limited partner interests of the class purchased within the 90 days preceding the date on which our general partner first mails notice of its election to purchase those limited partner interests; and (2) the average of the daily closing prices of the limited partner interests of such class over the 20 trading days preceding the date three days before the date of the mailing of the exercise notice for such call right. Atlas Energy owns approximately 20.96 million common units, which represents 80.0% of the outstanding common units and an approximately 78.4% limited partner interest in us. As a result, our general partner has the right to exercise this limited call right. Therefore, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your common units. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. You could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if, among other potential reasons: — a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or — your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitutes “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them, or other liabilities with respect to ownership of our units. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17–607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, or the Delaware Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to us are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated 41 Table of Contents Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of common units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to such purchaser of common units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, taxes paid, if any, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter that affects us. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss, deduction or credit would flow through to you. Because a tax may be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be reduced. Therefore, our treatment as a corporation could result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders and therefore result in a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law or our business may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to you would be reduced. Our limited partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state or local or foreign income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the incentive distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Unitholders will be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from their share of our taxable income. A successful IRS contest of the U.S. federal income tax positions we take may harm the market for our common units, and the costs of any contest will reduce cash available for distribution. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other matter that affects us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and a court may disagree with some or all of those positions. Any contest with the IRS may lower the price at which our common units trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders. We will treat each holder of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units held. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could reduce the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing U.S. Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could reduce the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. 42 Table of Contents Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a unitholder sells their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the adjusted tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions and the allocation of losses, including depreciation deductions, to the unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to them, which decreased the tax basis in their common units, will, in effect, become taxable income to them if the common units are sold at a price greater than their tax basis in those common units, even if the price is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to the unitholder. We will be considered to have terminated for tax purposes due to a sale or exchange of 50% or more of our interests within a 12-month period. We will be considered to have terminated for tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. A constructive termination results in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and in the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, may result in more than 12 months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. A constructive termination occurring on a date other than December 31 will result in us filing two tax returns, and unitholders receiving two Schedule K-1s, for one fiscal year and the cost of the preparation of these returns will be borne by all unitholders. Unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We do business and own assets in Colorado, Indiana, Michigan, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and West Virginia. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may do business or own assets in other states in the future. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all U.S. federal, foreign, state and local tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. The IRS may challenge our tax treatment related to transfers of units, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new U.S. Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between us and our public unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to such assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, including the valuation of our assets, we make many of the fair market value estimates of our assets ourselves using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of our common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain on the sale of common units by our unitholders and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to the tax returns of our unitholders without the benefit of additional deductions. 43 Table of Contents A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. Risks Relating to Our Ongoing Relationship with Atlas Energy and its Affiliates Atlas Energy owns common units representing an approximate 78.4% limited partner interest and all of the equity of our general partner, which, in turn, owns class A units representing a 2% general partner interest. Therefore, Atlas Energy has effective control of us. Atlas Energy owns approximately 20.96 million common units representing an approximate 78.4% limited partner interest and all of the equity of Atlas Resource Partners GP, LLC, our general partner, which, in turn, owns 534,694 class A units representing a 2% general partner interest in us. Accordingly, Atlas Energy possesses a controlling vote on all matters submitted to a vote of our unitholders, and will elect the board of directors of our general partner. The board of directors of Atlas Energy’s general partner is elected by the unitholders of Atlas Energy. As long as Atlas Energy owns our general partner, it will be able to control, subject to our partnership agreement and applicable law, all matters affecting us, including: — any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; — any determinations with respect to mergers, business combinations or disposition of assets; — our financing; — compensation and benefit programs and other human resources policy decisions; — changes to the agreements relating to our separation from Atlas Energy; — changes to any other agreements that may adversely affect us; — the payment of dividends on our units; and — determinations with respect to our tax returns. In addition, as long as Atlas Energy owns a controlling interest in us, it will be able to approve or disapprove matters submitted to members for a vote irrespective of the vote of other holders of common units. Atlas Energy is free to sell our general partner and/or a substantial portion of our common units to a third party, and, if it does so, our unitholders may not realize any change-of-control premium on our common units, and we may become subject to the control of a presently unknown third party. Our partnership agreement does not restrict Atlas Energy from transferring all or a portion of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. In addition, Atlas Energy could sell a majority of our outstanding common units to a third party. The ability of Atlas Energy to sell our general partner and/or a majority of our common units to a third party, with no requirement for a concurrent offer to be made to acquire all of the common units that are publicly traded, could prevent our unitholders from realizing any change-of-control premium on their common units. In addition, a presently unknown third party could acquire control of us as a result of such a sale. Such a third party may have conflicts of interest with other unitholders. Atlas Energy’s voting control may discourage transactions involving a change of control of our partnership, including transactions in which unitholders might otherwise receive a premium for their units over the then-current market price. 44 Table of Contents Atlas Energy owns and controls our general partner, which has the authority to conduct our business and manage our operations. Atlas Energy may have conflicts of interest, which may permit it to favor its own interests to our unitholders’ detriment. Atlas Energy owns and controls our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise between Atlas Energy and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner is permitted to favor its own interests and the interests of its owners over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: — neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Atlas Energy or any of its affiliates to pursue a business strategy that favors us or to refer any business opportunity to us; — our general partner is expressly allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Atlas Energy, in resolving conflicts of interest; — our partnership agreement eliminates any fiduciary duties owed by our general partner to us, and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; — except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; — our general partner determines the amount and timing of our drilling programs and related capital expenditures, asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; — our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations; — our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; — our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditure and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion or investment capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. Our partnership agreement does not set a limit on the amount of maintenance capital expenditures that our general partner may estimate. — our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates; — our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; — our general partner decides which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; — the owner of our general partner, as the holder of more than two-thirds of the outstanding common units, may exercise its right to purchase all of the common units not owned by it; and — our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Our partnership agreement eliminates our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate any fiduciary standards to which our general partner, its officers and directors, and its affiliates could otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. Instead, our general partner is accountable to us and our unitholders pursuant to the contractual standards set forth in our partnership agreement. In addition, the directors and officers of our general partner have a duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owner, 45 Table of Contents which is Atlas Energy, pursuant to the terms of Atlas Energy’s limited partnership agreement. Our general partner and its affiliates may make a number of decisions either in their individual capacities, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, or otherwise free of fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders. This entitles our general partner and its affiliates to consider only the interests and factors that they desire, and they have no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include: — how to allocate business opportunities among us and its affiliates; — whether or not to exercise its limited call right; — how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns; — whether or not to exercise its registration rights; — whether to elect to reset target distribution levels; and — whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of us or amendment to our partnership agreement. By accepting or purchasing a common unit, a unitholder agrees to be bound by the provisions of the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above and, pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, is treated as having consented to various actions contemplated in our partnership agreement and conflicts of interest that might otherwise be considered a breach of fiduciary or other duties under Delaware law. Atlas Energy and other affiliates of our general partner may compete with us. This could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to replace reserves, results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership interest in us. Affiliates of our general partner, however, are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. Atlas Energy and its affiliates may make investments and acquisitions that may include entities or assets that we would have been interested in acquiring. For example, Atlas Energy retained its rights of way in Ohio, which can be used to develop natural gas and oil assets for development and production purposes. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, Atlas Energy has the right to have access to our gathering assets in Ohio for any natural gas and oil production on commercially prevailing market terms to be agreed between Atlas Energy and us. Although we have the right to use such rights of way retained by Atlas Energy, as well as to use our own gathering assets in Ohio, Atlas Energy could use these rights of way, together with the right to have access to our gathering assets, to compete with us in the Ohio area. In addition, members of management of Atlas Energy, some of whom may also participate in the management of our general partner, have substantial experience in the natural gas and oil business. Therefore, Atlas Energy and its affiliates may compete with us for investment opportunities and Atlas Energy and its affiliates may own an interest in entities that compete with us. Our partnership agreement provides that: — subject to any contractual provision to the contrary, Atlas Energy has no obligation to refrain from engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business we do, doing business with any of our customers or employing or otherwise engaging any of our officers or employees; — neither Atlas Energy nor any of its officers or directors will be liable to us or to our unitholders for breach of any duty, including any fiduciary duty, by reason of any of these activities; and — none of our general partner, its affiliates or any of their respective directors or officers is under any duty to present any corporate opportunity to us which may be a corporate opportunity for such person and us, and such person will not be liable to us or our unitholders for breach of any duty, including any fiduciary duty, by reason of the fact that such person pursues or acquires that corporate opportunity for itself, directs that corporate opportunity to another person or does not present that corporate opportunity to us. Accordingly, Atlas Energy and its affiliates may acquire, develop or dispose of additional natural gas or oil properties or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or develop any of those assets. 46 Table of Contents These factors may make it difficult for us to compete with Atlas Energy and its affiliates with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates. As a result, competition from these entities could adversely impact our results of operations and accordingly cash available for distribution. This also may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our general partner. Our partnership agreement contains provisions restricting the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner or its affiliates, including its owner, officers and directors. For example, our partnership agreement: — provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner, and its officers and directors, are required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, and will not be subject to any other or different standard (including fiduciary standards) imposed by Delaware law or any other law, rule or regulation or at equity; — provides that our general partner, and its officers and directors, will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed that the decision was not adverse to our interests; — provides that our general partner, its owner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and — any action by our general partner with respect to a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest between us or our limited partners, on the one hand, and our general partner and its affiliates (including Atlas Energy and its affiliates), on the other hand, will be deemed to be approved by all of our unitholders, and will not constitute a breach of our partnership agreement, if the action is either: 1. approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; 2. approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates; 3. on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or 4. fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in subclauses (3) and (4) above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Certain of the officers and directors of our general partner may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions with Atlas Energy. Certain of the directors and officers of our general partner, including our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, have positions with Atlas Energy or its general partner. In addition, such directors and officers may own Atlas Energy common units, options to purchase Atlas Energy common units or other Atlas Energy equity awards. The individual holdings of Atlas Energy common units, options to purchase common units of Atlas Energy or other equity awards may be significant for some of these persons compared to these persons’ total assets. Their position at Atlas Energy and the ownership of any Atlas Energy equity or equity awards creates, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these expected directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Atlas Energy than the decisions have for us. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 