Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC. Any of these risks could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition and our prospects. In addition, risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Business If we cannot keep pace with rapid developments and change in our industry and provide new services to our clients, the use of our services could decline, reducing our revenues. The electronic payments market in which we compete is subject to rapid and significant changes. This market is characterized by rapid technological change, new product and service introductions, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs and the entrance of non-traditional competitors. In order to remain competitive, we are continually involved in a number of projects to develop new services or compete with these new market entrants, including ecommerce services, the development of mobile phone payment applications, prepaid card offerings, and other new offerings emerging in the electronic payments industry. These projects carry risks, such as cost overruns, delays in delivery, performance problems and lack of customer acceptance. In the electronic payments industry these risks are acute. Any delay in the delivery of new services or the failure to differentiate our services or to accurately predict and address market demand could render our services less desirable, or even obsolete, to our clients. Furthermore, even though the market for alternative payment processing services is evolving, it may not continue to develop rapidly enough for us to recover the costs we have incurred in developing new services targeted at this market. For example, “EMV” is a credit and debit card authentication methodology that both Visa and MasterCard are mandating that U.S. processors be able to support beginning in 2013. It will require us to invest significant resources and man-hours to develop and implement. We are not certain if or when our merchants or our financial institution customers will use or accept the methodology and/or whether we will be able to recoup our costs associated with the development and support of this methodology. In addition, the services we deliver are designed to process very complex transactions and provide reports and other information on those transactions, all at very high volumes and processing speeds. Any failure to deliver an effective and secure service or any performance issue that arises with a new service could result in significant processing or reporting errors or other losses. As a result of these factors, our development efforts could result in increased costs and/or we could also experience a loss in business that could reduce our earnings or could cause a loss of revenue if promised new services are not timely delivered to our clients or do not perform as anticipated. We also rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of, and access to new technologies. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to develop, adapt to or access technological changes or evolving industry standards on a timely and cost effective basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, our competitors may have the ability to devote more financial and operational resources than we can to the development of new technologies and services, including ecommerce and mobile payment processing services, that provide improved operating functionality and features to their existing service offerings. If successful, their development efforts could render our services less desirable to clients, resulting in the loss of clients or a reduction in the fees we could generate from our offerings.The payment processing industry is highly competitive, and we compete with certain firms that are larger and that have greater financial resources. Such competition could adversely affect the transaction and other fees we receive from merchants and financial institutions, and as a result, our margins, business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for payment processing services is highly competitive. Other providers of payment processing services have established a sizable market share in the small and mid-sized merchant and financial institution processing and servicing sector, as well as servicing large merchants and financial institutions, which are the markets in which we are principally focused. We also face competition from non-traditional payment processors that have significant financial resources. Our growth will depend on a combination of the continued growth of electronic payments and our ability to increase our market share. The weakness of the current economic recovery could cause future growth of electronic payments to slow compared to historical rates of growth.23 Table of Contents Our competitors include financial institutions, subsidiaries of financial institutions and well-established payment processing companies, including Bank of America Merchant Services, Chase Paymentech Solutions, Elavon Inc. (a subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp), First Data Corporation, Global Payments, Inc., Heartland Payment Systems, Inc. and WorldPay US, Inc. in our Merchant Services segment, and Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., First Data Corporation, Fiserv, Inc., Total System Services, Inc. and Visa Debit Processing Service in our Financial Institution Services segment. With respect to our Financial Institutions Services segment, in addition to competition with direct competitors, we also compete with the capabilities of many larger potential clients that have either historically developed their key payment processing applications in-house, or have recently moved such application in-house, and therefore weigh whether they should develop these capabilities in-house or acquire them from a third party. Our competitors that are financial institutions or are affiliated with financial institutions may not incur the sponsorship costs we incur for registration with the payment networks. Many of our competitors also have substantially greater financial, technological and marketing resources than we have. Accordingly, these competitors may be able to offer more attractive fees to our current and prospective clients, or especially with respect to our financial institution clients, other services that we do not offer. Competition may influence the fees we receive. If competition causes us to reduce the fees we charge, we will have to aggressively control our costs in order to maintain our profit margins. Competition could also result in a loss of existing clients, and greater difficulty attracting new clients, which we may not be able to do. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we are facing new competition emerging from non-traditional competitors offering alternative payment methods, such as PayPal and Google. These non-traditional competitors have significant financial resources and robust networks and are highly regarded by consumers. If these non-traditional competitors gain a greater share of total electronic payments transactions, it could also have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unauthorized disclosure of data, whether through cybersecurity breaches, computer viruses or otherwise, could expose us to liability, protracted and costly litigation and damage our reputation. We are responsible for certain third parties under Visa, MasterCard and other payment network rules and regulations, including merchants, ISOs, third party service providers and other agents, which we refer to collectively as associated participants. We and certain of our associated participants process, store and/or transmit sensitive data, such as names, addresses, social security numbers, credit or debit card numbers, driver’s license numbers and bank account numbers, and we have ultimate liability to the payment networks and member financial institutions that register us with Visa, MasterCard and other payment networks for our failure or the failure of our associated participants to protect this data in accordance with payment network requirements. The loss of merchant or cardholder data by us or our associated participants could result in significant fines and sanctions by the payment networks or governmental bodies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.These concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the Internet. Computer viruses can be distributed and spread rapidly over the Internet and could infiltrate our systems, which might disrupt our delivery of services and make them unavailable. In addition, a significant cybersecurity breach could result in payment networks prohibiting us from processing transactions on their networks or the loss of our financial institution sponsorship that facilitates our participation in the payment networks. We and our associated participants have been in the past and could be in the future, subject to breaches of security by hackers. In such circumstances, our encryption of data and other protective measures have not prevented and may not prevent unauthorized access. Although we have not incurred material losses or liabilities as a result of those breaches, a future breach of our system or that of one of our associated participants may subject us to material losses or liability, including payment network fines and assessments and claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated credit, debit or card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. A misuse of such data or a cybersecurity breach could harm our reputation and deter clients from using electronic payments generally and our services specifically, increase our operating expenses in order to correct the breaches or failures, expose us to uninsured liability, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, subject us to lawsuits, result in the imposition of material penalties and fines under state and federal laws or by the payment networks, and adversely affect our continued payment network registration and financial institution sponsorship. We cannot assure you that there are written agreements in place with every associated participant or that such written agreements will prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure of data or allow us to seek reimbursement from associated participants. Any such unauthorized use or disclosure of data could result in protracted and costly litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.24 Table of Contents Our systems and our third party providers’ systems may fail due to factors beyond our control, which could interrupt our service, cause us to lose business and increase our costs. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of numerous systems, including our computer systems, software, data centers and telecommunications networks, as well as the systems of third parties. Our systems and operations or those of our third party providers, could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. Defects in our systems or those of third parties, errors or delays in the processing of payment transactions, telecommunications failures or other difficulties could result in: •loss of revenues;•loss of clients;•loss of merchant and cardholder data;•fines imposed by payment network associations;•harm to our business or reputation resulting from negative publicity;•exposure to fraud losses or other liabilities; •additional operating and development costs; and/or•diversion of technical and other resources.We may not be able to continue to expand our share of the existing payment processing markets or expand into new markets which would inhibit our ability to grow and increase our profitability. Our future growth and profitability depend, in part, upon our continued expansion within the markets in which we currently operate, the further expansion of these markets, the emergence of other markets for payment processing, and our ability to penetrate these markets. Future growth and profitability of our business will depend upon our ability to penetrate other markets for payment processing. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition, investment and partnership or joint venture candidates in the future, and if we do, they may not provide us with the benefits we anticipated. Once completed, investments, partnerships and joint ventures may not realize the value that we expect. Our expansion into new markets is also dependent upon our ability to apply our existing technology or to develop new applications to meet the particular service needs of each new market. We may not have adequate financial or technological resources to develop effective and secure services or distribution channels that will satisfy the demands of these new markets. If we fail to expand into new and existing payment processing markets, we may not be able to continue to grow our revenues and earnings. Furthermore, in response to market developments, we may expand into new geographical markets and foreign countries in which we do not currently have any operating experience. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully expand in such markets or internationally due to our lack of experience and the multitude of risks associated with global operations or lack of appropriate regulatory approval. Any acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. Acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures effected through our subsidiaries are part of our growth strategy. We evaluate, and expect in the future to evaluate potential strategic acquisitions of and partnerships or joint ventures with complementary businesses, services or technologies. We may not be successful in identifying acquisition, partnership and joint venture candidates. In addition, we may not be able to successfully finance or integrate any businesses, services or technologies that we acquire or with which we form a partnership or joint venture. For instance, we may not be able to successfully integrate the recently acquired NPC platforms into our existing platforms. Furthermore, the integration of any acquisition, including our recent acquisition of Litle, may divert management’s time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. Certain partnerships and joint ventures we make may prevent us from competing for certain clients or in certain lines of business. We may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenue. As a subsidiary of a bank holding company, Fifth Third Bancorp, for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, or the BHC Act, we may conduct only activities authorized under the BHC Act for a bank holding company or a financial holding company, and as a 25 Table of Contentssubsidiary of a bank, Fifth Third Bank, for purposes of relevant federal and state banking laws, we may conduct only activities authorized under such laws. These activities and restrictions may limit our ability to acquire other businesses or enter into other strategic transactions. In addition, in connection with any acquisitions, we must comply with state and federal antitrust requirements. It is possible that perceived or actual violations of these requirements could give rise to regulatory enforcement action or result in us not receiving all necessary approvals in order to complete a desired acquisition. To the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. To the extent we pay the purchase price with proceeds from the incurrence of debt, it would increase our already high level of indebtedness and could negatively affect our liquidity and restrict our operations. Our competitors may be willing or able to pay more than us for acquisitions, which may cause us to lose certain acquisitions that we would otherwise desire to complete. In addition, pursuant to the Fifth Third Bank consent rights in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the Amended and Restated Vantiv Holding Limited Liability Company Agreement, Fifth Third Bank’s approval is required for acquisitions and incurrences of indebtedness by us based on certain thresholds. We cannot ensure that any acquisition, partnership or joint venture we make will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa, MasterCard or other payment networks, those payment networks could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations through our financial institution sponsors. Fines could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and if these registrations are terminated, we may not be able to conduct our business. A significant source of our revenue comes from processing transactions through the Visa, MasterCard and other payment networks. The payment networks routinely update and modify their requirements. Changes in the requirements may impact our ongoing cost of doing business and we may not, in every circumstance, be able to pass through such costs to our clients or associated participants. Furthermore, if we do not comply with the payment network requirements, the payment networks could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations which allow us to process transactions on their networks. On occasion, we have received notices of non-compliance and fines, which have typically related to excessive chargebacks by a merchant or data security failures on the part of a merchant. If we are unable to recover fines from or pass through costs to our merchants or other associated participants, we would experience a financial loss. The termination of our registration, or any changes in the payment network rules that would impair our registration, could require us to stop providing payment network services to the Visa, MasterCard or other payment networks, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in payment network rules or standards could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to provide our transaction processing services, we are registered through our bank partnerships with the Visa, MasterCard and other payment networks as service providers for member institutions. As such, we and many of our clients are subject to card association and payment network rules that could subject us or our clients to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or payment networks for certain acts or omissions by us or our associated participants. On occasion, we have received notices of non-compliance and fines, which have typically related to excessive chargebacks by a merchant or data security failures on the part of a merchant. If we are unable to recover fines from our merchants, we would experience a financial loss. Payment network rules are established and changed from time to time by each payment network as they may determine in their sole discretion and with or without advance notice to their participants. Payment networks generally establish their rules to allocate responsibilities among the payment networks’ participants and generally structure and change such rules for any number of reasons, including as a result of changes in the regulatory environment, to maintain or attract new participants or to serve their own strategic initiatives. In some cases, payment networks compete with us and their ability to modify and enhance their rules in their sole discretion may provide them an advantage in selling or developing their own services that may compete directly or indirectly with our services. The termination of our member registration or our status as a certified service provider, or any changes in card association or other payment network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of the rules or standards, that increase our cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to or through our clients, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot pass increases from payment networks including interchange, assessment, transaction and other fees along to our merchants, our operating margins will be reduced. We pay interchange and other fees set by the payment networks to the card issuing financial institution and the payment networks for each transaction we process. From time to time, the payment networks increase the interchange fees and other fees that they charge payment processors and the financial institution sponsors. At their sole discretion, our financial 26 Table of Contentsinstitution sponsors have the right to pass any increases in interchange and other fees on to us and they have consistently done so in the past. We are generally permitted under the contracts into which we enter, and in the past we have been able to, pass these fee increases along to our merchants through corresponding increases in our processing fees. However, if we are unable to pass through these and other fees in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We rely on financial institution sponsors, which have substantial discretion with respect to certain elements of our business practices, and financial institution clearing service providers, in order to process electronic payment transactions. If these sponsorships or clearing services are terminated and we are unable to secure new bank sponsors or financial institutions, we will not be able to conduct our business. Because we are not a bank, we are not eligible for membership in the Visa, MasterCard or other payment networks and are, therefore, unable to directly access the payment networks, which are required to process transactions. The Visa, MasterCard and other payment network operating regulations require us to be sponsored by a member bank in order to process electronic payment transactions. We are currently registered with the Visa, MasterCard and other payment networks through Fifth Third Bank, which has maintained that registration since we were established as a separate entity in 2009. Our wholly-owned subsidiary NPC Group, Inc. is currently registered with the Visa, MasterCard and other payment networks through First National Bank of Omaha which is currently scheduled to expire in December 2013, when we plan to consolidate our registration sponsorship with Fifth Third Bank. Litle is currently registered through Wells Fargo Bank and Fifth Third Bank. Our current agreement with Fifth Third Bank expires in June 2019. Furthermore, our agreements with our financial institution sponsors give them substantial discretion in approving certain aspects of our business practices, including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for merchants and the terms of our agreements with merchants. Our financial institution sponsors’ discretionary actions under these agreements could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on various financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. If our sponsorships or clearing services agreements are terminated and we are unable to secure another bank sponsor or clearing service provider, we will not be able to process Visa, MasterCard and other payment network transactions or settle transactions which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased merchant, ISO or referral partner attrition could cause our revenues to decline. We experience attrition in merchant credit, debit or prepaid card processing volume resulting from several factors, including business closures, transfers of merchants’ accounts to our competitors and account closures that we initiate due to heightened credit risks relating to contract breaches by merchants or a reduction in same store sales. Our ISO and referral partner channels, which purchase and resell our electronic payments services to their own portfolios of merchant customers, are strong contributors to our revenue growth in our Merchant Services segment. If an ISO or referral partner switches to another transaction processor, shuts down or becomes insolvent, we will no longer receive new merchant referrals from the ISO or referral partner, and we risk losing existing merchants that were originally enrolled by the ISO or referral partner. NPC, which was acquired in 2010, has higher rates of attrition due to the makeup of its customer base, which primarily consists of small and mid-sized merchants. We cannot predict the level of attrition in the future and our revenues could decline as a result of higher than expected attrition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not successfully renew or renegotiate our agreements with our clients or ISOs, our business will suffer. A significant amount of our revenue is derived under contracts with clients and ISOs. Consolidation among financial institutions and merchants has resulted in an increasingly concentrated client base. The financial position of our clients and ISOs and their willingness to pay for our services are affected by general market conditions, competitive pressures and operating margins within their respective industries. Contract renewal or renegotiation time presents our clients and ISOs with the opportunity to consider other providers. The loss or renegotiation of our contracts with existing clients or ISOs or a significant decline in the number of transactions we process for them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to economic and political risk, the business cycles and credit risk of our clients and the overall level of consumer, business and government spending, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The electronic payments industry depends heavily on the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer 27 Table of Contentsdiscretionary income or changes in consumer purchasing habits. A sustained deterioration in general economic conditions, particularly in the United States, or increases in interest rates may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions made using electronic payments. A reduction in the amount of consumer spending could result in a decrease in our revenue and profits. If cardholders of our financial institution clients make fewer transactions with their cards, our merchants make fewer sales of their products and services using electronic payments or people spend less money per transaction, we will have fewer transactions to process at lower dollar amounts, resulting in lower revenue. A further weakening in the economy could have a negative impact on our clients, as well as their customers who purchase products and services using our payment processing systems, which could, in turn, negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the recessionary environment disproportionately affects some of the discretionary market segments that represent a larger portion of our payment processing volume. In addition, a further weakening in the economy could force retailers to close, resulting in exposure to potential credit losses and future transaction declines. Furthermore, credit card issuers have been reducing credit limits, closing accounts, and more selective with respect to whom they issue credit cards. We also have a certain amount of fixed and semi-fixed costs, including rent, debt service, processing contractual minimums and salaries, which could limit our ability to quickly adjust costs and respond to changes in our business and the economy. Changes in economic conditions could also adversely impact our future revenues and profits and cause a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a recessionary economic environment could affect our merchants through a higher rate of bankruptcy filings, resulting in lower revenues and earnings for us. Our merchants are liable for any charges properly reversed by the card issuer on behalf of the cardholder. Our associated participants are also liable for any fines, or penalties, that may be assessed by any payment networks. In the event that we are not able to collect such amounts from the associated participants, due to fraud, breach of contract, insolvency, bankruptcy or any other reason, we may be liable for any such charges. Furthermore, in the event of a closure of a merchant, we are unlikely to receive our fees for any transactions processed by that merchant in its final months of operation, all of which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We incur liability when our merchants refuse or cannot reimburse us for chargebacks resolved in favor of their customers, fees, fines or other assessments we incur from the payment networks. We cannot accurately anticipate these liabilities, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event a dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is not resolved in favor of the merchant, the transaction is normally charged back to the merchant and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. If we are unable to collect such amounts from the merchant’s account or reserve account (if applicable), or if the merchant refuses or is unable, due to closure, bankruptcy or other reasons, to reimburse us for a chargeback, we may bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. The risk of chargebacks is typically greater with those merchants that promise future delivery of goods and services rather than delivering goods or rendering services at the time of payment. We may experience significant losses from chargebacks in the future. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our merchants could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Fraud by merchants or others could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face potential liability for fraudulent electronic payment transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others. Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant or other party knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit credit, debit or prepaid card, card number or other credentials to record a false sales transaction, processes an invalid card, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting and fraud. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud would increase our chargeback liability or other liability. Increases in chargebacks or other liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A decline in the use of credit, debit or prepaid cards as a payment mechanism for consumers or adverse developments with respect to the payment processing industry in general could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If consumers do not continue to use credit, debit or prepaid cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, credit, debit and prepaid cards which is adverse to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In response to rules implementing the 28 Table of ContentsDurbin Amendment, financial institutions may charge their customers additional fees for the use of debit cards. If such fees result in decreased use of debit cards by cardholders, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, on November 29, 2012, the court preliminary approved a definitive class settlement agreement to resolve the plaintiff’s claims in the U.S. merchant class multi-district interchange litigation against Visa, MasterCard and the named member banks. Among other terms, the settlement agreement provides for the modification of Visa and MasterCard’s rules to allow retailers to impose a surcharge on credit card transactions at the point of sale under certain conditions. This provision or other provisions in the final settlement agreement if finally approved may result in decreased use of credit cards or have other adverse impacts that are not readily known and that we may not know for some time. We believe future growth in the use of credit, debit and prepaid cards and other electronic payments will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of services offered to consumers and businesses. In order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to use electronic payment methods including, credit, debit and prepaid cards. Moreover, if there is an adverse development in the payments industry in general, such as new legislation or regulation that makes it more difficult for our clients to do business, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Continued consolidation in the banking and retail industries could adversely affect our growth. Historically, the banking industry has been the subject of consolidation, regardless of overall economic conditions, while the retail industry has been the subject of consolidation due to cyclical economic events. As banks and retail merchants consolidate, our ability to successfully offer our services will depend in part on whether the institutions that survive are willing to outsource their electronic payment processing to third party vendors and whether those institutions have pre-existing relationships with us or any of our competitors. Larger banks and merchants with greater transaction volumes may demand lower fees, which could result in lower revenues and earnings for us. In addition, in times of depressed economic conditions, similar to those experienced in the last few years, a higher number of financial institutions are taken over by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC. The government seizure of a potential or current financial institution customer could have a negative effect on our business, by eliminating the institution’s need for our services or by voiding any contracts we may have had in place with such institution. If Fifth Third Bank fails or is acquired by a third party, it could place certain of our material contracts at risk, decrease our revenue, and would transfer the ultimate voting power of a significant amount of our securities to a third party. If Fifth Third Bank, as one of our largest clients and provider of the services under our Clearing, Settlement and Sponsorship Agreement, Referral Agreement and Master Services Agreement, were to be placed into receivership or conservatorship, it could jeopardize our ability to generate revenue and conduct our business. Fifth Third Bank accounted for approximately 4% of our revenue during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 and provides crucial services to us. The loss of both a major client and material service provider due to a receivership or conservatorship, could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If Fifth Third Bank were to be acquired by a third party, it could affect certain of our contractual arrangements with them. For instance, in the event of a change of control or merger of Fifth Third Bank, our Clearing Settlement and Sponsorship Agreement and our Referral Agreement provide that Fifth Third Bank may assign the contract to an affiliate or successor, in which case we would not have the right to terminate the contract regardless of such assignee’s ability to perform such services. Our Master Services Agreement provides that Fifth Third Bank would be in default under the agreement upon a change of control, in which case we would have the right to terminate the agreement effective upon 60 days notice to Fifth Third Bank unless the surviving entity assumes Fifth Third Bank’s obligation and the level of fees paid to us pursuant to the Master Services Agreement remains equal or greater than fees paid to us prior to the change of control. In addition, the acquiring company may choose to terminate the terms of such contracts, requiring us to litigate if we believe such termination is not pursuant to contract terms, and find alternative clients, counterparties or sponsorships. The added expense of litigation and the inability to find suitable substitute clients or counterparties in a timely manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, such an acquisition would place in the hands of the acquiring third party the voting power of Fifth Third Bank’s stock ownership in Vantiv, Inc. (including any shares of Class A common stock that may be issued in exchange for Fifth Third Bank’s Class B units in Vantiv Holding) and, in some circumstances, certain of Fifth Third Bank’s consent rights in Vantiv, Inc. and Vantiv Holding. We may not have a historical relationship with the acquiring party, and the acquiring party may be a competitor of ours or provide many of the same services that we provide. The acquiring party may vote its shares of our common stock or units or exercise its consent rights in a manner adverse to us and our other stockholders. 29 Table of ContentsOur risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risks. We operate in a rapidly changing industry, and we have experienced significant change in the past three years including our separation from Fifth Third Bank in June 2009, certain acquisitions and our March 2012 initial public offering and listing on the New York Stock Exchange. Accordingly, our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective to identify, monitor and manage our risks. Some of our risk evaluation methods depend upon information provided by others and public information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are otherwise inaccessible by us. In some cases, however, that information may not be accurate, complete or up-to-date. If our policies and procedures are not fully effective or we are not always successful in capturing all risks to which we are or may be exposed, we may suffer harm to our reputation or be subject to litigation or regulatory actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation, and any new laws and regulations, industry standards or revisions made to existing laws, regulations, or industry standards affecting the electronic payments industry and other industries in which we operate may have an unfavorable impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is impacted by laws and regulations that affect our industry. The number of new and proposed regulations has increased significantly, particularly pertaining to interchange fees on credit and debit card transactions, which are paid to the card issuing financial institution. In July 2010, Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, which significantly changed financial regulation. Changes affecting the payment processing industry include restricting amounts of debit card fees that certain issuing financial institutions can charge merchants and allowing merchants to set minimum dollar amounts for the acceptance of credit cards and offer discounts for different payment methods. These restrictions could negatively affect the number of debit transactions, and prices charged per transaction, which would negatively affect our business. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or the CFPB, that became operational on July 21, 2011 and will assume responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services, including consumer credit. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act created a Financial Stability Oversight Council that has the authority to determine whether non-bank financial companies, such as us, should be supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Reserve, because they aresystemically important to the U.S. financial system. Any such designation would result in increased regulatory burdens on our business. Rules released by the Federal Reserve in July 2011 to implement the so-called Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act mandate a cap on debit transaction interchange fees for card issuers with assets greater than $10 billion. The rules also contain prohibitions on network exclusivity and routing restrictions. Beginning in October 2011, (i) a card payment network may not prohibit a card issuer from contracting with any other card payment network for the processing of electronic debit transactions involving the issuer’s debit cards and (ii) card issuing financial institutions and card payment networks may not inhibit the ability of merchants to direct the routing of debit card transactions over any card payment networks that can process the transactions. Since April 2012, most debit card issuers have been required to enable at least two unaffiliated card payment networks on each debit card. The interchange fee cap has the potential to alter the type or volume of card based transactions that we process on behalf of our clients. These new regulations could result in the need for us to make capital investments to modify our services to facilitate our existing clients’ and potential clients’ compliance and reduce the fees we are able to charge our clients. These new regulations also could result in greater pricing transparency and increased price-based competition leading to lower margins and higher rates of client attrition. Furthermore, the requirements of the new regulations and the timing of their effective dates could result in changes in our clients’ business practices that may alter their delivery of their products and services to consumers and the timing of their investment decisions, which could change the demand for our services as well as alter the type or volume of transactions that we process on behalf of our clients. In addition, the Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure Act of 2009, or CARD Act, created new requirements applicable to credit card issuers. The CARD Act, along with the Federal Reserve’s amended Regulation E, created new requirements applicable to certain prepaid cards. In the future, we may have to obtain state licenses to expand our distribution network for prepaid cards, which licenses we may not be able to obtain. If we fail or are unable to comply with these requirements, our clients (or in certain instances, we) could be subject to the imposition of fines, civil liability (and/or in the case of willful and deliberate non-compliance, criminal liability) which may impact our ability to offer our credit issuer processing services, prepaid or other related services which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.All persons engaged in commerce, including, but not limited to, us and our merchant and financial institution customers are subject to Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices, or 30 Table of ContentsUDAP. In addition, there are other laws, rules and or regulations, including the Telemarketing Sales Act, that may directly impact the activities of our merchant customers and in some cases may subject us, as the merchant's payment processor, to investigations, fees, fines and disgorgement of funds in the event we are deemed to have aided and abetted or otherwise provided the means and instrumentalities to facilitate the illegal activities of the merchant through our payment processing services. Various federal and state regulatory enforcement agencies including the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and the states' attorneys general have authority to take action against nonbanks that engage in UDAP or violate other laws, rules and regulations and to the extent we are processing payments for a merchant that may be in violation of laws, rules and regulations, we may be subject to enforcement actions and as a result may incur losses and liabilities that may impact our business. Furthermore, on July 26, 2011, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or FinCEN, issued a final rule regarding the applicability of the Bank Secrecy Act’s regulations to “prepaid access” products and services. This rulemaking clarifies the anti-money laundering obligations for entities engaged in the provision and sale of prepaid services such as prepaid cards. We have registered with FinCEN as a “money services business—provider of prepaid access” in accordance with the rule. Notwithstanding previously implemented anti-money laundering procedures pursuant to various contractual obligations, the rule increases our regulatory risks and, as with other regulatory requirements, violations of the rule could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Separately, the Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 included an amendment to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, that requires information returns to be made for each calendar year by merchant acquiring entities and third-party settlement organizations with respect to payments made in settlement of payment card transactions and third-party payment network transactions occurring in that calendar year. This requirement to make information returns applies to returns for calendar years beginning after December 31, 2010. Reportable transactions are also subject to backup withholding requirements. We could be liable for penalties if our information return is not in compliance with the new regulations. In addition, these new regulations will require us to incur additional costs to modify our systems so that we may provide compliant services. The overall impact of these regulations on us is difficult to estimate, in part because certain regulations need to be adopted by the CFPB with respect to consumer financial products and services and regulations have only recently been adopted by the Federal Reserve with respect to certain interchange fees and in part because such regulations have only recently taken effect. These and other laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even an inadvertent failure to comply with laws and regulations, as well as rapidly evolving social expectations of corporate fairness, could damage our business or our reputation. Governmental regulations designed to protect or limit access to consumer information could adversely affect our ability to effectively provide our services to merchants. Governmental bodies in the United States and abroad have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, laws and regulations restricting the transfer of, and requiring safeguarding of, non-public personal information. For example, in the United States, all financial institutions must undertake certain steps to ensure the privacy and security of consumer financial information. While our operations are subject to certain provisions of these privacy laws, we have limited our use of consumer information solely to providing services to other businesses and financial institutions. In connection with providing services to our clients, we are required by regulations and contracts with our merchants and financial institution clients to provide assurances regarding the confidentiality and security of non-public consumer information. These contracts require periodic audits by independent companies regarding our compliance with industry standards and also allow for similar audits regarding best practices established by regulatory guidelines. The compliance standards relate to our infrastructure, components and operational procedures designed to safeguard the confidentiality and security of non-public consumer personal information shared by our clients with us. Our ability to maintain compliance with these standards and satisfy these audits will affect our ability to attract and maintain business in the future. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings. In addition, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients. If more restrictive privacy laws or rules are adopted by authorities in the future on the federal or state level, our compliance costs may increase, our opportunities for growth may be curtailed by our compliance capabilities or reputational harm and our potential liability for security breaches may increase, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations, or becoming subject to additional U.S., state or local taxes that cannot be passed through to our clients, could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to tax laws in each jurisdiction where we do business. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could decrease the amount of revenues we receive, the value of tax loss carryforwards and tax credits recorded on our balance sheet 31 Table of Contentsand the amount of our cash flow, and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, companies in the payment processing industry, including us, may become subject to taxation in various tax jurisdictions. Taxing jurisdictions have not yet adopted uniform positions on this topic. If we are required to pay additional taxes and are unable to pass the tax expense through to our clients, our costs would increase and our net income would be reduced, and it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For purposes of federal and state banking laws, we are deemed to be controlled by Fifth Third Bank and Fifth Third Bancorp, and as such we are subject to supervision and examination by federal and state banking regulators, and our activities are limited to those permissible for Fifth Third Bank and Fifth Third Bancorp. We may therefore be restricted from engaging in new activities or businesses, whether organically or by acquisition. We are also subject to supervision and examination by the new Federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. As of December 31, 2012, Fifth Third Bank owned an equity interest representing approximately 33.1% of the voting and economic equity interest of Vantiv Holding and 18.5% of the voting interest in Vantiv, Inc. Because of the size of Fifth Third Bank’s beneficial voting and economic interest, we and Vantiv Holding are deemed to be controlled by Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank and are therefore considered to be a subsidiary of Fifth Third Bancorp for purposes of the BHC Act and of Fifth Third Bank for purposes of relevant federal and state banking laws. We are therefore subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions, or the ODFI. We will remain subject to regulation and examination until Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank are no longer deemed to control us for bank regulatory purposes, which we do not have the ability to control and which will not occur until Fifth Third Bank has significantly reduced its equity interest in us, as well as certain other factors. The BHC Act and relevant federal and state banking laws and regulations include different thresholds for regulatory purposes to define control as compared to GAAP requirements, and as a result, Fifth Third Bancorp does not consolidate Vantiv Holding for financial reporting purposes. For financial reporting purposes, we have consolidated the results of Vantiv Holding due to our ownership of a majority voting ownership interest in Vantiv Holding. For as long as we are deemed to be controlled by Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank for bank regulatory purposes, we are subject to regulation, supervision, examination and potential enforcement action by the Federal Reserve and the ODFI and to most banking laws, regulations and orders that apply to Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank. Any restrictions placed on Fifth Third Bancorp or Fifth Third Bank as a result of any supervisory actions may also restrict us or our activities in certain circumstances, even if these actions are unrelated to our conduct or business. Further, as long as we are deemed to be controlled by Fifth Third Bancorp for bank regulatory purposes, we may conduct only activities that are authorized under the BHC Act for a bank holding company, or a BHC, which include activities so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto, or for a financial holding company, or FHC, which include activities that are financial in nature or incidental to financial activities. In addition, as long as Fifth Third Bank holds an equity interest in us or Vantiv Holding, directly or indirectly, our activities are further limited to those that are permissible for Fifth Third Bank to engage in directly, which include activities that are part of, or incidental to, the business of banking. Accordingly, we have agreed to a covenant in the Amended and Restated Vantiv Holding Limited Liability Company Agreement that is intended to facilitate compliance by Fifth Third Bank with relevant federal and state banking laws. In addition, new activities that we may wish to commence in the future may not be permissible for us under the BHC Act or other relevant federal or state banking laws, or may require prior regulatory approvals. More generally, the Federal Reserve has broad powers to approve, deny or refuse to act upon applications or notices for us to conduct new activities, acquire or divest businesses or assets, or reconfigure existing operations.Because of the foregoing limitations, and in particular, Fifth Third Bank’s interest in us, it may be difficult for us to engage in activities abroad or invest in a non-U.S. company. We and Fifth Third Bank may seek to engage in offshore acquisitions and activities through various regulatory structures and entities, each of which will generally require prior regulatory approval. The Federal Reserve and the ODFI would therefore have substantial discretion as to whether any such entity could be formed and under what conditions it could operate. In addition to the initial filing and application requirements, because any such entity would be considered a subsidiary of Fifth Third Bank for banking law purposes, establishing and maintaining such an entity would subject Fifth Third Bank, and to a lesser extent us, to several banking law requirements and limitations. We may not receive regulatory authority to create such an entity, or, if created, we may be unable to comply with all requirements. We will need Fifth Third Bank’s cooperation to form and operate any such entity for offshore activities, and the regulatory burdens imposed upon Fifth Third Bank may be too extensive to justify its establishment or continuation. If, after the entity is formed, we or Fifth Third Bank are at any time unable to comply with any ongoing regulatory requirements, the 32 Table of ContentsFederal Reserve or ODFI may impose additional limitations or restrictions on Fifth Third Bank’s or our operations, which could potentially force us to limit the activities or dispose of the entity. As stated above, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval to establish any such entity for foreign acquisitions or to comply with all applicable requirements for such an entity. If the regulatory burdens are too severe, there can also be no assurance that Fifth Third Bank will find it acceptable to engage in offshore activities through these vehicles. In light of the foregoing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully engage in activities abroad or invest in a non-U.S. company. Any activities or other regulatory restrictions or approval requirements applicable to us as a result of our affiliation for bank regulatory purposes with Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank may inhibit our expansion into new markets or new business lines and may limit our ability to acquire other businesses or enter into other strategic transactions, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to direct supervision and examination by the CFPB because we are an affiliate of Fifth Third Bank (which is an insured depository institution with greater than $10 billion in assets) for bank regulatory purposes and because we are a service provider to insured depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or more in connection with their consumer financial products and to entities that are larger participants in markets for consumer financial products and services such as prepaid cards. The CFPB was created by the Dodd-Frank Act and will assume rulemaking authority over several enumerated federal consumer financial protection laws. It is also authorized to issue rules prohibiting unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices by persons offering consumer financial products or services and those, such as us, who are service providers to such persons. The CFPB has authority to enforce these consumer financial protection laws and rules. CFPB rules and examinations may require us to adjust our activities and may increase our compliance costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The costs and effects of pending and future litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, financial position and results of operations. We are involved in various litigation matters and from time to time may be involved in governmental or regulatory investigations or similar matters arising out of our current or future business. Our insurance or indemnities may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in pending or future litigation or similar matters under various laws. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any pending litigation or future litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully manage our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. Third parties may challenge, invalidate, circumvent, infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property, or such intellectual property may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain service offerings or other competitive harm. Others, including our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services or design around our intellectual property, and in such cases we could not assert our intellectual property rights against such parties. Further, our contractual arrangements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information or provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information. We may have to litigate to enforce or determine the scope and enforceability of our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and know-how, which is expensive, could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, aspects of our business and our services rely on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties on reasonable terms or at all. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to obtain third party intellectual property could harm our business and ability to compete. We may also be subject to costly litigation in the event our services and technology infringe upon or otherwise violate a third party’s proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that could be infringed by our services or technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our services or technology. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark, license usage or other intellectual property rights. Any claim from third parties may result in a limitation on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have been purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies like ours. Even if 33 Table of Contentswe believe that intellectual property related claims are without merit, defending against such claims is time consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of the time and attention of our management and employees. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected services, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our services. Even if we have an agreement for indemnification against such costs, the indemnifying party, if any in such circumstances, may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. Finally, we use open source software in connection with our technology and services. Companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. While we monitor the use of open source software in our technology and services and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose the source code to the related technology or service, such use could inadvertently occur and any requirement to disclose our proprietary source code could be harmful to our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we lose key personnel our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of our key personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the rapidly changing payment processing industry and the selected markets in which we offer our services. Many of our key personnel have worked for us for a significant amount of time or were recruited by us specifically due to their industry experience. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or a combination of our senior executives or key managers, including Charles D. Drucker, our chief executive officer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In a dynamic industry like ours, the ability to attract, recruit, retain and develop qualified employees is critical to our success and growth. Our business functions at the intersection of rapidly changing technological, social, economic and regulatory developments that require a wide ranging set of expertise and intellectual capital. In order for us to successfully compete and grow, we must attract, recruit, retain and develop the necessary personnel who can provide the needed expertise across the entire spectrum of our intellectual capital needs. While we have a number of our key personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, we must also develop our personnel to provide succession plans capable of maintaining continuity in the midst of the inevitable unpredictability of human capital. However, the market for qualified personnel is competitive, and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. We have hired significant numbers of new personnel since our separation from Fifth Third Bank and must continue to hire additional personnel to execute our strategic plans. Our effort to retain and develop personnel may also result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability. We cannot assure that qualified employees will continue to be employed or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results are subject to seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly net income. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenues as a result of consumer spending patterns. Historically our revenues have been strongest in our third and fourth quarters, and weakest in our first quarter. This is due to the increase in the number and amount of electronic payment transactions related to seasonal retail events. 34 Table of ContentsWe may need to raise additional funds to finance our future capital needs, which may prevent us from growing our business. We may need to raise additional funds to finance our future capital needs, including developing new services and technologies, and to fund ongoing operating expenses. We also may need additional financing earlier than we anticipate if we, among other things: •purchase residual equity (the portion of our commissions or residuals that we have committed to our distribution channel partners for as long as the merchant processes with us, which we may buy out at an agreed multiple) from a large number of distribution channel partners•need to reduce pricing in response to competitive or regulatory pressures;•are required to pay significant settlements or fines;•repurchase our common stock; or•finance Vantiv, Inc.’s purchase of Class B units of Vantiv Holding from Fifth Third Bank upon the exercise of their right to put their Class B units of Vantiv Holding to Vantiv, Inc. in exchange for cash to the extent that we decide to purchase rather than exchange such units for Class A common stock. If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity securities, these transactions may dilute the value of our outstanding Class A common stock. In addition, any issuance of securities constituting more than 20% of the total of our outstanding common stock, with certain limited exceptions, and incurrences of indebtedness that cause us to fail to meet a specified leverage ratio are subject to the consent rights of Fifth Third Bank set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the Amended and Restated Vantiv Holding Limited Liability Company Agreement. We may also decide to issue securities, including debt securities that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our Class A common stock. Any debt financing would increase our already high level of indebtedness and could negatively affect our liquidity and restrict our operations. We may be unable to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us or at all. If financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our future needs. This may prevent us from increasing our market share, capitalizing on new business opportunities or remaining competitive in our industry. Potential clients may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may adversely affect our growth. Many potential clients, including both financial institutions and merchants, worry about potential disadvantages associated with switching payment processing vendors, such as a loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs and business disruption. For potential clients of our Merchant Services and Financial Institution Services segments, switching from one vendor of core processing or related software and services (or from an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant undertaking. As a result, potential clients often resist change. We seek to overcome this resistance through strategies such as making investments to enhance the functionality of our software. However, there can be no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential clients’ reluctance to change vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth. We have a long sales cycle for many of our services, and if we fail to close sales after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The initial installation and set-up of many of our services often involve significant resource commitments by our clients, particularly those with larger operational scale. Potential clients generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available services and require us to expend substantial time (up to six to nine months), effort and money educating them as to the value of our services. We incur substantial costs in order to obtain each new customer. We may expend significant funds and management resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. Our sales cycle may be extended due to our clients’ budgetary constraints or for other reasons. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 35 Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our Company and Our Organizational Structure We have a limited operating history as a stand-alone company upon which you can evaluate our performance, and accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks that any newly stand-alone company encounters. Furthermore, we maintain many relationships with our former parent entity. Historically, our business has been conducted as a business unit of Fifth Third Bank, and many key services required by us for the operation of our business were provided by Fifth Third Bank until recently. Thus, we have limited experience operating as a stand-alone company and performing various corporate functions, including human resources, tax administration, legal (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and with the periodic reporting obligations of the Exchange Act), treasury administration, investor relations, internal audit, insurance and information technology, as well as the accounting for items such as equity compensation and income taxes. Our business is subject to the substantial risks inherent in the commencement of a new business enterprise in an intensely regulated and competitive industry. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in the early stages of independent business operations, particularly companies that are heavily affected by economic conditions and operate in highly regulated and competitive environments. Furthermore, we currently use services from Fifth Third Bank, such as treasury management services and limited information technology services. If Fifth Third Bank were to stop providing such services and we were unable to replace these services or enter into appropriate third party agreements on terms and conditions, including cost, comparable to those with Fifth Third Bank, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our debt obligations. We have a high level of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2012, we had total indebtedness of $1.3 billion. For the year ended December 31, 2012, total payments under our annual debt service obligations, including interest and principal, were $99.6 million. Our high degree of leverage could have significant negative consequences, including:•increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments;•requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;•exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including and most significantly borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest;•making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness;•restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;•making it more difficult for us to obtain payment network sponsorship and clearing services from financial institutions;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. The majority of our indebtedness consists of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities which mature in 2017 and 2019. We may not be able to refinance our senior secured credit facilities or any other existing indebtedness because of our high level of debt, debt incurrence restrictions under our debt agreements or because of adverse conditions in credit markets generally. 36 Table of ContentsDespite our high indebtedness level, we still may be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although our senior secured credit facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, we may incur up to $350.0 million of additional debt pursuant to an incremental facility under our senior secured credit facilities, subject to certain terms and conditions. If new debt is added to our outstanding debt levels, the risks related to our indebtedness that we will face would increase. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent 68% of our total assets at December 31, 2012. These assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. We also expect to engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional goodwill and intangible assets. Under current accounting standards, we are required to amortize certain intangible assets over the useful life of the asset, while goodwill and certain other intangible assets are not amortized. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill and certain intangible assets. If the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are party to four tax receivable agreements with our pre-initial public offering investors and the amounts we may be required to pay under these agreements could be significant. Prior to the consummation of our initial public offering, we entered into four tax receivable agreements with our pre-initial public offering investors. One tax receivable agreement provides for the payment by us to Fifth Third Bank of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income tax that we actually realize as a result of the increases in tax basis that may result from the purchase of Vantiv Holding units from Fifth Third Bank or from the future exchange of units by Fifth Third Bank for cash or shares of our Class A common stock, as well as the tax benefits attributable to payments made under such tax receivable agreement. Any actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of shares of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, and the amount and timing of our income. The second of these tax receivable agreements provides for the payment by us to Advent of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income tax that we actually realize as a result of our use of our tax attributes in existence prior to our initial public offering, as well as the tax benefits attributable to payments made under such tax receivable agreement. The third of these tax receivable agreements provides for the payment by us to our pre-initial public offering investors of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income tax that NPC actually realizes as a result of its use of its NOLs and other tax attributes, as well as the tax benefits attributable to payments made under such tax receivable agreement, with any such payment being paid to Advent, Fifth Third Bank and JPDN according to their respective ownership interests in Vantiv Holding immediately prior to the reorganization transactions. The fourth of these tax receivable agreements provides for the payment to JPDN of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income tax that we actually realize as a result in the increase of tax basis that may result from the Vantiv Holding units exchanged for our Class A common stock by JPDN, as well as the tax benefits attributable to payments made under such tax receivable agreement.The payments we will be required to make under the tax receivable agreements could be substantial. As of December 31, 2012, we have recorded a liability of approximately $485 million associated with the tax receivable agreements. We will incur additional liabilities in connection with any future purchases by us of units in Vantiv Holding from Fifth Third Bank or from the future exchange of units by Fifth Third Bank for cash or shares of our Class A common stock, which we cannot quantify at this time and which could be significant. It is possible that future transactions or events, including changes in tax rates, could increase or decrease the actual tax benefits realized and the corresponding tax receivable agreement payments. There may be a material adverse effect on our liquidity if, as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise, distributions to us by Vantiv Holding are not sufficient to permit us to make payments under the tax receivable agreements after we have paid taxes. The payments under the tax receivable agreements are not conditioned upon the continued ownership of us or Vantiv Holding by the other parties to that agreement. 37 Table of ContentsIn certain cases, payments under the tax receivable agreements may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreements. The tax receivable agreements provide that, upon certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combination or certain other changes of control, our obligations to make payments with respect to tax benefits would be based on certain assumptions, including that we would have sufficient taxable income to fully use the NOLs or deductions arising from increased tax basis of assets. As a result, upon a merger or other change of control, we could be required to make payments under the tax receivable agreements that are greater than 85% of our actual tax savings. We may elect to terminate any or all of the tax receivable agreements prior to the time they terminate in accordance with their terms. If we were to so elect, we would be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value of the anticipated future tax benefits taken into account under the tax receivable agreements. In addition, if we materially breach a material obligation in any or all of the tax receivable agreements and we do not cure such breach within a specified time period, we would also be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value of the anticipated future tax benefits taken into account under such tax receivable agreement. In the event of either a termination or a material breach of a material obligation, the anticipated future tax benefits would be determined under certain assumptions that in general assume that we would recognize the greatest amount of benefits at the earliest time. As a result, the payments we would be required to make if we elect to terminate any or all of the tax receivable agreements or a material breach occurs that is not cured within a specified time period could exceed 85% of the tax savings that we actually realize from the increased tax basis and/or the NOLs, and we could be required to make those payments significantly in advance of the time the tax savings arise.We will not be reimbursed for any payments made under the tax receivable agreements in the event that any tax benefits are disallowed. If the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, challenges the tax basis increases or NOLs that give rise to payments under the tax receivable agreements and the tax basis increases or NOLs are subsequently disallowed, the recipients of payments under those agreements will not reimburse us for any payments we previously made to them. Any such disallowance would be taken into account in determining future payments under the tax receivable agreements and would, therefore, reduce the amount of any such future payments. Nevertheless, if the claimed tax benefits from the tax basis increases or NOLs are disallowed, our payments under the tax receivable agreements could exceed our actual tax savings, and we may not be able to recoup payments under the tax receivable agreements that were calculated on the assumption that the disallowed tax savings were available. We are a holding company and our principal assets are our interests in Vantiv Holding, and we depend on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from Vantiv Holding to meet any existing or future debt service and other obligations and to pay dividends, if any, and taxes and other expenses. We are a holding company (and are required to remain as one until the exchange agreement, dated March 21, 2012 between us and Fifth Third Bank, or the Exchange Agreement, is no longer in effect), and we conduct all of our operations through Vantiv Holding and its subsidiaries. We have no material assets other than our ownership of units of Vantiv Holding. We have no independent means of generating revenues. We intend to, in accordance with the Amended and Restated Vantiv Holding Limited Liability Company Agreement, cause Vantiv Holding to make periodic tax distributions to its members computed based on an estimate of the net taxable income of Vantiv Holding allocable to a holder of its units multiplied by an assumed tax rate and only to the extent that the amount of all distributions from Vantiv Holding for the relevant year is less than such computed amount. The Amended and Restated Vantiv Holding Limited Liability Company Agreement contains consent rights that effectively require Fifth Third Bank’s approval of all distributions paid by Vantiv Holding, other than periodic tax distributions, payments required under the Exchange Agreement and payments under the Advancement Agreement dated March 21, 2012 between us and Vantiv Holding, which allows us to make payments under our tax receivable agreement related to the NPC NOLs, make payments under our other tax receivable agreements to the extent not covered by payments made pursuant to the Amended and Restated Vantiv Holding Limited Liability Company Agreement and make payments required under the Exchange Agreement, pay our franchise taxes and cover our reasonable administrative and corporate expenses. To the extent that we need funds and Vantiv Holding is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation, as a result of Fifth Third Bank’s consent rights at Vantiv Holding, or by the terms of Vantiv Holding’s indebtedness, or Vantiv Holding is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and, consequently, our business, financial condition and results of operations. 38 Table of ContentsEach of Advent and Fifth Third Bank independently have substantial control over us and Vantiv Holding and will be able to influence corporate matters with respect to us and Vantiv Holding. Advent and Fifth Third Bank may have interests that differ from each other and from those of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2012, Advent and Fifth Third Bank directly or indirectly hold, in the aggregate, approximately 41.9% and 18.5% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock, respectively. In addition, Fifth Third Bank also has consent rights pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the Amended and Restated Vantiv Holding Limited Liability Company Agreement with respect to certain significant matters. As a result, each of Advent and Fifth Third Bank will be able to strongly influence the election of our directors and potentially control the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. The total value and voting power of the Class A common stock and the Class B common stock that Fifth Third Bank holds (not including, for the avoidance of doubt, any ownership interest in units of Vantiv Holding) is limited to 18.5% at any time other than in connection with a stockholder vote with respect to a change of control, in which event Fifth Third Bank will have the right to that full number of votes equal to the number of shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock it owns, which amount will represent voting power equal to such ownership as a percentage of all Class A common stock and Class B common stock (and any preferred stock we may issue in the future which is entitled to vote with the Class A common stock). In addition, three of our 11 directors are employees of Advent. Fifth Third Bank has the right to elect a number of our directors proportionate to the voting power represented by the Class B common stock owned by Fifth Third Bank but not exceeding 18.5% of the board of directors; accordingly, two of our 11 directors are employees of Fifth Third Bank or its affiliates. The interests of Advent and Fifth Third Bank may not coincide with each other or the best interests of other holders of our Class A common stock. This concentration of voting power could also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to the holders of our Class A common stock. Fifth Third Bank is able to significantly influence our operations and management because of certain consent rights and other rights in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the Amended and Restated Vantiv Holding Limited Liability Company Agreement. All of our business and operations is conducted through Vantiv Holding, and our control of Vantiv Holding is subject to the consent rights provided to Fifth Third Bank in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the Amended and Restated Vantiv Holding Limited Liability Company Agreement. Fifth Third Bank has consent rights with respect to certain significant matters, including certain change of control transactions; acquisitions, dispositions, incurrences of indebtedness by us if we fail to meet a specified leverage ratio after giving effect to such incurrences; investments by us; equity issuances above specified thresholds; declaration and payment of dividends by Vantiv Holding; transactions with affiliates; changes to Vantiv Holding’s business plan; capital expenditures; material changes to the Vantiv Holding Management Phantom Equity Plan; hiring or firing of auditors; material tax elections; and changes in constituent documents or governance of our subsidiaries. Moreover, to the extent that the interests of Fifth Third Bank differ from those of us or the holders of our Class A common stock, Fifth Third Bank’s ability to block certain actions may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our stockholders and investors have interests and positions that could present potential conflicts with our and our other stockholders’ interests. Advent makes investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Advent and Fifth Third Bank may also pursue, for their own accounts, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Advent, through one of its private equity investments, owns an equity interest in WorldPay US, Inc., one of our direct competitors, which may result in their being provided with business opportunities through their relationship with Advent instead of us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions renouncing any interest or expectancy held by our directors affiliated with Advent and Fifth Third Bank in certain corporate opportunities. Accordingly, the interests of Advent and Fifth Third Bank may supersede ours, causing them or their affiliates to compete against us or to pursue opportunities instead of us, for which we have no recourse. Such actions on the part of Advent and Fifth Third Bank and inaction on our part could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 39 Table of ContentsSome provisions of Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may deter third parties from acquiring us and diminish the value of our Class A common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provide for, among other things: •restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting and the business that can be conducted at such meeting; •prohibition on the ability of our stockholders to remove directors elected by the holders of our Class A common stock without cause;•our ability to issue additional shares of Class A common stock and to issue preferred stock with terms that the board of directors may determine, in each case without stockholder approval (other than as specified in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation);•the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors;•supermajority approval requirements for amending or repealing provisions in the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws;•a classified board of directors;•a prohibition on action by written consent of stockholders following the date when Advent and Fifth Third Bank collectively cease to beneficially own 50% or more of our outstanding shares of, collectively, Class A common stock and Class B common stock; and•advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. These provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company that is in the best interest of our minority stockholders. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Class A common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to nominate directors for election to our board of directors and take other corporate actions. Risks Related to the Ownership of our Class A Common Stock Future sales of our Class A common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for Class A common stock could depress the market price of our Class A common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. We, our directors, executive officers, Advent and Fifth Third Bank have agreed to lock-up agreements with the underwriters of our December 6, 2012, secondary public offering that restrict us, our directors and executive officers, and these stockholders, subject to specified exceptions, from selling or otherwise disposing of any shares of our stock for a period of 90 days after December 6, 2012, the date of our secondary public offering, subject to potential extension under certain circumstances, without the prior consent of the underwriters. As of December 31, 2012, we had 142,243,680 shares of Class A common stock outstanding. After these lock-up agreements have expired and subject to vesting requirements and the requirements of Rule 144 of the Securities Act, approximately 167,755,689 additional shares will be eligible for sale in the public market, including any shares of Class A common stock that Fifth Third Bank obtains through the exercise of their right to exchange Class B units of Vantiv Holding for shares of our Class A common stock, as well as any shares of Class A common stock obtained through any conversion of Class C non-voting units of Vantiv Holding issuable upon exercise of the Warrant held by Fifth Third Bank. Advent and Fifth Third Bank (and certain permitted transferees thereof) have registration rights with respect to the Class A common stock they hold. We have also registered 35,500,000 shares of our Class A common stock that we have issued or have reserved for issuance under our 2012 equity incentive plan. These shares may be sold in the public market upon issuance and once vested, subject to the 90-day lock-up period for awards held by our executive officers and directors and other restrictions provided under the terms of the equity incentive plan and applicable award agreements. The underwriters may, in their sole discretion and without notice, release all or any portion of the shares subject to lock-up agreements prior to expiration of the lock-up period. Subject to the terms of the lock-up agreements, we also may issue our shares of common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with a financing, acquisition, investments or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. Due 40 Table of Contentsto these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to or could sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Any decline in the price of shares of our Class A common stock could impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our Class A common stock or other equity securities.Our internal control over financial reporting does not currently meet the standards required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently document or test our compliance with these controls on a periodic basis in accordance with Section 404. Furthermore, we have not tested our internal controls in accordance with Section 404 and, due to our lack of documentation, such a test would not be possible to perform at this time. We are in the early stages of addressing our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404, which requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, may suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules and may breach the covenants under our credit facilities. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, we will incur additional costs in order to improve our internal control over financial reporting and comply with Section 404, including increased auditing and legal fees and costs associated with hiring additional accounting and administrative staff. The price of our Class A common stock may be volatile. Securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock regardless of our results of operations. The trading price of our Class A common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, including, among other things, the risk factors described in this section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other factors beyond our control. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock will include:•market conditions in the broader stock market; •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly financial and operating results; •variations in operating results of similar companies; •introduction of new services by us, our competitors or our clients•issuance of new, negative or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations or estimates; •investor perceptions of us and the industries in which we or our clients operate; •sales, or anticipated sales, of our stock, including sales by existing stockholders; •additions or departures of key personnel; •regulatory or political developments; •stock-based compensation expense under applicable accounting standards; •litigation and governmental investigations; and•changing economic conditions. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for shares of our Class A common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of Class A common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our Class A common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. Securities litigation against us, regardless of the merits or outcome, could result in substantial costs and divert 41 Table of Contentsthe time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our business, profitability and reputation. We do not anticipate paying any dividends for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, for the foreseeable future, to repay indebtedness and to support our general corporate purposes. We do not intend in the forseeable future to pay any dividends to holders of our Class A common stock. We are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own. As a result our ability to pay dividends on our Class A common stock, if any, is dependent upon cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from Vantiv Holding, which are subject to Fifth Third Bank’s consent rights in the Amended and Restated Vantiv Holding Limited Liability Company Agreement. Excepted from the consent rights are quarterly tax distributions made pursuant to the Amended and Restated Vantiv Holding Limited Liability Company Agreement. In addition, Vantiv Holding is permitted under the Amended and Restated Vantiv Holding Limited Liability Company Agreement to make payments to us that are required under the Exchange Agreement and the Advancement Agreement, which allows us to make payments under our tax receivable agreement related to the NPC NOLs, make payments under our other tax receivable agreements to the extent not covered by payments made pursuant to the Amended and Restated Vantiv Holding Limited Liability Company Agreement, make payments required under the Exchange Agreement, pay our franchise taxes and cover our reasonable administrative and corporate expenses. Our subsidiaries’ debt agreements limit the amounts available to us to pay cash dividends, and, to the extent that we require additional funding, sources may prohibit the payment of a dividend. As a result, capital appreciation in the price of our Class A common stock, if any, will be your only source of gain on an investment in our Class A common stock. 42 Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone