Item 1A. Risk Factors. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we may not be able to pay distributions on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline and our unitholders could lose all or part of their investment. Other risks are also described in “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We may have capital needs for which our internally generated cash flows and other sources of liquidity may not be adequate. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flows or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations, comply with certain deadlines related to environmental regulations and standards or pursue our business strategies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or liquidity. We have substantial short-term capital needs and may have substantial long-term capital needs. Our short-term working capital needs are primarily related to financing our refined product inventory and accounts receivable. Our long-term needs for cash include those to support ongoing capital expenditures for equipment maintenance and upgrades during turnarounds at our refinery and to complete our routine and normally scheduled maintenance, regulatory and security expenditures. We are currently planning a major plant turnaround to occur during April 2013 and another partial turnaround for our fluid catalytic cracking unit during October 2013, for which we have budgeted aggregate spending of approximately $55 to $60 million. The refinery is currently expected to have reduced throughputs during the months of April and October 2013 to complete the turnarounds. In addition, from time to time, we are required to spend significant amounts for repairs when one or more processing units experiences temporary shutdowns. We continue to utilize significant capital to upgrade equipment, improve facilities, and reduce operational, safety and environmental risks. We may incur substantial compliance costs in connection with any new environmental, health and safety regulations. In addition, the board of directors of our general partner has adopted a distribution policy pursuant to which we will distribute an amount equal to the available cash we generate each quarter to unitholders. As a result, we will need to rely on external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our growth. Our liquidity will affect our ability to satisfy any of these needs. Our liquidity may be adversely affected by a reduction in third party credit. We rely on third party credit for approximately 50% of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases. We purchase the remaining crude oil and other feedstocks daily on terms via a crude oil supply and logistics agreement with JPM CCC, which provides logistical and administrative support to us for both the crude oil we source from them as well as the crude oil we source from our suppliers. For crude oil purchased on third party credit terms, we pay for both domestic crude oil purchases and Canadian crude oil purchases during the month following delivery. If our suppliers who sell crude oil and other feedstocks to us on trade credit were to reduce or eliminate our credit lines, we would be required to fund our purchases through our revolving credit facility or our crude oil supply and logistics agreement with JPM CCC, which would have a negative impact on liquidity. Our arrangements with Marathon expose us to Marathon-related credit and performance risk. We have a contract with Marathon under which we supply substantially all of the gasoline and diesel requirements for the independently owned and operated Marathon branded stores in our marketing area. Marathon has indemnification obligations to us pursuant to the agreements entered into in connection with the Marathon Acquisition. Marathon’s indemnification obligations resulting from any breach of representations and warranties generally are limited by an indemnification deductible of $25 million and an indemnification ceiling of $100 million and are guaranteed by Marathon Petroleum. 24 Table of Contents Marathon Petroleum has guaranteed the performance of all of Marathon’s obligations under all of the acquisition agreements entered into in connection with the Marathon Acquisition discussed above. Nevertheless, relying on Marathon’s ability to honor its fuel requirement purchase obligations and indemnity obligations, and on Marathon Petroleum’s ability to honor its guaranty obligations, exposes us to Marathon’s and Marathon Petroleum’s respective credit and business risks. There can be no assurance that claims resulting from any breach of Marathon’s representations and warranties under the acquisition agreements entered into in connection with the Marathon Acquisition will not exceed the $100 million indemnification ceiling. Moreover, selling products to Marathon under the supply contract can expose us to Marathon’s credit and general business risks. An adverse change in Marathon’s or Marathon Petroleum’s business, results of operations or financial condition could adversely affect their respective ability to perform each of these obligations, which could consequently have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or liquidity and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. Our historical financial statements may not be indicative of future performance. The historical financial statements for periods prior to December 1, 2010 presented in this report reflect carve-out financial statements of several operating units of Marathon, which, except for certain assets that were not acquired (e.g., cash other than in-store cash at our convenience stores and receivables and assets sold to third parties) and certain liabilities (e.g., accounts payable, payroll and benefits payable and deferred taxes) that were not assumed in connection with the Marathon Acquisition, represent the assets and liabilities that were transferred to us upon the closing of the Marathon Acquisition. We now own the assets and operate them as a standalone business. Prior to the closing of the Marathon Acquisition, we had no history of operating these assets, and they were never operated as a standalone business, thus the historical results presented in the financial statements for the periods prior to the Marathon Acquisition are not necessarily comparable to our financial statements following the Marathon Acquisition or indicative of the results for any future period. Additionally, we entered into certain arrangements at the closing of the Marathon Acquisition, including our crude oil supply and logistics agreement with JPM CCC and a lease arrangement with Realty Income, that resulted in our working capital needs and operating costs varying from those affecting the assets that we acquired from Marathon. The pre-Marathon Acquisition historical financial information reflects intercompany allocations of expenses which may not be indicative of the actual expenses that would have been incurred had the combined businesses been operating as a company independent from Marathon for the periods presented. In addition, our results of operations for periods subsequent to the closing of our initial public offering may not be comparable to our results of operations for periods prior to the closing of our initial public offering as a result of certain transactions undertaken in connection with our initial public offering. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Comparability of Historical Results” for a discussion of factors that affect comparability. As a result, it is difficult to evaluate our historical results of operations to assess our future prospects and viability. Competition from companies having greater financial and other resources than we do could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our refining operations compete with domestic refiners and marketers in the PADD II region of the United States, as well as with domestic refiners in other PADD regions and foreign refiners that import products into the United States. In addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers. Certain of our competitors have larger, more complex refineries, and may be able to realize lower per-barrel costs or higher margins per barrel of throughput. Several of our principal competitors are integrated national or international oil companies that are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do and have access to proprietary sources of controlled crude oil production. Unlike these competitors, we obtain substantially all of our feedstocks from unaffiliated sources. Because of their integrated operations and larger capitalization, these companies may be more flexible in responding to volatile industry or market conditions, such as shortages of crude oil supply and other feedstocks or intense price fluctuations. 25 Table of Contents Newer or upgraded refineries will often be more efficient than our refinery, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. While we have taken significant measures to maintain and upgrade units in our refinery by installing new equipment and repairing equipment to improve our operations, these actions involve significant uncertainties, since upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels, the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design specifications and modifications may be needed to correct equipment that does not perform as expected. Any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have an adverse effect on future results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions. Over time, our refinery may become obsolete, or be unable to compete, because of the construction of new, more efficient facilities by our competitors. Our retail operations compete with numerous convenience stores, gasoline service stations, supermarket chains, drug stores, fast food operations and other retail outlets. Increasingly, national high-volume grocery and dry-goods retailers are entering the gasoline retailing business. Many of these competitors are substantially larger than we are. Because of their diversity, integration of operations and greater resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions or levels of low or no profitability. In addition, these retailers may use promotional pricing or discounts, both at the pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales. These activities by our competitors could adversely affect our profit margins. Additionally, our convenience stores could lose market share, relating to both gasoline and merchandise, to these and other retailers, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. Our convenience stores compete in large part based on their ability to offer convenience to customers. Consequently, changes in traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing stores could result in the loss of customers and reduced sales and profitability at affected stores, and adversely affect our ability to make distributions. Difficult conditions in the U.S. and worldwide economies, and potential further deteriorating conditions in the United States and globally, may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Continued volatility and disruption in worldwide capital and credit markets and potential further deteriorating conditions in the United States and globally could affect our revenues and earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make distributions. We are indirectly exposed to risks faced by our suppliers, customers and other business partners. The impact on these constituencies of the risks posed by continued economic turmoil have included, or can include, interruptions or delays in the performance by counterparties to our contracts, reductions and delays in customer purchases, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products and the inability of customers to pay for our products. All of these events may significantly adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. The geographic concentration of our refinery and retail assets creates a significant exposure to the risks of the local economy and other local adverse conditions. The location of our refinery also creates the risk of significantly increased transportation costs should the supply/demand balance change in our region such that regional supply exceeds regional demand for refined products. As our refinery and a significant number of our stores are located in Minnesota, Wisconsin and South Dakota, we primarily market our refined and retail products in a single, relatively limited geographic area. As a result, we are more susceptible to regional economic conditions than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors, and any unforeseen events or circumstances that affect our operating area could also materially adversely affect our revenues and our ability to make distributions. These factors include, among other things, changes in the economy, weather conditions, demographics and population. Should the supply/demand balance shift in our region as a result of changes in the local economy discussed above, an increase in refining capacity or other reasons, resulting in supply in the PADD II region exceeding 26 Table of Contents demand, we would have to deliver refined products to customers outside of the region and thus incur considerably higher transportation costs, resulting in lower refining margins, if any. Changes in market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. Our operating results are seasonal and generally significantly lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year for our refining business and in the first quarter of the year for our retail business. We depend on favorable weather conditions in the spring and summer months. Demand for gasoline is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in highway traffic. Decreased demand during the winter months can lead to lower gasoline prices. As a result, the operating results of our refining business for the first and fourth calendar quarters are generally significantly lower than those for the second and third calendar quarters of each year. Seasonal fluctuations in traffic also affect sales of motor fuels and merchandise in our retail fuel and convenience stores. As a result, the operating results of our retail business are generally lower for the first quarter of the year. Weather conditions in our operating area also have a significant effect on our retail operating results. Customers are more likely to purchase higher profit margin items at our retail fuel and convenience stores, such as fast foods, fountain drinks and other beverages, and more gasoline during the spring and summer months, thereby typically generating higher revenues and gross margins for us in these periods. Unfavorable weather conditions during these months and a resulting lack of the expected seasonal upswings in traffic and sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As the amount of cash we will be able to distribute with respect to a quarter principally depends on the amount of cash we generate from operations and because we do not intend to reserve or borrow cash to pay distributions in subsequent quarters, distributions with respect to the first and fourth quarters of the year may be significantly lower than with respect to the second and third quarters. Weather conditions and natural disasters could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. The effects of weather conditions and natural disasters can lead to volatility in the costs and availability of energy and raw materials or negatively impact our operations or those of our customers and suppliers, which could have a significant adverse effect on our business and results of operations and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. We may not be able to successfully execute our strategy of growth within the refining and retail industry through acquisitions. A component of our growth strategy is to selectively consider accretive acquisitions within the refining industry and retail market based on sustainable performance of the targeted assets through the refining cycle, access to advantageous crude oil supplies, attractive demand and supply market fundamentals, access to distribution and logistics infrastructure and potential operating synergies. Our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify acceptable acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth and many other factors beyond our control. Risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to: • diversion of management time and attention from our existing business; • challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations; • difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of an acquired business with those of our existing operations; 27 Table of Contents • liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance; • greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental, safety or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; • our inability to offer competitive terms to our franchisees to grow our franchise business; • difficulties in achieving anticipated operational improvements; and • incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets. We may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. Our business may suffer if any of the executive officers or other key employees discontinues employment with us. Furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in our labor force may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity. Our future success depends to a large extent on the services of the executive officers and other key employees and on our continuing ability to recruit, train and retain highly qualified employees in all areas of our operations, including accounting, business operations, finance and other key back-office and mid-office personnel. Furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced employees with proficiency in multiple tasks. The competition for these employees is intense, and the loss of these executives or employees could harm our business. If any of these executives or other key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, our business could be materially adversely affected. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. Our operations could be disrupted if our information systems fail, causing increased expenses and loss of sales. Our business is highly dependent on financial, accounting and other data processing systems and other communications and information systems, including our enterprise resource planning tools. We process a large number of transactions on a daily basis and rely upon the proper functioning of computer systems. If a key system were to fail or experience unscheduled downtime for any reason, even if only for a short period, our operations and financial results could be affected adversely. Our systems could also be damaged or interrupted by a security breach, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure or similar event. Our formal disaster recovery plan may not prevent delays or other complications that could arise from an information systems failure. Further, our business interruption insurance may not compensate us adequately for losses that may occur. We may incur significant liability under, or costs and capital expenditures to comply with, environmental, health and safety regulations, which are complex and change frequently. Our refinery, pipelines and retail operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. Compliance with the complex array of federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, health and safety is difficult and likely will require us to make significant expenditures. Moreover, our business is inherently subject to accidental spills, discharges or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances into the environment including at neighboring areas or third party storage, treatment or disposal facilities. For example, we have performed remediation of known soil and groundwater contamination beneath certain of our retail locations 28 Table of Contents primarily as a result of leaking underground storage tanks, and we will continue to perform remediation of this known contamination until the appropriate regulatory standards have been achieved. Certain environmental laws impose joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct in connection with the investigation and cleanup of such spills, discharges or releases. As such, we may be required to pay more than our fair share of such investigation or cleanup. We may not be able to operate in compliance with all applicable environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permits at all times. Violations of applicable legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions and/or facility shutdowns. We may also be required to make significant capital expenditures or incur increased operating costs or change operations to achieve compliance with applicable standards. We cannot predict the extent to which additional environmental, health and safety legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. For example, on September 12, 2012, the EPA published final amendments to the NSPS for petroleum refineries to be effective November 13, 2012. These amendments include standards for emissions of nitrogen oxides from process heaters and work practice standards and monitoring requirements for flares. To comply with the amendments, we plan to install and operate a continuous emissions monitoring system for nitrogen oxides on a process heater. We have already installed and will operate additional instrumentation on our flare. We anticipate the total cost for these two projects will be approximately $700,000 to be spent in 2012 through 2014. We continue to evaluate the regulation and amended standards, as may be applicable to the operations at our refinery. We cannot currently predict what additional costs that we may have to incur, if any, to comply with the amended NSPS, but the costs could be material. In addition, the EPA has announced that it plans to propose new “Tier 3” motor vehicle emission and fuel standards sometime in 2013. It has been reported that these new Tier 3 regulations may, among other things, lower the maximum average sulfur content of gasoline from 30 parts per million to 10 parts per million. If the Tier 3 regulations are eventually implemented and lower the maximum allowable content of sulfur or other constituents in fuels that we produce, we may at some point in the future be required to make significant capital expenditures and/or incur materially increased operating costs to comply with the new standards. Expenditures or costs for environmental, health and safety compliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and profitability and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. We could incur significant costs in cleaning up contamination at our refinery, terminal and convenience stores. Our refinery site has been used for refining activities for many years. Petroleum hydrocarbons and various substances have been released on or under our refinery site. Marathon performed remediation of known soil and groundwater contamination beneath the refinery for many years, and we will continue to perform remediation of this known contamination until the appropriate regulatory standards have been achieved. These remediation efforts are being overseen by the MPCA pursuant to a remediation settlement agreement entered into by the former owner and the MPCA in 2007. Releases of petroleum hydrocarbons have also occurred at several of our convenience stores, and we have performed and will continue to perform remediation of this known contamination until the applicable regulatory standards are met. Costs for such remediation activities are often unpredictable, and there can be no assurance that the future costs will not be material. It is possible that we may identify additional contamination in the future, which could result in additional remediation obligations and expenses, including fines and penalties. We are subject to strict laws and regulations regarding employee and business process safety, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the requirements of OSHA and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, OSHA requires that we maintain information about hazardous materials 29 Table of Contents used or produced in our operations and that we provide this information to employees, state and local governmental authorities, and local residents. Failure to comply with OSHA requirements, including general industry standards, process safety standards and control of occupational exposure to regulated substances, could subject us to significant fines or cause us to spend significant amounts on compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and the cash flows of the business and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance. We are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal, state and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, withholding and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed that could result in increased expenditures for tax liabilities in the future. Certain of these liabilities are subject to periodic audits by the respective taxing authority, which could increase our tax liabilities. Subsequent changes to our tax liabilities as a result of these audits may also subject us to interest and penalties. Any such changes in our tax liabilities could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our insurance policies may be inadequate or expensive. Our insurance coverage does not cover all potential losses, costs or liabilities. We could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of our existing insurance coverage. Our ability to obtain and maintain adequate insurance may be affected by conditions in the insurance market over which we have no control. In addition, if we experience insurable events, our annual premiums could increase further or insurance may not be available at all or if it is available, on limited coverage items. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance or the loss of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. Our level of indebtedness may increase and reduce our financial flexibility. In the future, we may incur significant indebtedness in order to make future acquisitions or to develop our properties. Our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following: • a significant portion of our cash flows could be used to service our indebtedness; • a high level of debt would increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • the covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness will limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay distributions and make certain investments; • a high level of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged, and therefore may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness would prevent us from pursuing; • our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry; • a high level of debt may make it more likely that a reduction in our borrowing base following a periodic redetermination could require us to repay a portion of our then-outstanding bank borrowings; and • a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes. A high level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General 30 Table of Contents economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on our debt, and future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our units or a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital. In addition, our bank borrowing base is subject to periodic redeterminations. We could be forced to repay a portion of our bank borrowings due to redeterminations of our borrowing base. If we are forced to do so, we may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, we may have to sell significant assets. Any such sale could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. Increased costs of capital could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. Changes in any one or more of these factors could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our access to capital, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce our cash flows and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. Additionally, as with other yield-oriented securities, we expect that our unit price will be impacted by the level of our quarterly cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have a material adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity to fund our operations or to make acquisitions or to incur debt as well as increasing our interest costs. We require continued access to capital. In particular, the board of directors of our general partner has adopted a distribution policy pursuant to which we will distribute an amount equal to the available cash we generate each quarter to unitholders. As a result, we will need to rely on external financing sources to fund our growth. A significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. We do not have the same flexibility as other types of organizations to accumulate cash and equity to protect against illiquidity in the future. Unlike a corporation, our policy is to distribute all available cash generated each quarter. Accordingly, if we experience a liquidity problem in the future, we may have difficulty satisfying our debt obligations. Risks Primarily Related to Our Refining Business The price volatility of crude oil, other feedstocks, refined products and fuel and utility services may have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and liquidity and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our refining and retail earnings, cash flows and liquidity from operations depend primarily on the margin above operating expenses (including the cost of refinery feedstocks, such as crude oil and natural gas liquids that are processed and blended into refined products) at which we are able to sell refined products. Refining is primarily a margin-based business and, to increase earnings, it is important to maximize the yields of high value 31 Table of Contents finished products while minimizing the costs of feedstock and operating expenses. When the margin between refined product prices and crude oil and other feedstock costs contracts, our earnings and cash flows are negatively affected. Refining margins historically have been volatile, and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of a variety of factors, including fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, refined products and fuel and utility services. For example, from January 2005 to December 2012, the price for NYMEX WTI crude oil fluctuated between $33.87 and $145.29 per barrel, while the price for U.S. Gulf Coast conventional gasoline fluctuated between $39.16 per barrel and $140.88 per barrel. While an increase or decrease in the price of crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. The effect of changes in crude oil prices on our refining margins therefore depends in part on how quickly and how fully refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. In addition, the nature of our business requires us to maintain substantial refined product inventories. Because refined products are commodities, we have no control over the changing market value of these inventories. Our refined product inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market value under the last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) inventory valuation methodology. If the market value of our refined product inventory were to decline to an amount less than our LIFO cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of sales. Prices of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the supply of and demand for crude oil, other feedstocks, gasoline, diesel, asphalt and other refined products. Such supply and demand are affected by, among other things: • changes in global and local economic conditions; • domestic and foreign demand for fuel products, especially in the United States, China and India; • worldwide political conditions, particularly in significant oil producing regions such as the Middle East, West Africa and Latin America; • the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products and the volume of crude oil, feedstock and refined products imported into the United States; • availability of and access to transportation infrastructure; • utilization rates of U.S. refineries; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to affect oil prices and maintain production controls; • development and marketing of alternative and competing fuels; • commodities speculation; • natural disasters (such as hurricanes and tornadoes), accidents, interruptions in transportation, inclement weather or other events that can cause unscheduled shutdowns or otherwise adversely affect our refineries; • federal and state government regulations and taxes; and • local factors, including market conditions, weather conditions and the level of operations of other refineries and pipelines in our markets. Our direct operating expense structure also impacts our earnings. Our major direct operating expenses include employee and contract labor, maintenance and energy costs. Our predominant variable direct operating cost is energy, which is comprised primarily of fuel and other utility services. The volatility in costs of fuel, principally natural gas, and other utility services, principally electricity, used by our refinery and other operations affect our operating costs. Fuel and utility prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by factors outside 32 Table of Contents our control, such as supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. Natural gas prices have historically been volatile and, typically, electricity prices fluctuate with natural gas prices. Future increases in fuel and utility prices may have a negative effect on our earnings and cash flows. Fuel and other utility services costs constituted approximately 13.0% and 13.3% of our total direct operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Volatility in refined product prices also affects our borrowing base under our revolving credit facility. A decline in prices of our refined products reduces the value of our refined product inventory collateral, which, in turn, may reduce the amount available for us to borrow under our revolving credit facility. Our results of operations are affected by crude oil differentials, which may fluctuate substantially. Our results of operations are affected by crude oil differentials, which may fluctuate substantially. Since 2010, refined product prices have been more correlated to prices of Brent than to NYMEX WTI, the traditional U.S. crude oil benchmark, as the discount to which a barrel of NYMEX WTI traded relative to a barrel of Brent has widened significantly relative to historical levels. This differential has also been very volatile as a result of various continuing geopolitical events as well as logistical and infrastructure constraints to move crude oil from Cushing, Oklahoma into the U.S. Gulf Coast. Between December 1, 2010 and December 31, 2012, the discount at which a barrel of NYMEX WTI traded relative to a barrel of Brent increased from $2.12 to $19.29. The widening of this price differential benefited refineries, such as ours, that are capable of sourcing and utilizing crude oil that is priced more in line with NYMEX WTI. The refinery not only realized relatively lower feedstock costs but also was able to sell refined products at prices that had been pushed upward by higher Brent prices. A significant narrowing of this differential may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. The dangers inherent in our operations could cause disruptions and could expose us to potentially significant losses, costs or liabilities and reduce our liquidity. We are particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our operations because all of our refining operations are conducted at a single facility. Our operations are subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil, intermediate products and refined products. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, fires, explosions, pipeline ruptures and spills, third party interference and mechanical failure of equipment at our facilities, any of which could result in production and distribution difficulties and disruptions, pollution (such as oil spills, etc.), personal injury or wrongful death claims and other damage to our properties and the property of others. For example, in December 2007, a fuel oil tank roof caught on fire at our refinery when an operator was attempting to thaw a level gauge. The tank’s roof was destroyed and the operator was fatally injured during the fire. There is also risk of mechanical failure and equipment shutdowns both in the normal course of operations and following unforeseen events. In such situations, undamaged refinery processing units may be dependent on, or interact with, damaged process units and, accordingly, are also subject to being shut down. For example, on May 6, 2012, our refinery experienced a temporary shutdown due to a power outage that appears to have originated from outside the plant as a result of high winds and thunderstorms. In the case of such a shutdown, the refinery must initiate a standard start-up process, and such process typically lasts several days. We were able to resume normal operations on May 13, 2012. Because all of our refining operations are conducted at a single refinery, any of such events at our refinery could significantly disrupt our production and distribution of refined products, including the supply of our refined products to our convenience stores, which receive substantially all of their supply of gasoline and diesel from the refinery. Any disruption in our ability to supply our convenience stores would increase the cost of purchasing refined products for our retail business. Any sustained disruption would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. 33 Table of Contents We are subject to interruptions of supply and distribution as a result of our reliance on pipelines for transportation of crude oil, blendstocks and refined products. Our refinery receives most of its crude oil and delivers a portion of its refined products through pipelines. The Minnesota Pipeline system is the primary supply route for crude oil and has transported substantially all of the crude oil used at our refinery. We also distribute a portion of our transportation fuels through pipelines owned and operated by Magellan Pipeline Company, L.P. (“Magellan”), including the Aranco Pipeline, which Magellan leases from us. We could experience an interruption of supply or delivery, or an increased cost of receiving crude oil and delivering refined products to market, if the ability of these pipelines to transport crude oil, blendstocks or refined products is disrupted because of accidents, weather interruptions, governmental regulation, terrorism, other third party action or any of the types of events described in the preceding risk factor. For example, there was a leak in 2006 prior to the completion of the expansion of the Minnesota Pipeline, and the refinery was temporarily shut off from any receipts from the Minnesota Pipeline other than crude oil that was already in the tanks at Cottage Grove, Minnesota. At that time, the only alternative to receive crude oil was the Wood River Pipeline, a pipeline extending from Wood River, Illinois to a connection with the Minnesota Pipeline near Pine Bend, Minnesota, which had limited capacity to meet the refinery’s needs. While the refinery can receive crude oil deliveries from the Wood River Pipeline if the Minnesota Pipeline system experiences another disruption, this would result in an increase in the cost of crude oil and therefore lower refining margins. In addition, due to the common carrier regulatory obligation applicable to interstate oil pipelines, capacity must be prorated among shippers in an equitable manner in accordance with the tariff then in effect in the event there are nominations in excess of capacity. Therefore, nominations by new shippers or increased nominations by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to us. Any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that we rely upon for transportation of crude oil and refined products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. We must make substantial capital expenditures on our operating facilities to maintain their reliability and efficiency. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and/or in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and our ability to make distributions to unitholders, could be materially and adversely affected. Delays or cost increases related to the engineering, procurement and construction of new facilities (or improvements and repairs to our existing facilities and equipment) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors in the marketplace, many of which are beyond our control, including: • denial or delay in issuing regulatory approvals and/or permits; • unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; • disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials; • severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of our vendors and suppliers; • shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; • market-related increases in a project’s debt or equity financing costs; and/or • nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, our vendors, suppliers, contractors or sub-contractors. Our refinery consists of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. Equipment, even if properly maintained, may require significant capital expenditures and expenses to keep it 34 Table of Contents operating at optimum efficiency. For example, as part of installing safety instrumentation systems throughout the refinery to improve operational and safety performance, approximately $17 million was spent from 2006 through December 2012, and we have budgeted $6.2 million for additional related expenditures through 2013 to complete the instrumentation project. One or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that may be more frequent than our scheduled turnarounds for such units. Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating. We are currently planning a major plant turnaround to occur during April 2013 and another partial turnaround for our fluid catalytic cracking unit during October 2013, for which we have budgeted aggregate spending of approximately $55 to $60 million. The refinery is currently expected to have reduced throughputs during the months of April and October 2013 to complete the turnarounds. We do not intend to reserve cash to pay distributions during periods of scheduled or unscheduled maintenance, though we do intend to reserve for turnaround expenses. Any one or more of these occurrences could have a significant impact on our business. If we were unable to make up the delays or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. A portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. Approximately 180 of our employees associated with the operations of our refining business are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in December 2013. In addition, 23 of our employees associated with the operations of our retail business are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in August 2014. We may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms or at all when such agreements expire. A failure to do so may increase our costs associated with our workforce. Other employees of ours who are not presently represented by a union may become so represented in the future as well. In 2006, the unionized refinery employees conducted a strike when Marathon sought to revise certain working terms and conditions. Another work stoppage resulting from, among other things, a dispute over a term or condition of a collective bargaining agreement that covers employees who work at our refinery or in our retail business, could cause disruptions in our business and negatively impact our results of operations and ability to make distributions. In August 2012, we locked out the unionized drivers at the Supermom’s bakery for six days when the parties were unable to come to terms on a new union contract. Product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Product liability is a significant commercial risk. Substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries caused by the use of or exposure to various products. Failure of our products to meet required specifications could result in product liability claims from our shippers and customers arising from contaminated or off-specification commingled pipelines and storage tanks and/or defective quality fuels. There can be no assurance that product liability claims against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations or on our ability to make distributions. Laws and regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could force us to incur increased capital and operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs endanger public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act, as amended (“CAA”). The EPA adopted two sets of rules effective January 2, 2011 regulating GHG emissions under the CAA, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor 35 Table of Contents vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources. While the EPA’s rules relating to emissions of GHGs from large stationary sources are currently subject to a number of legal challenges, the federal courts have thus far declined to issue any injunctions to prevent the EPA from implementing or requiring state environmental agencies to implement the rules. The EPA has also implemented rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States, including petroleum refineries, on an annual basis, for emissions occurring after January 1, 2010. Additionally, in December 2010, the EPA reached a settlement agreement with numerous parties pursuant to which it agreed to promulgate NSPS for GHG emissions from petroleum refineries by December 2011. To date, however, the EPA has not proposed the NSPS for GHG emissions from petroleum refineries, and we cannot predict the requirements of these rules. We may be required to make significant capital expenditures and/or incur materially increased operating costs to comply with the GHG NSPS once it is finalized by the EPA. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. These cap and trade programs generally work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and on an annual basis surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced over time in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction goal. Minnesota is a participant in the Midwest Regional GHG Reduction Accord, a non-binding resolution that could lead to the creation of a regional GHG cap-and-trade program if the Minnesota legislature and the legislatures of other participating states enact implementing legislation. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the refined products that we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. In addition, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. If any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. Renewable fuels mandates may reduce demand for the petroleum fuels we produce, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, the EPA has issued RFS implementing mandates to blend renewable fuels into the petroleum fuels produced and sold in the United States. Under RFS, the volume of renewable fuels that obligated refineries like us must blend into their finished petroleum fuels increases annually over time until 2022. We currently purchase RINS for some fuel categories on the open market, as well as waiver credits for cellulosic biofuels from the EPA, in order to comply with the RFS. In the future, we may be required to purchase additional RINS on the open market and waiver credits from the EPA to comply with the RFS. We cannot currently predict the future prices of RINS or waiver credits, but the costs to obtain the necessary number of RINS and waiver credits could be material. Additionally, Minnesota law currently requires that all diesel sold in the state for use in internal combustion engines must contain at least 5% biodiesel. Under this statute, if certain preconditions are met, the minimum biodiesel content in diesel sold in the state was to increase to 10% beginning on May 1, 2012, and to 20% beginning on May 1, 2015. The increase to 10% did not occur on May 1, 2012, because the Minnesota commissioners of agriculture, 36 Table of Contents commerce, and pollution control did not certify that all statutory pre-conditions were satisfied by the statutory deadline, but instead jointly recommended delaying the increase to 10% by one year, to May 1, 2013. Minnesota law also currently requires, with limited exceptions, that all gasoline sold or offered for sale in the state must contain the maximum amount of ethanol allowed under federal law for use in all gasoline-powered motor vehicles. On October 13, 2010, the EPA granted a partial waiver raising the maximum amount of ethanol allowed under federal law from 10% to 15% for cars and light trucks manufactured since 2007, and on January 21, 2011, the EPA extended the maximum allowable ethanol content of 15% to apply to cars and light trucks manufactured since 2001. The maximum amount allowed under federal law currently remains at 10% ethanol for all other vehicles. The EPA required that fuel and fuel additive manufacturers take certain steps before introducing gasoline containing 15% ethanol (“E15”) into the market, including developing and obtaining EPA approval of a plan to minimize the potential for E15 to be used in vehicles and engines not covered by the partial waiver. The EPA has taken several recent actions to authorize the introduction of E15 into the market, including approving, on June 15, 2012, the first plans to minimize the potential for E15 to be used in vehicles and engines not covered by the partial waiver. Existing laws and regulations could change, and the minimum volumes of renewable fuels that must be blended with refined petroleum fuels may increase. Because we do not produce renewable fuels, increasing the volume of renewable fuels that must be blended into our products displaces an increasing volume of our refinery’s product pool, potentially resulting in lower earnings and materially adversely affecting our ability to make distributions. Our pipeline interests are subject to federal and/or state rate regulation, which could reduce our profitability. Our pipeline transportation activities are subject to regulation by multiple governmental agencies, and compliance with such regulation increases our cost of doing business and affects our profitability. Additional proposals and proceedings that affect the oil industry are regularly considered by Congress, the states, FERC and the courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective or what impact such proposals may have. Projected expenditures related to the Minnesota Pipeline reflect the recurring costs resulting from compliance with these regulations, and these costs may increase due to future acquisitions, changes in regulation, changes in use, ongoing expenditures to maintain reliability and efficiency or discovery of existing but unknown compliance issues. In addition, if the current lease with Magellan of the Aranco Pipeline were terminated and we were to operate the Aranco Pipeline or, if the Cottage Grove pipelines were required to comply with these regulations, we would incur similar costs. The Minnesota Pipeline is a common carrier pipeline providing interstate transportation service, which is subject to regulation by FERC under the ICA. The ICA requires that tariff rates for interstate petroleum pipelines transportation service be just and reasonable and that the rates and terms of service of such pipelines not be unduly discriminatory or unduly preferential. The tariff rates are generally set by the board of managers of the Minnesota Pipe Line Company, which we do not control. Because we currently do not operate the Minnesota Pipeline or control the board of managers of the Minnesota Pipe Line Company, we do not control how the Minnesota Pipeline’s tariff is applied, including the tariff provisions governing the allocation of capacity, or control of decision-making with respect to tariff changes for the pipeline. FERC can investigate the pipeline’s rates and certain terms of service on its own initiative. In addition, shippers may file with FERC protests against new tariff rates and/or terms and conditions of service or complaints against existing tariff rates and/or terms and conditions of services. Under certain circumstances, FERC could limit the Minnesota Pipe Line Company’s ability to set rates based on its costs, or could order the Minnesota Pipe Line Company to reduce its rates and could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the complaint or refunds to all shippers in the context of a protest proceeding. If it found the Minnesota Pipeline’s rates or terms of service to be contrary to statutory requirements, FERC could impose conditions it considers appropriate and/or impose penalties. Further, FERC could declare pipeline-related facilities to be common carrier facilities and require that common carrier access be provided or otherwise alter the terms of service and/or rates of such facilities, to the extent applicable. Rate regulation or a successful challenge to the rates the Minnesota Pipeline charges could adversely affect its financial position, cash 37 Table of Contents flows, or results of operations and, thus, our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. Conversely, reduced rates on the Minnesota Pipeline would reduce the rates for transportation of crude oil into our refinery. FERC currently allows petroleum pipelines to change their rates within prescribed ceiling levels tied to an inflation index. The Minnesota Pipeline currently bases its rates on the indexing methodology. If the Minnesota Pipeline were to attempt to increase rates beyond the maximum allowed by the indexing methodology, it would be required to file a cost-of-service justification, obtain approval from an unaffiliated party that intends to ship on the pipeline (with respect to initial rates for any new service), obtain approval from all current shippers (i.e., settlement), or obtain prior approval to file market-based rates. FERC’s indexing methodology is subject to review every five years. In an order issued in December 2010, FERC announced that, effective July 1, 2011, the index would equal the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 2.65% (previously, the index was equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 1.3%). This index is to be in effect through July 2016. If the increases in the index are not sufficient to fully reflect actual increases to our costs, our financial condition could be adversely affected. If the index results in a rate increase that is substantially in excess of the pipeline’s actual cost increases, or it results in a rate decrease that is substantially less than the pipeline’s actual cost decrease, the rates may be protested, and, if such protests are successful, result in the lowering of the pipeline’s rates below the indexed level. FERC’s rate-making methodologies may limit the pipeline’s ability to set rates based on our true costs and may delay or limit the use of rates that reflect increased costs of providing transportation service. If we were to operate the Aranco Pipeline to provide transportation of crude oil or petroleum products in interstate commerce, we would expect to also be regulated by FERC as an interstate oil pipeline and the Aranco Pipeline would be subject to the same regulatory risks discussed above. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market for our units, the industry in which we conduct our operations and our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. Such attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact our refinery, properties or the securities markets in general. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. Adverse economic conditions could harm the demand for our products or the securities markets in general, which could harm our operating results and ability to make distributions. While we have insurance that provides some coverage against terrorist attacks, such insurance has become increasingly expensive and difficult to obtain. As a result, insurance providers may not continue to offer this coverage to us on terms that we consider affordable, or at all. Some of our operations are conducted with partners, which may decrease our ability to manage risks associated with those operations. We sometimes enter into arrangements to conduct certain business operations, such as pipeline transportation, with partners in order to share risks associated with those operations. However, these arrangements may also decrease our ability to manage risks and costs associated with those operations, particularly where we are not the operator. We could have limited influence over and control of the behaviors and performance of these operations. This could affect our operational performance, financial position and reputation. We own 17% of the outstanding common interests of the Minnesota Pipe Line Company and 17% of the outstanding preferred shares of MPL Investments, which owns 100% of the preferred units of the Minnesota Pipe Line Company. The Minnesota Pipe Line Company owns the Minnesota Pipeline, a crude oil pipeline system in Minnesota that transports crude oil to the Twin Cities area and which consistently transports most of our crude 38 Table of Contents oil input. The remaining interests in the Minnesota Pipe Line Company are held by a subsidiary of Koch Industries, Inc., which operates the system and is an affiliate of the only other refinery owner in Minnesota, with a 74.16% interest, and TROF Inc., with an 8.84% interest. For more information about the economic effect of our investments in the Minnesota Pipe Line Company and MPL Investments, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and “—Results of Operations.” Because our investments in the Minnesota Pipe Line Company and MPL Investments are limited, we do not have significant influence over or control of the performance of the Minnesota Pipe Line Company’s operations, which could impact our operational performance, financial position and reputation. If we are unable to obtain our crude oil supply without the benefit of the crude oil supply and logistics agreement with JPM CCC or similar agreement, our exposure to the risks associated with volatile crude oil prices may increase. Our supply and logistics agreement with JPM CCC allows us to price all crude oil processed at the refinery one day after it is received at the plant. This arrangement minimizes the amount of in-transit inventory and reduces our exposure to fluctuations in crude oil prices. In excess of 90% of the crude oil delivered at the refinery is handled through our agreement with JPM CCC independent of whether crude oil is sourced from our suppliers or from JPM CCC directly. If we are unable to obtain our crude oil supply through the crude oil supply and logistics agreement or similar agreement, our exposure to crude oil pricing risks may increase as the number of days between when we pay for the crude oil and when the crude oil is delivered to us increases. Such increased exposure could negatively impact our liquidity position due to our increased working capital needs as a result of the increase in the value of crude oil inventory we would have to carry on our balance sheet and, therefore, could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. Our suppliers source a substantial amount of our crude oil from the Bakken Shale of North Dakota and may experience interruptions of supply from that region. Our suppliers source a substantial amount of our crude oil from the Bakken Shale of North Dakota. As a result, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of supply from that region caused by transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production, unavailability of equipment, facilities, personnel or services, significant governmental regulation, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, plant closures for scheduled maintenance or interruption of transportation of oil or natural gas produced from the wells in that area. Our commodity derivative contracts may limit our potential gains, exacerbate potential losses and involve other risks. We may enter into commodity derivatives contracts to mitigate our crack spread risk with respect to a portion of our expected gasoline and diesel production. We enter into these arrangements with the intent to secure a minimum fixed cash flow stream on the volume of products hedged during the hedge term. However, our hedging arrangements may fail to fully achieve these objectives for a variety of reasons, including our failure to have adequate hedging contracts, if any, in effect at any particular time and the failure of our hedging arrangements to produce the anticipated results. We may not be able to procure adequate hedging arrangements due to a variety of factors. Moreover, while intended to reduce the adverse effects of fluctuations in crude oil and refined product prices, such transactions may limit our ability to benefit from favorable changes in margins. In addition, our hedging activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • the volumes of our actual use of crude oil or production of the applicable refined products is less than the volumes subject to the hedging arrangement; • accidents, interruptions in feedstock transportation, inclement weather or other events cause unscheduled shutdowns or otherwise adversely affect our refinery, or those of our suppliers or customers; 39 Table of Contents • the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts the commodity or crack spread subject to the hedging arrangement. As a result, the effectiveness of our risk mitigation strategy could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and our ability to make distributions. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” In addition, these risk mitigation activities involve basis risk. Basis risk in a hedging arrangement occurs when the price of the commodity we hedge is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged commodity is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. For example, a NYMEX index used for hedging certain volumes of crude oil or refined products may have more or less variability than the cost or price for such crude oil or refined products. We currently have no plans to hedge the basis risk inherent in our derivatives contracts. Our commodity derivative activities could result in period-to-period earnings volatility. We do not apply hedge accounting to our commodity derivative contracts and, as a result, unrealized gains and losses are charged to our earnings based on the increase or decrease in the market value of the unsettled position. These gains and losses are reflected in our income statement in periods that differ from when the underlying hedged items (i.e., gross margins) are reflected in our income statement. Such derivative gains or losses in earnings may produce significant period-to-period earnings volatility that is not necessarily reflective of our underlying operational performance. Derivatives regulation included in current financial reform legislation could impede our ability to manage business and financial risks by restricting our use of derivative instruments as hedges against fluctuating commodity prices. The U.S. Congress adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). This comprehensive financial reform legislation establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The legislation was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010 and requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. In December 2011, the CFTC extended temporary exemptive relief from the deadline for certain regulations applicable to swaps until no later than July 16, 2012. The CFTC has since adopted regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets. The CFTC has also proposed to establish minimum capital requirements, although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the CFTC will adopt these rules as proposed or include comparable provisions in its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act may also require compliance with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with certain derivative activities, although the application of those provisions is uncertain at this time. The legislation may also require the counterparties to our commodity derivative contracts to spinoff some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty, or cause the entity to comply with the capital requirements, which could result in increased costs to counterparties such as us. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of some commodity derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of some commodity derivative contracts, reduce the availability of some derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing commodity derivative contracts and potentially increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to 40 Table of Contents make distributions or plan for and fund capital expenditures. Increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. If the Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations result in lower commodity prices, our revenues could be adversely affected. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and therefore could have an adverse effect on our ability to make distributions. Risks Primarily Related to Our Retail Business Our retail business depends on one principal supplier for a substantial portion of its merchandise inventory. A change of merchandise suppliers, a disruption in merchandise supply, a significant change in our relationship with our principal merchandise supplier or material changes in the payment terms or availability of trade credit provided by our merchandise suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our retail business and results of operations or liquidity. Eby-Brown Company (“Eby-Brown”) is a wholesale grocer that has been the primary supplier of general merchandise, including most tobacco and grocery items, for all our retail stores since 1993. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, our retail business purchased approximately 76% and 75%, respectively, of its convenience store inside merchandise requirements from Eby-Brown. Our retail business also purchases a variety of merchandise, including soda, beer, bread, dairy products, ice cream and snack foods, directly from a number of manufacturers and their wholesalers. A change of merchandise suppliers, a disruption in merchandise supply or a significant change in our relationship with Eby-Brown could have a material adverse effect on our retail business and results of operations. In addition, our retail business is impacted by the availability of trade credit to fund merchandise purchases. Any material changes in the payments terms, including payment discounts, or availability of trade credit provided by our merchandise suppliers could adversely affect our liquidity or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. If the locations of our current convenience stores become unattractive to customers and attractive alternative locations are not available for a reasonable price, then our ability to maintain and grow our retail business will be adversely affected. We believe that the success of any retail store depends in substantial part on its location. There can be no assurance that the locations of our retail stores will continue to be attractive to customers as demographic patterns change. Neighborhood or economic conditions where retail stores are located could decline in the future, resulting in potentially reduced sales in these locations. If we cannot obtain desirable locations at reasonable prices, our ability to maintain and grow our retail business could be adversely affected, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. The growth of our retail business depends in part on our ability to open and profitably operate new convenience stores and to successfully integrate acquired sites and businesses in the future. We may not be able to open new convenience stores and any new stores we open may be unprofitable. Additionally, acquiring sites and businesses in the future involves risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to be lower than expected. If these events were to occur, each would have a material adverse impact on our financial results. There are several factors that could affect our ability to open and profitably operate new stores or to successfully integrate acquired sites and businesses. These factors include: • competition in targeted market areas; • difficulties during the acquisition process in discovering certain liabilities of the businesses that we acquire; • the inability to identify and acquire suitable sites or to negotiate acceptable leases for such sites; 41 Table of Contents • difficulties associated with the growth of our financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources needed to support our future growth; • difficulties with hiring, training and retaining skilled personnel, including store managers; • difficulties in adapting distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores; • the potential inability to obtain adequate financing to fund our expansion; • limitations on investments contained in our revolving credit facility and other debt instruments; • difficulties in obtaining governmental and other third-party consents, permits and licenses needed to operate additional stores; • difficulties in obtaining any cost savings, accretion and financial improvements anticipated from future acquired stores or their integration; and • challenges associated with the consummation and integration of any future acquisition. Our retail store franchisees are independent business operators that could take actions that harm our brand, reputation or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our retail store franchisees are independent business operators, not employees, and, as such, we cannot control their operations. These franchisees could hire and fail to train unqualified sales associates and other employees, or operate the franchised retail stores in a manner inconsistent with our operating standards. If our retail store franchisees provide diminished quality of service to customers, or if they engage or are accused of engaging in unlawful or tortious acts, such as sexual harassment or discriminatory practices in violation of applicable laws, then our brand, reputation or goodwill could be harmed, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. Additionally, as independent business operators, our retail store franchisees could occasionally disagree with us or with our strategies regarding our retail business or with our interpretation of the rights and obligations set forth under our retail franchise agreement. This could lead to disputes with our retail store franchisees, which we expect to occur from time to time in the future as we continue to offer and sell retail store franchises. To the extent we have such disputes, the attention of our management and our retail store franchisees could be diverted, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. Credit and debit card data loss, litigation and/or liability could significantly harm our reputation and adversely impact our business. In connection with credit and debit card sales at our retail stores, we transmit confidential credit and debit card information securely over public networks. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of this customer information, and our security measures may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. If a person is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation. Our failure or inability to enforce our current and future trademarks and trade names could adversely affect our efforts to establish brand equity and expand our retail franchising business. Our ability to successfully expand our retail franchising business will depend on our ability to establish brand equity through the use of our current and future trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos. Some or all of these intellectual property rights 42 Table of Contents may not be enforceable, even if registered, against any prior users of similar intellectual property or our competitors who seek to use similar intellectual property in areas where we operate or intend to conduct operations. If we fail to enforce any of our intellectual property rights, then we may be unable to capitalize on our efforts to establish brand equity. We could encounter claims from prior users of similar intellectual property in areas where we operate or intend to conduct operations, which could result in additional expenditures and divert our management’s time and attention from our operations. Conversely, competing businesses, including any of our former retail store franchisees, could infringe on our intellectual property, which would necessarily require us to defend our intellectual property possibly at a significant cost to us. Our retail business is vulnerable to changes in consumer preferences, economic conditions and other trends and factors that could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our retail business is affected by consumer preferences, national, regional and local economic conditions, demographic trends and consumer confidence in the economy. Factors such as traffic patterns, weather conditions, local demographics and the number and locations of competing retail service stations and convenience stores also affect the performance of our retail stores. In addition, we cannot ensure that our retail customers will continue to frequent our retail stores or that we will be able to find new retail store franchisees or encourage our existing retail store franchisees to grow their franchised business or renew their franchise rights. Adverse changes in any of these trends or factors could reduce our retail customer traffic or sales, or impose limits on our pricing, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. We face the risk of litigation in connection with our retail operations. We are from time to time the subject of complaints or litigation from our consumers alleging illness, injury or other health or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may materially adversely affect us and our brand, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. In addition, employee claims against us based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination, or labor code violations may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our future performance. There is also a risk of litigation from our franchisees. We have been subject to a variety of these and other claims from time to time and a significant increase in the number of these claims or the number that are successful could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results or cash flows and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. Failure of our retail business to comply with state and local laws regulating the sale of alcohol and tobacco products could result in the loss of necessary licenses and the imposition of fines and penalties on us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. State and local laws regulate the sale of alcohol and tobacco products. In certain areas where our stores are located, state or local laws limit the hours of operation for the sale of alcohol, or prohibit the sale of alcohol, and permit the sale of alcohol and tobacco products only to persons older than a certain age. State and local regulatory agencies have the authority to approve, revoke, suspend or deny applications for, and renewals of, permits and licenses relating to the sale of alcohol and tobacco products and to issue fines to stores for the improper sale of alcohol and tobacco products. Most jurisdictions, in their permit and license applications, require an applicant to disclose past denials, suspensions, or revocations of permits or licenses relating to the sale of alcohol and tobacco products in any jurisdiction. Thus, if we experience a denial, suspension, or revocation in one jurisdiction, then it could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain permits and licenses relating to the sale of alcohol and tobacco products in other jurisdictions. In addition, the failure of our retail business to comply with state and local laws regulating the sale of alcohol and tobacco products could result in the loss of necessary licenses and the imposition of fines and penalties on us. Such a loss or imposition could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations and, as a result, our ability to make distributions. 43 Table of Contents Risks Related to an Investment in our Company We may not have sufficient available cash to pay any quarterly distribution on our units. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to enable us to pay any distributions to our unitholders. The amount we will be able to distribute on our common units principally depends on the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which is primarily dependent upon the operating margins we generate. Our operating margins, and thus, the cash we generate from operations have been volatile, and we expect that they will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the cost of refining feedstocks, such as crude oil, that are processed and blended into refined products; • the price at which we are able to sell refined products; • the level of our direct operating expenses, including expenses such as employee and contract labor, maintenance and energy costs; • non-payment or other non-performance by our customers and suppliers; and • overall economic and local market conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • our debt service requirements; • the amount of any accrued but unpaid expenses; • the amount of any reimbursement of expenses incurred by our general partner and its affiliates; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; • planned and unplanned maintenance at our facility, which, based on determinations by the board of directors of our general partner to maintain reserves, may negatively impact our cash flows in the quarter in which such maintenance occurs; • restrictions on distributions and on our ability to make working capital borrowings; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. Our partnership agreement does not require us to pay a minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of distributions that we pay, if any, and the decision to pay any distribution at all, will be determined by the board of directors of our general partner. Our quarterly distributions, if any, will be subject to significant fluctuations based on the above factors. For a description of additional restrictions and factors that may affect our ability to pay distributions, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Our Distribution Policy.” Restrictions in the agreements governing our indebtedness could limit our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Subject to certain exceptions, the indenture governing the 2020 Secured Notes and our revolving credit facility prohibit us from making distributions to unitholders if certain defaults exist. In addition, both the indenture and our revolving credit facility contain additional restrictions limiting our ability to pay distributions to unitholders. Subject to certain exceptions, the restricted payments covenant under the indenture restricts us 44 Table of Contents from making cash distributions unless our fixed charge coverage ratio, as defined in the indenture, is at least 1.75 to 1.0 after giving pro forma effect to such distributions. Our revolving credit facility generally restricts our ability to make cash distributions if we fail to have excess availability under the facility at least equal to the greater of (1) 25% of the lesser of (x) the $300 million commitment amount and (y) the then applicable borrowing base and (2) $37.5 million. Accordingly, we may be restricted by our debt agreements from distributing all of our available cash to our unitholders. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Description of Our Indebtedness.” The amount of our quarterly distributions, if any, will vary significantly both quarterly and annually and will be directly dependent on the performance of our business. Unlike most publicly traded partnerships, we will not have a minimum quarterly distribution or employ structures intended to consistently maintain or increase distributions over time. Investors who are looking for an investment that will pay predictable quarterly distributions should not invest in our common units. We expect our business performance will be more cyclical and volatile, and our cash flows will be less stable, than the business performance and cash flows of most publicly traded partnerships. As a result, our quarterly distributions will be cyclical and volatile and are expected to vary quarterly and annually. Unlike most publicly traded partnerships, we will not have a minimum quarterly distribution or employ structures intended to consistently maintain or increase distributions over time. The amount of our quarterly distributions will be dependent on the performance of our business, which will be volatile as a result of fluctuations in the price of crude oil and other feedstocks and the demand for our finished products. Because our quarterly distributions will be subject to significant fluctuations directly related to the available cash we generate, future quarterly distributions paid to our unitholders will vary significantly from quarter to quarter and may be zero. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Our Distribution Policy.” The amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which may be affected by non-cash items. For example, we may have working capital requirement changes as well as extraordinary capital expenditures and major maintenance expenses in the future. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Spending.” While these items may not affect our profitability in a quarter, they would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution with respect to such quarter. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we report losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we report net income. The board of directors of our general partner may modify or revoke our distribution policy at any time at its discretion. Our partnership agreement does not require us to pay any distributions at all. The board of directors of our general partner adopted a distribution policy pursuant to which we will distribute an amount equal to the available cash we generate each quarter. However, the board may change such policy at any time at its discretion and could elect not to pay distributions for one or more quarters. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Our Distribution Policy.” Our partnership agreement does not require us to pay any distributions at all. Accordingly, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the permanence of such a policy in making an investment decision. Any modification or revocation of our distribution policy could substantially reduce or eliminate the amounts of distributions to our unitholders. The amount of distributions we make, if any, and the decision to make any 45 Table of Contents distribution at all will be determined by the board of directors of our general partner, whose interests may differ from those of our public unitholders. Our general partner has limited fiduciary and contractual duties, which may permit it to favor its own interests or the interests of its owners, including ACON Refining and TPG Refining, to the detriment of our public unitholders. The board of directors of our general partner adopted a policy to distribute an amount equal to the available cash we generate each quarter, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. The board of directors of our general partner adopted a policy to distribute an amount equal to the available cash we generate each quarter to our unitholders. As a result, we will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As such, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because of our distribution policy, our growth, if any, may not be as robust as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures or as in-kind distributions, current unitholders may experience dilution and the payment of distributions on those additional units may decrease the amount we distribute on each outstanding unit. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, would reduce the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Our Distribution Policy.” Our general partner, the indirect owners of which include ACON Refining, TPG Refining and entities in which our President and Chief Executive Officer holds an interest, has fiduciary duties to its owners, and the interests of ACON Refining, TPG Refining and entities in which our President and Chief Executive Officer holds an interest may differ significantly from, or conflict with, the interests of our public unitholders. Our general partner is responsible for managing us. Although our general partner has fiduciary duties to manage us in a manner that it believes is in our best interests, the fiduciary duties are specifically limited by the express terms of our partnership agreement, and the directors and officers of our general partner also have fiduciary duties to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owners, which include ACON Refining, TPG Refining and Mr. Kuchta. The interests of ACON Refining, TPG Refining and Mr. Kuchta may differ from, or conflict with, the interests of our unitholders. In resolving these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests or the interests of its owners over our interests and those of our unitholders. The potential conflicts of interest include, among others, the following: • Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement will require the owners of our general partner to pursue a business strategy that favors us. The affiliates of our general partner have fiduciary duties to make decisions in their own best interests and in the best interest of their owners, which may be contrary to our interests. In addition, our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us or our unitholders, such as its owners, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders. • Our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under our partnership agreement and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without those limitations and reductions, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing common units, unitholders consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law. 46 Table of Contents • The board of directors of our general partner will determine the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, repayment of indebtedness and issuances of additional partnership interests, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. There is no limitation in our partnership agreement on the amounts our general partner can cause us to pay it or its affiliates. • Our general partner may exercise its rights to call and purchase all of our common units if at any time it and its affiliates own more than 90% of the units. • Our general partner will control the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates. In addition, our general partner will decide whether to retain separate counsel or others to perform services for us. • Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us. Our partnership agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner and restricts the remedies available to us and our common unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner, while also restricting the remedies available to our common unitholders for actions that, without these limitations and reductions, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Delaware partnership law permits such contractual reductions of fiduciary duty. By purchasing common units, common unitholders consent to some actions that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties applicable under state law. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example: • Our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to its capacity as general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, our common unitholders. Decisions made by our general partner in its individual capacity will be made by its owners and not by the board of directors of our general partner. Examples include the exercise of the general partner’s call right, its voting rights with respect to any common units it may own and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation or amendment to our partnership agreement. • Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed that the decisions were not adverse to the interests of our partnership. • Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner and the officers and directors of our general partner will not be liable for monetary damages to us for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or those persons acted in bad faith or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that such person’s conduct was unlawful. • Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is: • Approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; or 47 Table of Contents • Approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding units, excluding any units owned by our general partner and its affiliates. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our unitholders or the conflicts committee then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, taking any action or failing to act, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Our partnership agreement provides that a conflicts committee may be comprised of one or more directors. If we establish a conflicts committee with only one director, your interests may not be as well served as if we had a conflicts committee comprised of at least two independent directors. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder will become bound by the provisions of our partnership agreement, including the provisions described above. Northern Tier Holdings has the power to appoint and remove our general partner’s directors. Northern Tier Holdings has the power to elect all of the members of the board of directors of our general partner. Our general partner has control over all decisions related to our operations. See “Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance—Our Management.” Our public unitholders do not have an ability to influence any operating decisions and will not be able to prevent us from entering into any transactions. Furthermore, the goals and objectives of the owners of our general partner may not be consistent with those of our public unitholders. Common units are subject to our general partner’s call right. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 90% of our outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the units held by unaffiliated unitholders at a price not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. As a result, you may be required to sell your units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional units and then exercising its call right. Our general partner may use its own discretion, free of fiduciary duty restrictions, in determining whether to exercise this right. Our unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or our general partner’s directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right to elect our general partner or our general partner’s board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, will be chosen entirely by Northern Tier Holdings as the direct owner of the general partner and not by our common unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we will not hold annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders. Furthermore, even if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have no practical ability to remove our general partner. These limitations could adversely affect the price at which the common units will trade. 48 Table of Contents Our public unitholders will not have sufficient voting power to remove our general partner without Northern Tier Holdings’ consent. Our general partner may only be removed by a vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding units, including any units owned by our general partner and its affiliates (including Northern Tier Holdings). Northern Tier Holdings owns approximately 66.3% of our common units, which means holders of common units are not able to remove the general partner without the consent of Northern Tier Holdings. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units (other than our general partner and its affiliates and permitted transferees). Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, may not vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of common unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the ability of our common unitholders to influence the manner or direction of management. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce cash available for distribution to you. Prior to making any distribution on our outstanding units, we will reimburse our general partner for all expenses it incurs on our behalf including, without limitation, salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to its employees and executive officers who perform services for us. There are no limits contained in our partnership agreement on the amounts or types of expenses for which our general partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. The payment of these amounts, including allocated overhead, to our general partner and its affiliates could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Our Distribution Policy,” “Certain Relationships and Related Person Transactions.” Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. In the event that: (1) we make distributions to our unitholders when our nonrecourse liabilities exceed the sum of (a) the fair market value of our assets not subject to recourse liability and (b) the excess of the fair market value of our assets subject to recourse liability over such liability, or a distribution causes such a result, and (2) a unitholder knows at the time of the distribution of such circumstances, such unitholder will be liable for a period of three years from the time of the impermissible distribution to repay the distribution under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (the “Delaware Act”). Likewise, upon the winding up of the partnership, in the event that (1) we do not distribute assets in the following order: (a) to creditors in satisfaction of their liabilities; (b) to partners and former partners in satisfaction of liabilities for distributions owed under our partnership agreement; (c) to partners for the return of their contribution; and finally (d) to the partners in the proportions in which the partners share in distributions and (2) a unitholder knows at the time of such circumstances, then such unitholder will be liable for a period of three years from the impermissible distribution to repay the distribution under Section 17-804 of the Delaware Act. A purchaser of common units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to us that are known by the purchaser at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. 49 Table of Contents Our general partner’s interest in us and the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest in us to a third party without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of the owners of our general partner to transfer their equity interests in our general partner to a third party. The new equity owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and the officers of our general partner with its own choices and to influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers of our general partner. Our unit price could fluctuate The market price of our common units may be influenced by many factors including: • our operating and financial performance; • quarterly variations in our financial indicators, such as net (loss) earnings per unit, net income (loss) and revenues; • the amount of distributions we make and our earnings or those of other companies in our industry or other publicly traded partnerships; • strategic actions by our competitors; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates, or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage, by equity research analysts; • speculation in the press or investment community; • sales of our common units by us or other unitholders, or the perception that such sales may occur; • changes in accounting principles; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • actions by our unitholders; • general market conditions, including fluctuations in commodity prices; and • domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. As a result of these factors, investors in our common units may not be able to resell their common units at or above the price at which they purchased the units. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies like us. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common units, regardless of our operating performance. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned, and our unit price may suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to perform a comprehensive evaluation of its and its subsidiaries’ internal controls. To comply with these requirements, we will be required to document and test our internal control procedures, our management will be required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting, and, under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our independent auditors will be required to issue an opinion on management’s assessment and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will first be reported on in connection with the filing of our second Annual Report on Form 10-K. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our 50 Table of Contents internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses, which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the SEC rules implementing Section 404. If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or our auditors identify material weaknesses in our internal control, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and the price of our common units may suffer. We may issue additional common units and other equity interests without your approval, which could dilute your existing ownership interests. Under our partnership agreement, we are authorized to issue an unlimited number of additional interests without a vote of the unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • the proportionate ownership interest of unitholders immediately prior to the issuance will decrease; • the amount of cash distributions on each unit may decrease; • the ratio of our taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit will be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. In addition, our partnership agreement does not prohibit the issuance of equity interests by our subsidiary, which may effectively rank senior to the common units. Units eligible for future sale may cause the price of our common units to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common units to decline. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity interests. As of March 13, 2013, there were 91,949,017 units outstanding. 18,687,500 common units were sold to the public in our initial public offering, 12,305,000 were sold by Northern Tier Holdings in a secondary offering in January 2013 (the “Secondary Offering”) and an aggregate of 60,922,500 common units are owned by Northern Tier Holdings. The common units sold in our initial public offering and the secondary offering are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), by persons other than “affiliates,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, we are party to a registration rights agreement with Northern Tier Holdings LLC and certain of its indirect owners pursuant to which we may be required to register the sale of the units they hold under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly traded partnership. As a publicly traded partnership, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur prior to our initial public offering. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), require, or will require, publicly traded entities to adopt various corporate governance practices that will further increase our costs. Before we are able to pay distributions to our unitholders, we must first pay our expenses, including the costs of being a public company and other operating expenses. As a result, the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders will be affected by our expenses, including the costs associated with being a publicly traded partnership. We estimate that we will incur approximately $3.5 million of estimated incremental costs per year, some of which will be direct charges associated with being a publicly traded partnership and some of which will be allocated to us by our general partner and its affiliates; however, it is possible that our actual incremental costs of being a publicly traded partnership will be higher than we currently estimate. 51 Table of Contents Prior to our initial public offering, we have not filed reports with the SEC. Following our initial public offering, we became subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). We expect these requirements will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make compliance activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a publicly traded partnership, we are required to have at least three independent directors and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, including the preparation of reports on internal control over financial reporting. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our publicly traded company reporting requirements. As a publicly traded limited partnership we qualify for, and will rely on, certain exemptions from the NYSE’s corporate governance requirements. As a publicly traded partnership, we qualify for, and will rely on, certain exemptions from the NYSE’s corporate governance requirements, including: • the requirement that a majority of the board of directors of our general partner consist of independent directors; • the requirement that the board of directors of our general partner have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and • the requirement that the board of directors of our general partner have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. As a result of these exemptions, our general partner’s board of directors will not be comprised of a majority of independent directors and our general partner’s compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committee may not be comprised entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to equity holders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. See “Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporation Governance.” Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or if we were to become subject to a material additional amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on us being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. A publicly traded partnership such as us may be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless it satisfies a “qualifying income” requirement. “Qualifying income” includes (i) income and gains derived from the refining, transportation, processing and marketing of crude oil, natural gas and products thereof, (ii) interest (other than from a financial business), (iii) dividends, (iv) gains from the sale of real property and (v) gains from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of qualifying income. Based on our current operations we believe that we satisfy the qualifying income requirement and will be treated as a partnership. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. We have not requested, and we do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions and no 52 Table of Contents income, gains, losses, or deductions would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. At the state level, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such tax on us by any such state will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. One such legislative proposal would eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. You will be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because you will be treated as a partner to whom we will allocate a share of our taxable income which could be different than the cash we distribute, you may be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, even if you receive no cash distribution from us. You may not receive cash distribution from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability resulting from that income. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. Our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. We have a subsidiary that is treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes and subject to corporate-level income taxes. We conduct substantially all of the operations of our retail business through Northern Tier Retail Holdings LLC, which is our subsidiary and is organized as corporation for federal income tax purposes. Northern Tier Retail Holdings LLC currently holds all of the ownership interests in Northern Tier Retail LLC, Northern Tier Bakery LLC and SuperAmerica Franchising LLC. We may elect to conduct additional operations through this corporate subsidiary in the future. This corporate subsidiary is obligated to pay corporate income taxes, which reduce the corporation’s cash available for distribution to us and, in turn, to our unitholders. If the IRS were to successfully assert that this corporation has more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation were enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be further reduced. 53 Table of Contents The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Northern Tier Holdings owns more than 50% of the total interests in our capital and profits. If transfers within a twelve-month period of common units by Northern Tier Holdings, by itself or in combination with other transfers of common units, represent 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits, we will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest are counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders receiving two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in such unitholder’s taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine in a timely manner that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to its unitholders for the tax year in which the termination occurs. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions to you in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis in those units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to you due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized will include your share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, including individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”), other retirement plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and such non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Due to a number of factors including our inability to match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing and proposed Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount 54 Table of Contents of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. Nonetheless, we allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions based upon the date the underlying property is placed in service. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and although the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention, such regulations are not final and do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan of their units are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units. Unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders may become subject to other taxes, including state, local and non-U.S. taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own assets now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. We currently conduct business or own assets in several states, each of which imposes an income tax on corporations and other entities and a personal income tax. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in other states or non-U.S. countries that impose personal income tax. Unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of those various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the unitholder’s responsibility to file all federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 55 Table of Contents 