Risk Factors”. Historical Performance and Market Data This Form 20-F contains information relating to our business as well as historical performance and market data. When considering this data, you should bear in mind that historical results and market data may not be indicative of the future results that you should expect from us. Financial Information The financial information contained in this Form 20-F is presented in U.S. dollars and, unless otherwise indicated, has been prepared in accordance with IFRS. All figures are unaudited unless otherwise indicated. In this Form 20-F, all references to “$” are to U.S. dollars. Canadian dollars and Brazilian Reais are identified as “C$” and “R$”, respectively. Page 15 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING USE OF NON-IFRS MEASURES This Form 20-F contains references to Adjusted EBITDA, funds from operations and adjusted funds from operations which are not generally accepted accounting measures under IFRS and therefore may differ from definitions of Adjusted EBITDA, funds from operations and adjusted funds from operations used by other entities. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA, funds from operations and adjusted funds from operations are useful supplemental measures that may assist investors in assessing the financial performance and the cash anticipated to be generated by our operating portfolio. Neither Adjusted EBITDA, funds from operations nor adjusted funds from operations should be considered as the sole measure of our performance and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, analysis of our financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. As a result of the Combination, we have presented the measurements of the 2011 results on a pro forma basis. Reconciliations of each of Adjusted EBITDA, funds from operations, and adjusted funds from operations to net income on a consolidated and pro forma basis are presented in Item 5.A “Operating Results — Financial Review for the Years Ended December 31, 2013 and 2012”, Item 5.A “Operating Results — Financial Review for the Years Ended December 31, 2012 and 2011”, and Item 5.A “Operating Results — Reconciliation of Pro Forma Results.” Page 16 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. IDENTITY OF DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND ADVISERS Not applicable. ITEM 2. OFFER STATISTICS AND EXPECTED TIMETABLE Not applicable. ITEM 3. KEY INFORMATION 3.A SELECT FINANCIAL DATA The information in this section, excluding the Operational Information and distributions per unit set forth in the tables below, is derived from and should be read in conjunction with: (i) the audited consolidated financial statements of Brookfield Renewable as at December 31, 2013 and 2012, and for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 and related notes, and (ii) the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of (loss) income of Brookfield Renewable for the year ended December 31, 2011 and related notes, each of which is included elsewhere in this Form 20-F. We are providing unaudited pro forma financial results that include the impact of the Combination, new contracts and contract amendments, management service agreements along with the tax impacts resulting from the Combination, as if each had occurred as of January 1, 2011. The unaudited pro forma financial results have been prepared based upon currently available information and assumptions considered appropriate by management. The unaudited pro forma financial results are provided for information purposes only and may not be indicative of the results that would have occurred had the above transactions been effected on the date indicated. The accounting for certain of the Combination transactions in the audited consolidated financial statements of Brookfield Renewable for the year ended December 31, 2011 required the determination of fair value estimates at the date of the transaction on November 28, 2011 rather than the date assumed in the determination of the pro forma results of January 1, 2011. Capacity, long-term average and actual generation include facilities acquired or commissioned during the respective period ends. Long-term average and actual generation was calculated from the acquisition date or the commercial operation date, whichever is later. See Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects,” Item 8. “Financial Information” and Item 18. “Financial Statements”. Page 17 Table of Contents SUMMARY OF HISTORICAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OTHER INFORMATION (MILLIONS, EXCEPT AS NOTED) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Operational information(1): Capacity (MW) 5,849 5,304 4,536 4,309 4,198 Long-term average generation (GWh)(2) 21,836 18,202 16,297 15,887 15,529 Actual generation (GWh)(2) 22,222 15,942 15,877 14,480 15,833 Average revenue ($ per MWh) 77 82 74 72 62 Selected Financial Information: Revenues $ 1,706 $ 1,309 $ 1,169 $ 1,045 $ 984 Adjusted EBITDA(3) 1,208 852 804 751 743 Funds from operations(3) 594 347 332 269 324 Adjusted funds from operations(3) 538 295 284 221 276 Net income (loss) 215 (95) (451) 294 (580) Distributions per share Preferred equity(4) 1.18 1.27 1.34 1.03 - Limited partners' equity(5) 1.45 1.38 0.34 - - (MILLIONS, EXCEPT AS NOTED) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Balance sheet data: Restated (6) Property, plant and equipment, at fair value $ 15,741 $ 15,702 $ 14,002 $ 12,260 $ 12,969 Equity-accounted investments 290 344 405 269 283 Total assets 16,977 16,925 15,708 13,874 14,836 Long-term debt and credit facilities 6,623 6,119 5,519 4,994 4,663 Deferred income tax liabilities 2,265 2,349 2,367 2,424 2,773 Total liabilities 9,441 9,117 8,524 8,701 9,813 Preferred equity 796 500 241 252 - Participating non-controlling interests - in operating subsidiaries 1,303 1,028 629 206 197 General partnership interest in a holding subsidiary held by Brookfield 54 63 64 34 40 Participating non-controlling interests - in a holding subsidiary - Redeemable /Exchangeable units held by Brookfield 2,657 3,070 3,089 1,643 1,920 Limited partners' equity 2,726 3,147 3,161 1,683 1,967 Total liabilities and equity 16,977 16,925 15,708 13,874 14,836 Debt to total capitalization(7) 41% 38% 37% 40% 40% (1) Includes 100% of generation from equity-accounted investments. (2) For assets acquired or reaching commercial operation during the year, this figure is calculated from the acquisition or commercial operation date. (3) Non-IFRS measures. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Use of Non-IFRS Measures.” (4) Represents the weighted-average distribution to the Series 1, Series 3, Series 5 and Series 6 Shares. (5) Represents distributions per share to holders of Redeemable/Exchangeable Units, LP Units and general partnership interest. (6) Restated with the adoption of IAS 19R “Employee Benefits”. (7) Total capitalization is calculated as total debt plus deferred income tax liabilities, net of deferred income tax assets, and equity. Page 18 Table of Contents FINANCIAL REVIEW FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2013 TO 2009 The following table reflects the Adjusted EBITDA, funds from operations, adjusted funds from operations and the reconciliation to net income (loss) for the years indicated: (MILLIONS, EXCEPT AS NOTED) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Generation (GWh) - LTA 21,836 18,202 16,297 15,887 15,529 Generation (GWh) - actual(1) 22,222 15,942 15,877 14,480 15,833 Revenues $ 1,706 $ 1,309 $ 1,169 $ 1,045 $ 984 Other income 11 16 19 12 9 Share of cash earnings from equity-accounted investments 21 13 23 22 29 Direct operating costs (530) (486) (407) (328) (279) Adjusted EBITDA(2) 1,208 852 804 751 743 Interest expense – borrowings (410) (411) (411) (404) (348) Management service costs (41) (36) (1) - - Current income taxes (19) (14) (8) (32) (23) Less: cash portion of non-controlling interests Preferred equity (37) (16) (13) (10) - Participating non-controlling interests - in operating subsidiaries (107) (28) (39) (36) (48) Funds from operations(2) 594 347 332 269 324 Less: sustaining capital expenditures(3) (56) (52) (48) (48) (48) Adjusted funds from operations(2) 538 295 284 221 276 Add: cash portion of non-controlling interests 144 44 52 46 48 Add: sustaining capital expenditures(3) 56 52 48 48 48 Other items: Depreciation and amortization(4) (535) (483) (468) (446) (321) Unrealized financial instrument gain (loss) 37 (23) (20) 584 (791) Loss on Fund unit liability - - (376) (159) (244) Share of non-cash loss from equity-accounted investments (12) (18) (13) (7) (13) Deferred income tax recovery 18 54 50 3 335 Other (31) (16) (8) 4 82 Net income (loss) $ 215 $ (95) $ (451) $ 294 $ (580) Net income (loss) attributable to: Non-controlling interests Preferred equity $ 37 $ 16 $ 13 $ 10 $ - Participating non-controlling interests - in operating subsidiaries 41 (40) 11 25 28 General partnership interest in a holding subsidiary held by Brookfield 1 (1) (5) 3 (6) Participating non-controlling interests - in a holding subsidiary - Redeemable/ Exchangeable units held by Brookfield 67 (35) (232) 127 (297) Limited partners' equity 69 (35) (238) 129 (305) Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per LP Unit(5) $ 0.52 $ (0.26) $ (1.79) $ 0.97 $ (2.29) (1) Variations in generation are described under Item 5.A “Operating Results – Segmented Disclosures.” (2) Non-IFRS measures. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Use of Non-IFRS Measures.” (3) Based on long-term capital expenditure plans. (4) See Note 2(f) - Change in accounting estimates in our audited consolidated financial statements concerning changes in estimates related to depreciation expense. (5) Average LP Units outstanding during the year totaled 132.9 million (2012: 132.9 million and 2011: 132.8 million). Page 19 Table of Contents NET INCOME, ADJUSTED EBITDA, FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS, AND ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS ON A PRO FORMA BASIS There are no differences in capacity, long-term average and actual generation since the pro forma results reflect the same portfolio of assets as are reflected in the historical table below. The following table presents unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial data for Brookfield Renewable giving effect to the Combination for the year ended December 31, 2011 as if the Combination had occurred as of January 1, 2011: (MILLIONS, EXCEPT AS NOTED) Generation (GWh) - LTA 16,297 Generation (GWh) - actual 15,877 Average revenue ($ per MWh) 82 Revenues $ 1,309 Other income 19 Share of cash earnings from equity-accounted investments 23 Direct operating costs (425) Adjusted EBITDA(1) 926 Interest expense - borrowings (411) Management service costs (22) Current income taxes (8) Less: cash portion of non-controlling interests Preferred equity (13) Participating non-controlling interests - in operating subsidiaries (39) Funds from operations(1) 433 Less: sustaining capital expenditures(2) (48) Adjusted funds from operations(1) 385 Add: cash portion of non-controlling interests 52 Add: sustaining capital expenditures(2) 48 Other items: Depreciation and amortization (464) Share of non-cash loss from equity accounted investments (13) Deferred income tax (expense) recovery 60 Other 11 Net income $ 79 Net income attributable to: Non-controlling interests Preferred equity 13 Participating non-controlling interests - in operating subsidiaries 11 Participating non-controlling interests - in a holding subsidiary - Redeemable/Exchangeable units held by Brookfield 27 Limited partners' equity 28 Basic and diluted earnings per LP Unit(3) $ 0.21 (1) Non-IFRS measures. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Use of Non-IFRS Measures.” (2) Based on long-term capital expenditure plans. (3) Average LP Units outstanding during the year totaled 132.8 million. Page 20 Table of Contents 3.B CAPITALIZATION AND INDEBTEDNESS Not applicable. 3.C REASONS FOR THE OFFER AND USE OF PROCEEDS Not applicable. 3.D RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following factors in addition to the other information set forth in this Form 20-F. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected and the value of our LP Units would likely decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to BREP BREP is a recently formed partnership with a limited operating history and the historical and pro forma financial information included in this Form 20-F does not reflect the financial condition or operating results we would have achieved during the periods presented, and therefore may not be a reliable indicator of our future financial performance. BREP, which was formed on June 27, 2011 and acquired substantially all of its assets pursuant to the Combination in November 2011, has a limited operating history. Our lack of operating history will make it difficult for you to assess our ability to operate profitably and make distributions to LP Unitholders. Financial information for the periods prior to November 28, 2011 is presented based on the historical combined financial information for the contributed operations as previously reported by Brookfield. For the period after completion of the Combination, the results are based on the actual results of the new entity, BREP, including the adjustments associated with the Combination and the execution of several new and amended agreements, including PPAs and management service agreements. BREP is not, and does not intend to become, regulated as an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act (and similar legislation in other jurisdictions) and if BREP was deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to operate as contemplated. The Investment Company Act (and similar legislation in other jurisdictions) provides certain protections to investors and imposes certain restrictions on companies that are registered as investment companies. Among other things, such rules limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities and impose certain governance requirements. BREP has not been and does not intend to become regulated as an investment company and BREP intends to conduct its activities so it will not be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act (and similar legislation in other jurisdictions). In order to ensure that we are not deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to materially restrict or limit the scope of our operations or plans. We will be limited in the types of acquisitions that we may make, and we may need to modify our organizational structure or dispose of assets of which we would not otherwise dispose. Moreover, if anything were to happen, which would potentially cause BREP to be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act, it would be impractical for us to operate as intended. Agreements and arrangements between and among us and Brookfield would be impaired, the type and amount of acquisitions that we would be able to make as a principal would be limited, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Accordingly, we would be required to take extraordinary steps to address the situation, such as the amendment or termination of our Master Services Agreement, the restructuring of BREP and the Holding Entities, the amendment of the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BREP or the termination of BREP, any of which could materially adversely affect the value of our LP Units. In addition, if BREP were deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, it would be taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and such treatment could materially adversely affect the value of our LP Units. Page 21 Table of Contents BREP is a “foreign private issuer” under U.S. securities laws and is therefore subject to disclosure obligations different from requirements applicable to U.S. domestic registrants listed on the NYSE. Although BREP is subject to the periodic reporting requirement of the Exchange Act, the periodic disclosure required of foreign private issuers under the Exchange Act is different from periodic disclosure required of U.S. domestic registrants. Therefore, there may be less publicly available information about BREP than is regularly published by or about other public companies in the United States. BREP is exempt from certain other sections of the Exchange Act to which U.S. domestic issuers are subject, including the requirement to provide our LP Unitholders with information statements or proxy statements that comply with the Exchange Act. In addition, insiders and large LP Unitholders of BREP are not obligated to file reports under Section 16 of the Exchange Act, and certain corporate governance rules that are imposed by the NYSE will be inapplicable to BREP. We may be subject to the risks commonly associated with a separation of economic interest from control or the incurrence of debt at multiple levels within an organizational structure. Our ownership and organizational structure is similar to structures whereby one company controls another company which in turn holds controlling interests in other companies; thereby, the company at the top of the chain may control the company at the bottom of the chain even if its effective equity position in the bottom company is less than a controlling interest. Brookfield is the sole shareholder of the Managing General Partner and, as a result of such ownership of the Managing General Partner, Brookfield will be able to control the appointment and removal of the Managing General Partner’s directors and, accordingly, will exercise substantial influence over us. In turn, we often have a majority controlling interest or a significant influence in our investments. Even though Brookfield has an effective economic interest in our business of approximately 65% as a result of its ownership of our LP Units and the Redeemable/Exchangeable partnership units, over time Brookfield may reduce this economic interest while still maintaining its controlling interest, and, therefore, Brookfield may use its control rights in a manner that conflicts with the economic interests of our other LP Unitholders. For example, despite the fact that we have the Conflicts Policy in place, which addresses the requirement for independent approval and other requirements for transactions in which there is greater potential for a conflict of interest to arise, including transactions with affiliates of Brookfield, because Brookfield will be able to exert substantial influence over us, and, in turn, over our investments, there is a greater risk of transfer of assets of our investments at non-arm’s length values to Brookfield and its affiliates. In addition, debt incurred at multiple levels within the chain of control could exacerbate the separation of economic interest from controlling interest at such levels, thereby creating an incentive to leverage us and our investments. Any such increase in debt would also make us more sensitive to declines in revenues, increases in expenses and interest rates, and adverse market conditions. The servicing of any such debt would also reduce the amount of funds available to pay distributions to us and ultimately to our LP Unitholders. Our failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business in the future and the price of our LP Units. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management will be required to deliver a report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to deliver an attestation report on our management’s assessment of, and the operating effectiveness of, our internal controls over financial reporting in conjunction with their opinion on our audited consolidated financial statements. Any failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting or to implement required, new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to report material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting and could result in a more than remote possibility of errors or misstatements in our consolidated financial statements that would be material. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the price of our LP Units could decline. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business in the future, our access to the capital markets and investors’ perception of us. In addition, material weaknesses in our internal controls could require significant expense and management time to remediate. Page 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Operations and the Renewable Power Industry Changes to hydrology at our hydroelectric stations or in wind conditions at our wind energy facilities could materially adversely affect the volume of electricity generated. The revenues generated by our facilities are proportional to the amount of electricity generated which in turn is dependent upon available water flows and wind conditions. Hydrology and wind conditions have natural variations from season to season and from year to year and may also change permanently because of climate change or other factors. A natural disaster could also impact water flows within the watersheds in which we operate. Water rights are also generally owned or controlled by governments that reserve the right to control water levels or may impose water-use requirements as a condition of license renewal. Wind energy is highly dependent on weather conditions and, in particular, on wind conditions. The profitability of a wind farm depends not only on observed wind conditions at the site, which are inherently variable, but also on whether observed wind conditions are consistent with assumptions made during the project development phase. A sustained decline in water flow at our hydroelectric stations or in wind conditions at our wind energy facilities could lead to a material adverse change in the volume of electricity generated, revenues and cash flow. In Brazil, hydroelectric power generators have access to the MRE, which, within the limitation referred to below, stabilizes hydrology by assuring that all participant plants in the MRE receive a reference amount of electricity, approximating long-term average irrespective of the actual volume of energy generated whether above or below long-term average and substantially all our assets are part of that pool. In cases of nationwide drought, when the pool as a whole is in shortfall relative to the long-term average, an asset can expect to share the nationwide shortfall pro-rata with the rest of the pool. In addition, specific rules provide the minimum percentages of the reference amount of electricity that must be actually generated each year for assuring participation in the MRE. The energy reference amount is assessed yearly according to the criteria of such regulation, and can be adjusted positively or negatively. If the MRE is terminated or changed, or the Brookfield Renewable reference amount is revised, Brookfield Renewable’s financial results would be exposed to variations in hydrology in Brazil. Counterparties to our contracts may not fulfill their obligations and, as our contracts expire, we may not be able to replace them with agreements on similar terms. A significant portion of the power we generate is sold under long-term PPAs with Brookfield, public utilities or industrial or commercial end-users, some of whom may not be rated by any rating agency. For example, as at December 31, 2013 approximately 37% of our annual sales were with Brookfield entities which are not rated and whose obligations are not guaranteed by Brookfield Asset Management. If, for any reason, any of the purchasers of power under such PPAs, including Brookfield, are unable or unwilling to fulfill their contractual obligations under the relevant PPA or if they refuse to accept delivery of power pursuant to the relevant PPA, our assets, liabilities, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected as we may not be able to replace the agreement with an agreement on equivalent terms and conditions. External events, such as a severe economic downturn, could impair the ability of some counterparties to the PPAs or some end use customers to pay for electricity received. Certain portions of our hydroelectric portfolio will be subject to re-contracting in the future. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to re-negotiate these contracts once their terms expire, and even if we are able to do so, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to obtain the same prices or terms we currently receive. If we are unable to renegotiate these contracts, or unable to receive prices at least equal to the current prices we receive, our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects could be adversely affected. Conversely, a significant percentage of our sales will be made by facilities subject to indefinite term contracts with Brookfield (taking into account its rights of renewal) at fixed prices per MWh of our electricity sold. Accordingly, with respect to those facilities, our ability to realize improved revenues due to increases in market prices for renewable power may be limited. Increases in water rental costs (or similar fees) or changes to the regulation of water supply may impose additional obligations on Brookfield Renewable. Page 23 Table of Contents Water rights are generally owned or controlled by governments that reserve the right to control water levels or may impose water-use requirements as a condition of license renewal that differ from those arrangements in place today. We are required to make rental payments and pay property taxes for water rights or pay similar fees for use of water once our hydroelectric projects are in commercial operation. Significant increases in water rental costs or similar fees in the future or changes in the way that governments regulate water supply could have a material adverse effect on our assets, liabilities, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Supply and demand in the energy market, including the non-renewable energy market, is volatile and such volatility could have an adverse impact on electricity prices and a material adverse effect on Brookfield Renewable assets, liabilities, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. A portion of Brookfield Renewable’s revenues are tied, either directly or indirectly, to the wholesale market price for electricity in the markets in which Brookfield Renewable operates. Wholesale market electricity prices are impacted by a number of factors including: the price of fuel (for example, natural gas) that is used to generate other sources of electricity; the management of generation and the amount of excess generating capacity relative to load in a particular market; the cost of controlling emissions of pollution, including potentially the cost of carbon; the structure of the market; and weather conditions that impact electrical load. More generally, there is uncertainty surrounding the trend in electricity demand growth, which is greatly influenced by macroeconomic conditions, by absolute and relative energy prices, and by developments in energy conservation and demand-side management. Correspondingly, from a supply perspective, there are uncertainties associated with the timing of generating plant retirements – in part driven by environmental regulations – and with the scale, pace and structure of replacement capacity, again reflecting a complex interaction of economic and political pressures and environmental preferences. This volatility and uncertainty in the energy market, including the non-renewable energy market, could have a material adverse effect on Brookfield Renewable’s assets, liabilities, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our operations are highly regulated and may be exposed to increased regulation which could result in additional costs to Brookfield Renewable. Our generation assets are subject to extensive regulation by various government agencies and regulatory bodies in different countries at the federal, regional, state, provincial and local level. As legal requirements frequently change and are subject to interpretation and discretion, we may be unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. Any new law, rule or regulation could require additional expenditure to achieve or maintain compliance or could adversely impact our ability to generate and deliver energy. Also, operations that are not currently regulated may become subject to regulation which could result in additional cost to our business. Further, changes in wholesale market structures or rules, such as generation curtailment requirements or limitations to access the power grid, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from our facilities. In particular, Brazil’s proposed electricity sector measures adopted in 2012 could have a negative impact on power prices in Brazil. There is a risk that our concessions and licenses will not be renewed. We hold concessions and licenses and we have rights to operate our facilities which generally include rights to the land and water required for power generation. We expect that our rights and/or our licenses will be renewed by the applicable regulatory bodies in each country. However, if these regulatory bodies do not grant us renewal rights, or if they decide to renew our concessions and licenses, as the case may be, under conditions which would impose additional costs, or if additional restrictions such as setting a price ceiling for energy sales, our profitability and operational activity could be adversely impacted. Page 24 Table of Contents The cost of operating our plants could increase for reasons beyond our control. While we currently maintain a low and competitive cost position, there is a risk that increases in our cost structure that are beyond our control could materially adversely impact our financial performance. Examples of such costs include compliance with new conditions imposed during the relicensing process, municipal property taxes, water rental fees and the cost of procuring materials and services required for our maintenance activities. We may fail to comply with the conditions in, or may not be able to maintain, our governmental permits. Our generation assets and construction projects are required to comply with numerous federal, regional, state, provincial and local statutory and regulatory standards and to maintain numerous licenses, permits and governmental approvals required for operation. Some of the licenses, permits and governmental approvals that have been issued to our operations contain conditions and restrictions, or may have limited terms. If we fail to satisfy the conditions or comply with the restrictions imposed by our licenses, permits and governmental approvals, or the restrictions imposed by any statutory or regulatory requirements, we may become subject to regulatory enforcement action and the operation of the assets could be adversely affected or be subject to fines, penalties or additional costs or revocation of regulatory approvals, permits or licenses. In addition, we may not be able to renew, maintain or obtain all necessary licenses, permits and governmental approvals required for the continued operation or further development of our projects, as a result of which the operation or development of our assets may be limited or suspended. Our failure to renew, maintain or obtain all necessary licenses, permits or governmental approvals may have a material adverse effect on our assets, liabilities, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may experience equipment failure. Our generation assets may not continue to perform as they have in the past and there is a risk of equipment failure due to wear and tear, latent defect, design error, operator error, or early obsolescence, among other things, which could have a material adverse effect on our assets, liabilities, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In particular, wind generation turbines are less commercially proven than hydroelectric assets and have shorter lifespans. The occurrence of dam failures could result in a loss of generating capacity and repairing such failures could require us to expend significant amounts of capital and other resources. The occurrence of dam failures at any of our hydroelectric generating stations or the occurrence of dam failures at other generating stations or dams operated by third parties whether upstream or downstream of our hydroelectric generating stations could result in a loss of generating capacity and repairing such failures could require us to expend significant amounts of capital and other resources. Such failures could result in damage to the environment or damages and harm to third parties or the public, which could expose us to significant liability. We may be exposed to force majeure events. The occurrence of a significant event that disrupts the ability of our generation assets to produce or sell power for an extended period, including events which preclude existing customers from purchasing electricity, could have a material adverse effect on our assets, liabilities, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, force majeure events affecting our assets could result in damage to the environment or harm to third parties or the public, which could expose us to significant liability. Our generation assets could be exposed to effects of severe weather conditions, natural disasters and potentially catastrophic events such as a major accident or incident. An assault or an action of malicious destruction, sabotage or terrorism committed on our generation assets could also disrupt our ability to generate or sell power. In certain cases, there is the potential that some events may not excuse Brookfield Renewable from performing its obligations pursuant to agreements with third parties. Brookfield Renewable may be liable for damages or suffer further losses as a result. In addition, many of our generation assets are located in remote areas which may make access for repair of damage difficult. Page 25 Table of Contents We may be exposed to uninsurable losses. While we maintain insurance coverage, such insurance may not continue to be offered on an economically feasible basis and may not cover all events that could give rise to a loss or claim involving our assets or operations. If our insurance coverage is not adequate and we are forced to bear such losses or claims, our financial position could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to foreign currency risk which may adversely affect the performance of our operations. A significant portion of our current operations are in countries where the U.S. dollar is not the functional currency. These operations pay distributions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which we must convert to U.S. dollars prior to making distributions. A significant depreciation in the value of such foreign currencies or measures which may be introduced by foreign governments to control inflation or deflation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The ability to deliver electricity to our various counterparties requires the availability of and access to interconnection facilities and transmission systems. Our ability to sell electricity is impacted by the availability of, and access to, the various transmission systems to deliver power to its contractual delivery point and the arrangements and facilities for interconnecting the generation projects to the transmission systems. The absence of this availability and access, our inability to obtain reasonable terms and conditions for interconnection and transmission agreements, the operational failure of existing interconnection facilities or transmission facilities, the lack of adequate capacity on such interconnection or transmission facilities, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver electricity to our various counterparties or the requirement of counterparties to accept and pay for energy delivery, which could materially and adversely affect our assets, liabilities, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our operations are exposed to health, safety, security and environmental risks. The ownership, construction and operation of our generation assets carry an inherent risk of liability related to public safety, health, safety, security and the environment, including the risk of government imposed orders to remedy unsafe conditions and/or to remediate or otherwise address environmental contamination or damage. We could also be exposed to potential penalties for contravention of health, safety, security and environmental laws and potential civil liability. In the ordinary course of business we incur capital and operating expenditures to comply with health, safety, security and environmental laws to obtain and comply with licenses, permits and other approvals and to assess and manage related risks. The costs to comply with these laws (and any future laws or amendments enacted) may increase over time and result in additional material expenditures. We may become subject to government orders, investigations, inquiries or other proceedings (including civil claims) relating to health, safety, security and environmental matters as a result of which our operations may be limited or suspended. The occurrence of any of these events or any changes, additions to or more rigorous enforcement of health, safety, security and environmental laws could have a material and adverse impact on operations and result in additional material expenditures. Additional environmental, health and safety issues relating to presently known or unknown matters may require unanticipated expenditures, or result in fines, penalties or other consequences (including changes to operations) that may be material and adverse to our business and results of operations. Our renewable power business may be involved in disputes, governmental and regulatory investigations and possible litigation. In the normal course of our operations, Brookfield Renewable may become involved in various legal actions that could expose it to significant liability for damages. The outcome with respect to outstanding, pending or future actions cannot be predicted with certainty and may be adverse to us and as a result could have a material adverse effect on our assets, liabilities, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may be subject to governmental or regulatory investigations at any given time. Governmental and regulatory investigations, regardless of their outcome, could be costly, divert management attention, or damage our reputation. In particular, there has been increasing global Page 26 Table of Contents focus on the implementation and enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation by various governmental agencies, including the SEC and Department of Justice in the U.S. The unfavourable resolution of any governmental or regulatory investigation could result in criminal liability, fines, penalties or other monetary or non-monetary remedies and could materially affect our business or results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will not, from time to time, be subject to inquiries and investigations from governmental agencies. Page 27 Table of Contents The operation of our generating facilities could be affected by local communities. We may become impacted by the interests of local communities and stakeholders, including in some cases, First Nations and other aboriginal peoples, that affect the operation of our facilities. Certain of these communities may have or may develop interests or objectives which are different from or even in conflict with our objectives, including the use of our project lands and waterways near our facilities. Any such differences could have a negative impact on the successful operation of our facilities. As well, disputes surrounding, and settlements of, Aboriginal land claims regarding lands on or near which our generating assets reside could interfere with operations and/or result in additional operating costs or restrictions. We may suffer a significant loss resulting from fraud, bribery, corruption, other illegal acts, inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, or from external events. We may suffer a significant loss resulting from fraud, bribery, corruption, other illegal acts, inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, or from external events, such as the occurrence of disasters or security threats affecting our ability to operate. We operate in different markets and rely on our employees to follow our policies and processes as well as applicable laws in their activities. Risk of illegal acts or failed systems is managed through our infrastructure, controls, systems and people, complemented by central groups focusing on enterprise-wide management of specific operational risks such as fraud, trading, outsourcing, and business disruption, as well as personnel and systems risks. Specific programs, policies, standards and methodologies have been developed to support the management of these risks. These risks can result in direct or indirect financial loss, reputational impact or regulatory censure. We rely on computerized business systems. Our business places significant reliance on information technology. In addition, our business also relies upon telecommunication services to remotely monitor and control our assets and interface with regulatory agencies, wholesale power markets and customers. The information and embedded systems of key business partners and regulatory agencies are also important to our operations. In light of this, we may be subject to cybersecurity risks or other breaches of information technology security. A breach of our cyber/data security measures or the failure or malfunction of any of our computerized business systems, associated backup or data storage systems for a significant time period could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial reporting, financial condition and results of operations. There are general industry risks associated with operating in the North American and Brazilian power market sectors. We operate in the North American and Brazilian power market sectors, which are affected by competition, price, supply of and demand for power, the location of import/export transmission lines and overall political, economic and social conditions and policies. A general and extended decline in the North American or Brazilian economy or sustained conservation efforts to reduce electricity consumption could have the effect of reducing demand for electric energy over time, which, for example, occurred during the recent recession. Advances in technology could impair or eliminate the competitive advantage of our projects. There are other alternative technologies that can produce renewable power, such as fuel cells, microturbines and photovoltaic (solar) cells. These alternative technologies currently produce electricity at a higher average price than our generation facilities; however, research and development activities are ongoing to seek improvements in such alternative technologies and their cost of producing electricity is gradually declining. Additionally, research and developments activities are ongoing to seek improvements and reductions in carbon emissions from fossil fuel generation. It is possible that advances will further reduce the cost of alternative methods of power generation. If this were to happen, the competitive advantage of our projects may be significantly impaired or eliminated and our assets, liabilities, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected as a result. Page 28 Table of Contents There can be no guarantee that newly developed technologies that we invest in will perform as anticipated. We may invest in and use newly developed, less proven, technologies in our development projects or in maintaining or enhancing our existing assets. There is no guarantee that such new technologies will perform as anticipated. The failure of a new technology to perform as anticipated may materially and adversely affect the profitability of a particular development project. Performance of our Operating Entities may be harmed by future labor disruptions and economically unfavorable collective bargaining agreements. Certain of BREP’s subsidiaries are parties to collective agreements that expire periodically and those subsidiaries may not be able to renew their collective agreements without a labor disruption or without agreeing to significant increases in cost. In the event of a labor disruption such as a strike or lock-out, the ability of our generation assets to generate electricity may be impaired. Our results from operations and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected as a result. Risks Related to Financing Our ability to finance our operations is subject to various risks relating to the state of the capital markets. Brookfield Renewable has corporate debt and limited recourse project level debt, the majority of which is non-recourse to BREP, which will need to be replaced from time to time. Brookfield Renewable’s financings may contain conditions that limit its ability to repay indebtedness prior to maturity without incurring penalties, which may limit its capital markets flexibility. Refinancing risk includes, among other factors, dependence on continued operating performance of Brookfield Renewable’s assets, future electricity market prices, future capital markets conditions, the level of future interest rates and investors’ assessment of BREP’s credit risk at such time. In addition, certain of our financings are, and future financings may be, exposed to floating interest rate risks, and if interest rates increase, an increased proportion of our cash flow may be required to service indebtedness. Future acquisitions, development and construction of new facilities and other capital expenditures will be financed out of cash generated from our operations, borrowings and possible future sales of equity. Our ability to obtain financing to finance our growth is dependent on, among other factors, the overall state of the capital markets, continued operating performance of our assets, future electricity market prices, the level of future interest rates and investors’ assessment of our credit risk at such time, and investor appetite for investments in renewable energy and infrastructure assets in general and in Brookfield Renewable’s securities in particular. To the extent that external sources of capital become limited or unavailable or available on onerous terms, our ability to make necessary capital investments to construct new or maintain existing facilities will be impaired, and as a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to operating and financial restrictions through covenants in our loan, debt and security agreements. BREP, BRELP and its subsidiaries are or will in the future be subject to operating and financial restrictions through covenants in our loan, debt and security agreements. These restrictions prohibit or limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional debt, provide guarantees for indebtedness, create liens, dispose of assets, liquidate, dissolve, amalgamate, consolidate or effect corporate or capital reorganizations, declare distributions, issue equity interests, and create subsidiaries. A financial covenant in our bonds and in our corporate bank credit facilities limits our overall indebtedness to a percentage of total capitalization, a restriction which may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, withstand downturns in our business and take advantage of business and development opportunities. If we breach our covenants, our credit facilities may be terminated or come due and such event may cause our credit rating to deteriorate and subject Brookfield Renewable to higher interest and financing costs. We may also be required to seek additional debt financing on terms that include more restrictive covenants, require repayment on an accelerated schedule or impose other obligations that limit our ability to grow our business, acquire needed assets or take other actions that we might otherwise consider appropriate or desirable. Page 29 Table of Contents Changes in our credit ratings may have an adverse effect on our financial position and ability to raise capital. The credit rating assigned to BREP or any of our subsidiaries’ debt securities may not remain in effect for any given period of time. A rating may be changed or withdrawn entirely by the relevant rating agency. A lowering or withdrawal of such ratings may have an adverse effect on our financial position and ability to raise capital. Risks Related to Our Growth Strategy Government regulations providing incentives for renewable energy could change at any time. Development of renewable energy sources and the overall growth of the renewable energy industry are dependent on state or provincial, national and international policies in support of such development. In particular, Canada and the United States, two of our principal markets, and their respective provinces and states, have pursued for several years, and in many cases continue to pursue, policies of active support for renewable energy. In Brazil, SHPPs benefit from a special discount for the use of the transmission and distribution system which enables them to secure higher electricity prices in the market. Policies which incentivize the development of renewables include renewable energy purchase obligations imposed on local service entities, tax incentives, including investment tax credits, production tax credits and accelerated depreciation and direct subsidies. The attractiveness of renewable energy to purchasers, as well as the economic return available to project sponsors, is often dependent on the cost of fossil fuels as well as the level of incentives available, and the availability of such incentives is uncertain. There is a risk that government regulations providing incentives for renewable energy or increasing emission standards or other environmental regulation of traditional thermal coal-fired generation could change at any time in a manner not dissimilar from Canada’s decision to lower emission reduction targets following withdrawal from the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Any such change may impact the competitiveness of renewable energy generally and the economic value and ability to develop our projects in particular. In addition, some of these incentives are subject to sunset provisions which mean they will expire unless renewed. The budget difficulties facing many governments create greater challenges and uncertainty in getting incentives renewed. In addition, even if incentives are renewed prior to their expiration, uncertainty regarding renewal can create substantial risks and delays for developers of renewable power projects. As a result, we may face reduced ability to develop our project pipeline and realize our development growth objectives. We may also suffer material write-offs of development assets as a result. We may be unable to identify sufficient investment opportunities and complete transactions as planned. Our strategy for building LP Unitholder value is to seek to acquire or develop high-quality assets and businesses that generate sustainable and increasing cash flows, with the objective of achieving appropriate risk-adjusted returns on our invested capital over the long-term. However, there is no certainty that we will be able to find sufficient investment opportunities and complete transactions that meet our investment criteria. Our investment criteria consider, among other things, the financial, operating, governance and strategic merits of a proposed acquisition and, as such, there is no certainty that we will be able to acquire or develop additional high-quality assets at attractive prices to continue growing our business. Competition for assets is significant and competition from other well-capitalized investors or companies may significantly increase the purchase price or prevent us from completing an acquisition. Further, our growth initiatives are subject to a number of closing conditions, including, as applicable, third party consents, regulatory approvals (including competition authority) and other third party approvals that are beyond our control and may not be satisfied. If all or some of the growth initiatives are unable to be completed on the terms agreed, we may need to delay the acquisitions or terminate the acquisitions altogether. Future growth of our portfolio may subject us to additional risks and the expected benefits of our transactions may not materialize. Page 30 Table of Contents Our strategy is to continue to expand our business through acquisitions and developments. If we are not able to complete our growth initiatives as expected in whole or in part, we may not be able to identify alternative investments that are of a comparable quality to the those contemplated in the growth initiatives, in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, if the returns are lower than the returns anticipated from new acquisitions or projects, we may not be able to achieve growth in our distributions in line with our stated goals and the market value of our LP Units may decline. Further, acquisitions involve risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, including risks related to the integration of the assets or businesses and integration or retention of personnel relating to the acquired assets or companies and the inability to achieve potential synergies. In addition, liabilities may exist that Brookfield Renewable does not discover in its due diligence prior to the consummation of an acquisition, or circumstances may exist with respect to the entities or assets acquired that could lead to future liabilities and, in each case, Brookfield Renewable may not be entitled to sufficient, or any, recourse against the vendors or contractual counterparties to an acquisition agreement. The discovery of any material liabilities subsequent to an acquisition, as well as the failure of a new acquisition to perform according to expectations, could have a material adverse effect on Brookfield Renewable’s assets, liabilities, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. There are several factors which may affect our ability to develop existing sites and find new sites suitable for the development of greenfield power projects. Our ability to realize our greenfield development growth plans is dependent on our ability to develop existing sites and find new sites suitable for development into viable projects. Ability to maintain a development permit often requires specific development steps to be undertaken. Successful development of greenfield power projects, whether hydroelectric or wind, is typically dependent on a number of factors, including the ability to secure an attractive site on reasonable terms; the ability to measure resource availability at levels deemed economically attractive for continued project development; the ability to secure approvals, licenses and permits; the acceptance of local stakeholders, including in some cases, First Nations and other aboriginal peoples, of proposed developments; the ability to secure transmission interconnection access or agreements; and the ability to secure a long-term PPA or other sales contract on reasonable terms. Each of these factors can be critical in determining whether or not a particular development project might ultimately be suitable for construction. Failure to achieve any one of these elements may prevent the development and construction of a project. When this occurs we may lose all of our investment in development expenditures and may be required to write-off project development assets. The development of our generating facilities is subject to various construction risks and risks associated with the various types of arrangements we enter into with communities and joint venture partners. Our ability to develop an economically successful project is dependent on, among other things, our ability to construct a particular project on-time and on-budget. The construction and development of generating facilities is subject to various environmental, engineering and construction risks that could result in cost-overruns, delays and reduced performance. A number of factors that could cause such delays, cost over-runs or reduced performance include, but are not limited to, permitting delays, changing engineering and design requirements, the costs of construction, the performance and necessary experience of contractors, labor disruptions and inclement weather. In addition, we enter into various types of arrangements with communities and joint venture partners, including in some cases, First Nations and other aboriginal peoples, for the development of projects. Certain of these communities and partners may have or may develop interests or objectives which are different from or even in conflict with our objectives. Any such differences could have a negative impact on the success of our projects. Brookfield has no obligation to source acquisition opportunities for us and we may not have access to all renewable power acquisitions that Brookfield identifies. Our ability to grow through acquisitions depends on Brookfield’s ability to identify and present us with acquisition opportunities. Brookfield established BREP to hold and acquire renewable power generating operations or developments on a global basis. However, Brookfield has no obligation to source acquisition opportunities specifically for us. In addition, Brookfield has not agreed to commit to us any minimum level of dedicated resources for the pursuit of renewable power-related acquisitions. There Page 31 Table of Contents are a number of factors which could materially and adversely impact the extent to which suitable acquisition opportunities are made available from Brookfield, for example: · it is an integral part of Brookfield’s (and our) strategy to pursue the acquisition or development of renewable power assets through consortium arrangements with institutional investors, strategic partners or financial sponsors and to form partnerships to pursue such acquisitions on a specialized or global basis. Although Brookfield has agreed with us that it will not enter any such arrangements that are suitable for us without giving us an opportunity to participate in them, there is no minimum level of participation to which we will be entitled; · the same professionals within Brookfield’s organization that are involved in acquisitions that are suitable for us are responsible for the consortiums and partnerships referred to above, as well as having other responsibilities within Brookfield’s broader asset management business. Limits on the availability of such individuals will likewise result in a limitation on the availability of acquisition opportunities for us; · Brookfield will only recommend acquisition opportunities that it believes are suitable for us. Our focus is on assets where we believe that our operations-oriented approach can be deployed to create value. Accordingly, opportunities where Brookfield cannot play an active role in influencing the underlying operating company or managing the underlying assets may not be suitable for us, even though they may be attractive from a purely financial perspective. Legal, regulatory, tax and other commercial considerations will likewise be an important consideration in determining whether an opportunity is suitable and could limit our ability to participate in these certain investments; · in addition to structural limitations, the question of whether a particular acquisition is suitable is highly subjective and is dependent on a number of factors including an assessment by Brookfield relating to our liquidity position at the time, the risk profile of the opportunity, its fit with the balance of our then current operations and other factors. If Brookfield determines that an opportunity is not suitable for us, it may still pursue such opportunity on its own behalf, or on behalf of a Brookfield sponsored partnership or consortium. In making these determinations, Brookfield may be influenced by factors that result in a misalignment or conflict of interest. See Item 7.B “Related Party Transactions — Conflicts of Interest and Fiduciary Duties”. We do not have control over all our operations. We have structured some of our operations as joint ventures, partnerships and consortium arrangements. An integral part of our strategy is to participate with institutional investors in Brookfield sponsored or co-sponsored consortiums for single asset acquisitions and as a partner in or alongside Brookfield sponsored or co-sponsored partnerships that target acquisitions that suit our profile. These arrangements are driven by the magnitude of capital required to complete acquisitions of renewable assets and other industry-wide trends that we believe will continue. Such arrangements involve risks not present where a third party is not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Additionally, partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals different from Brookfield Renewable and Brookfield. Joint ventures, partnerships and consortium investments generally provide for a reduced level of control over an acquired company because governance rights are shared with others. Accordingly, decisions relating to the underlying operations, including decisions relating to the management and operation and the timing and nature of any exit, are often made by a majority vote of the investors or by separate agreements that are reached with respect to individual decisions. In addition, such operations may be subject to the risk that the company may make business, financial or management decisions with which we do not agree or the management of the company may take risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve our interests. Because we may not have the ability to exercise control over such operations, we may not be able to realize some or all of the benefits that we believe will be created from Page 32 Table of Contents Brookfield’s involvement. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer as a result. In addition, all of our current operations with less than 100% ownership are structured joint ventures, partnerships, consortium arrangements or leasehold interests. The sale or transfer of interests in some of these operations are subject to rights of first refusal or first offer, tag along rights or drag along rights and some agreements in these operations provide for buy-sell or similar arrangements. Such rights may be triggered at a time when we may not want them to be exercised and such rights may inhibit our ability to sell our interest in an entity within the desired time frame or on any other desired basis. In addition, the operations are also all subject to pre-emptive or default rights which may lead to the joint venture or third parties compulsorily acquiring assets from the joint venture. Page 33 Table of Contents We may be required to issue equity or debt for future acquisitions and developments and our ability to do so will be dependent on the overall state of the capital markets. Future acquisitions and developments, construction of new facilities and other capital expenditures will be financed out of cash generated from our operations, borrowings and possible future sales of equity. As such, financing our growth may depend on raising additional equity and/or debt capital. Our ability to do so is dependent on, among other factors, our credit rating, the overall state of the capital markets and investor appetite for investments in renewable energy assets in general and our securities in particular. We may pursue acquisitions in new markets that are subject to foreign laws or regulation that are more onerous than the laws and regulations we are currently subject to. We may pursue acquisitions in new markets that are subject to regulation by various foreign governments and regulatory authorities and to the application of foreign laws. Such foreign laws or regulations may not provide for the same type of legal certainty and rights, in connection with our contractual relationships in such countries, as are afforded to our projects in Canada, the United States and Brazil, which may adversely affect our ability to receive revenues or enforce our rights in connection with our foreign operations. In addition, the laws and regulations of some countries may limit our ability to hold a majority interest in some of the projects that we may develop or acquire, thus limiting our ability to control the development, construction and operation of such projects. Any existing or new operations may also be subject to significant political, economic and financial risks, which vary by country, and may include: · changes in government policies or personnel; · changes in general economic conditions; · restrictions on currency transfer or convertibility; · changes in labor relations; · political instability and civil unrest; · regulatory or other changes in the local electricity market; and · breach or repudiation of important contractual undertakings by governmental entities and expropriation and confiscation of assets and facilities for less than fair market value. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Brookfield Brookfield will exercise substantial influence over Brookfield Renewable and we are highly dependent on the Service Provider. A subsidiary of Brookfield Asset Management is the sole shareholder of the Managing General Partner. As a result of its ownership of the Managing General Partner, Brookfield will be able to control the appointment and removal of the Managing General Partner’s directors and, accordingly, exercise substantial influence over Brookfield Renewable. In addition, BREP holds its interest in the Operating Entities indirectly and will hold any future acquisitions indirectly through BRELP, the general partner of which is indirectly owned by Brookfield. As BREP’s only substantial asset is the limited partnership interests that it holds in BRELP, except future rights under the Voting Agreement, BREP will not have a right to participate directly in the management or activities of BRELP or the Holding Entities, including with respect to the making of decisions (although it will have the right to remove and replace the BRELP GP LP). BREP and BRELP depend on the management and administration services provided by or under the direction of the Service Provider under our Master Services Agreement. Brookfield personnel and support staff that provide services to us under our Master Services Agreement are not required to have as their primary responsibility the management and administration of BREP or BRELP or to act exclusively for either of us and our Master Services Agreement does not require any specific individuals to be provided by Brookfield or BREP. Any failure to effectively manage our current operations or to implement our strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and Page 34 Table of Contents results of operations. Our Master Services Agreement continues in perpetuity, until terminated in accordance with its terms. The departure of some or all of Brookfield’s professionals could prevent us from achieving our objectives. We will depend on the diligence, skill and business contacts of Brookfield’s professionals and the information and opportunities they generate during the normal course of their activities. Our future success will depend on the continued service of these individuals, who are not obligated to remain employed with Brookfield. Brookfield has experienced departures of key professionals in the past and may do so in the future, and we cannot predict the impact that any such departures will have on our ability to achieve our objectives. The departure of a significant number of Brookfield’s professionals for any reason, or the failure to appoint qualified or effective successors in the event of such departures, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our objectives. The Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BREP and our Master Services Agreement do not require Brookfield to maintain the employment of any of its professionals or to cause any particular professionals to provide services to us or on our behalf. The role and ownership of Brookfield may change. Our arrangements with Brookfield do not require Brookfield to maintain any ownership level in BREP or in BRELP. Accordingly, the Managing General Partner may transfer its general partnership interest to a third party, including in a merger or consolidation or in a transfer of all or substantially all of its assets, without the consent of our LP Unitholders provided the transferee is an affiliate of the BRELP General Partner. In addition, Brookfield may sell or transfer all or part of its interests in the Service Provider or in the Managing General Partner, in each case, without the approval of our LP Unitholders. If a new owner were to acquire ownership of the Managing General Partner and to appoint new directors or officers of its own choosing, it would be able to exercise substantial influence over Brookfield Renewable’s policies and procedures and exercise substantial influence over our management and the types of acquisitions that we make. Such changes could result in Brookfield Renewable’s capital being used to make acquisitions in which Brookfield has no involvement or in making acquisitions that are substantially different from our targeted acquisitions. Additionally, BREP cannot predict with any certainty the effect that any transfer in the ownership of the Managing General Partner would have on the trading price of our LP Units or Brookfield Renewable’s ability to raise capital or make investments in the future, because such matters would depend to a large extent on the identity of the new owner and the new owner’s intentions with regard to BREP. As a result, the future of BREP would be uncertain and Brookfield Renewable’s business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Brookfield is not necessarily required to act in the best interests of the Service Recipients, Brookfield Renewable or our LP Unitholders. Our Master Services Agreement and our other arrangements with Brookfield do not impose any duty on the Service Provider to act in the best interest of the Service Recipients, and the Service Provider is not prohibited from engaging in other business activities that compete with the Service Recipients. Additionally, the Managing General Partner, the general partner of BRELP, the Service Provider and their affiliates will have access to material confidential information. Although some of these entities will be subject to confidentiality obligations pursuant to confidentiality agreements or pursuant to implied duties of confidence, none of the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BREP, the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BRELP nor our Master Services Agreement contains general confidentiality provisions. See Item 7.B “Related Party Transactions — Conflicts of Interest and Fiduciary Duties”. Our Master Services Agreement and our other arrangements with Brookfield do not impose on Brookfield any fiduciary duties to act in the best interests of our LP Unitholders. Our Master Services Agreement and our other arrangements with Brookfield do not impose on Brookfield any duty (statutory or otherwise) to act in the best interests of the Service Recipients, nor do they impose other duties that are fiduciary in nature. As a result, the Managing General Partner, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Brookfield Asset Management, in its capacity as our general partner, will have sole Page 35 Table of Contents authority to enforce the terms of such agreements and to consent to any waiver, modification or amendment of their provisions in accordance with our conflicts policy. The Bermuda Limited Partnership Act of 1883, under which BREP and BRELP were established, does not impose statutory fiduciary duties on a general partner of a limited partnership in the same manner that corporate statutes, such as the Canada Business Corporations Act and the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, impose fiduciary duties on directors of a corporation. In general, under applicable Bermudian legislation, a general partner has certain limited duties to its limited partners, such as the duty to render accounts, account for private profits and not compete with the partnership in business. In addition, Bermuda common law recognizes that a general partner owes a duty of utmost good faith to its limited partners. These duties are, in most respects, similar to duties imposed on a general partner of a limited partnership under U.S. and Canadian law. However, to the extent that the Managing General Partner and BRELP GP LP owe any fiduciary duties to Brookfield Renewable and our LP Unitholders, these duties have been modified pursuant to the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BREP and the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BRELP as a matter of contract law. We have been advised by Bermuda counsel that such modifications are not prohibited under Bermuda law, subject to typical qualifications as to enforceability of contractual provisions, such as the application of general equitable principles. This is similar to Delaware law which expressly permits modifications to the fiduciary duties owed to partners, other than an implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing. The Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BREP and the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BRELP contain various provisions that modify the fiduciary duties that might otherwise be owed to Brookfield Renewable and our LP Unitholders, including when conflicts of interest arise. For example, the agreements provide that the Managing General Partner, the BRELP General Partner and their affiliates do not have any obligation under the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreements of BREP or the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BRELP, or as a result of any duties stated or implied by law or equity, including fiduciary duties, to present business or investment opportunities to BREP, BRELP, any Holding Entity or any other holding entity established by us. They also allow affiliates of the Managing General Partner and BRELP General Partner to engage in activities that may compete with us or our activities. Further, when resolving conflicts of interest, neither the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BREP nor the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BRELP impose limitations on the discretion of the independent directors or the factors which they may consider in resolving any such conflicts. The independent directors of our Managing General Partner can therefore take into account the interests of third parties, including Brookfield, when resolving conflicts of interest. These modifications to the fiduciary duties are detrimental to our LP Unitholders because they restrict the remedies available for actions that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary duty and permit conflicts of interest to be resolved in a manner that is not in the best interests of Brookfield Renewable or the best interests of our LP Unitholders. See Item 7.B. “Related Party Transactions — Conflicts of Interest and Fiduciary Duties”. Our organizational and ownership structure may create significant conflicts of interest that may be resolved in a manner that is not in the best interests of Brookfield Renewable or the best interests of our LP Unitholders. Our organizational and ownership structure involves a number of relationships that may give rise to conflicts of interest between Brookfield Renewable and our LP Unitholders, on the one hand, and Brookfield, on the other hand. In certain instances, the interests of Brookfield may differ from the interests of Brookfield Renewable and our LP Unitholders, including with respect to the types of acquisitions made, the timing and amount of distributions by BREP, the reinvestment of returns generated by our operations, the use of leverage when making acquisitions and the appointment of outside advisers and service providers, including as a result of the reasons described under Item 7.B “Related Party Transactions”. In addition, the Service Provider, an affiliate of Brookfield, will provide management services to us pursuant to our Master Services Agreement. Pursuant to our Master Services Agreement, we pay a base management fee to the Service Provider equal to $20 million (which amount shall be adjusted for inflation annually beginning on January 1, 2013, at an inflation factor based on year over year U.S. consumer price index) plus 1.25% of the amount by which the Total Capitalization Value (which is generally Page 36 Table of Contents determined with reference to the aggregate of the value of all outstanding LP Units, assuming full conversion of Brookfield’s limited partnership interests in BRELP into LP Units, and securities of the other Service Recipients that are not held by Brookfield Renewable, plus all outstanding third party debt with recourse to BREP, BRELP or a Holding Entity, less all cash held by such entities) of BREP exceeds an initial reference value determined based on its market capitalization immediately following the Combination. In the event that the measured Total Capitalization Value of BREP in a given period is less than the initial reference value, the Service Provider will receive a base management fee of $20 million annually (subject to an annual escalation by a specified inflation factor beginning on January 1, 2013). BRELP GP LP will also receive incentive distributions based on the amount by which quarterly distributions on the limited partnership units of BRELP exceed specified target levels as set forth in the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BRELP. For a further explanation of the management fee and incentive distributions, see Item 6.A “Directors and Senior Management — Our Master Services Agreement — Management Fee” and Item 7.B “Related Party Transactions — Incentive Distributions”. This relationship may give rise to conflicts of interest between us and our LP Unitholders, on the one hand, and Brookfield, on the other, as Brookfield’s interests may differ from the interests of Brookfield Renewable and our LP Unitholders. The Managing General Partner, the sole shareholder of which is Brookfield, has sole authority to determine whether we will make distributions and the amount and timing of these distributions. The arrangements we have with Brookfield may create an incentive for Brookfield to take actions which would have the effect of increasing distributions and fees payable to it, which may be to the detriment of us and our LP Unitholders. For example, because the base management fee is calculated based on the Total Capitalization Value it may create an incentive for Brookfield to increase or maintain the Total Capitalization Value over the near-term when other actions may be more favorable to us or our LP Unitholders. Similarly, Brookfield may take actions to increase our distributions in order to ensure Brookfield is paid incentive distributions in the near-term when other investments or actions may be more favorable to us or our LP Unitholders. Also, through Brookfield’s ownership of our LP Units and the Redeemable/Exchangeable partnership units, it will have an effective economic interest in our business of approximately 65% and therefore may be incented to increase distributions payable to our LP Unitholders and thereby to Brookfield. The Managing General Partner may be unable or unwilling to terminate our Master Services Agreement. Our Master Services Agreement provides that the Service Recipients may terminate the agreement only if: the Service Provider defaults in the performance or observance of any material term, condition or covenant contained in the agreement in a manner that results in material harm to the Service Recipients and the default continues unremedied for a period of 60 days after written notice of the breach is given to the Service Provider; the Service Provider engages in any act of fraud, misappropriation of funds or embezzlement against any Service Recipient that results in material harm to us; the Service Provider is grossly negligent in the performance of its duties under the agreement and such negligence results in material harm to the Service Recipients; or upon the happening of certain events relating to the bankruptcy or insolvency of the Service Provider. The Managing General Partner cannot terminate the agreement for any other reason, including if the Service Provider or Brookfield experiences a change of control or due solely to the poor performance or under-performance of Brookfield Renewable’s operations or assets, and the agreement continues in perpetuity, until terminated in accordance with its terms. In addition, because the Managing General Partner is an affiliate of Brookfield, it may be unwilling to terminate our Master Services Agreement, even in the case of a default. If the Service Provider’s performance does not meet the expectations of investors, and the Managing General Partner is unable or unwilling to terminate our Master Services Agreement, the market price of our LP Units could suffer. Furthermore, the termination of our Master Services Agreement would terminate BREP’s rights under the Relationship Agreement and the Licensing Agreement. See Item 7.B “Related Party Transactions — Relationship Agreement” and Item 7.B “Related Party Transactions — Licensing Agreement”. Page 37 Table of Contents The liability of the Service Provider is limited under our arrangements with it and we have agreed to indemnify the Service Provider against claims that it may face in connection with such arrangements, which may lead it to assume greater risks when making decisions relating to us than it otherwise would if acting solely for its own account. Under our Master Services Agreement, the Service Provider has not assumed any responsibility other than to provide or arrange for the provision of the services described in our Master Services Agreement in good faith and will not be responsible for any action that the Managing General Partner takes in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. In addition, under the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BREP, the liability of the Managing General Partner and its affiliates, including the Service Provider, is limited to the fullest extent permitted by law to conduct involving bad faith, fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, action that was known to have been unlawful. The liability of the Service Provider under our Master Services Agreement is similarly limited, except that the Service Provider is also liable for liabilities arising from gross negligence. In addition, BREP has agreed to indemnify the Service Provider to the fullest extent permitted by law from and against any claims, liabilities, losses, damages, costs or expenses incurred by an indemnified person or threatened in connection with our operations, investments and activities or in respect of or arising from our Master Services Agreement or the services provided by the Service Provider, except to the extent that the claims, liabilities, losses, damages, costs or expenses are determined to have resulted from the conduct in respect of which such persons have liability as described above. These protections may result in the Service Provider tolerating greater risks when making decisions than otherwise would be the case, including when determining whether to use leverage in connection with acquisitions. The indemnification arrangements to which the Service Provider is a party may also give rise to legal claims for indemnification that are adverse to Brookfield Renewable and our LP Unitholders. Risks Related to Our LP Units Our LP Units have limited trading history, are not currently included in major market indices, and an active and liquid trading market for our LP Units may not develop. Our LP Units have only been trading on the TSX since November 30, 2011 and on the NYSE since June 11, 2013 and are not included in major market indices. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest will lead to the development of an active and liquid trading market for our LP Units or, if such a market develops, whether it will be maintained. We cannot predict the effects on the price of our LP Units if a liquid and active trading market for our LP Units does not develop and if our LP Units continue to not be eligible for inclusion in trading indices. In addition, if such a market does not develop, relatively small sales of our LP Units may have a significant negative impact on the price of our LP Units. We may need additional funds in the future and BREP may issue additional LP Units in lieu of incurring indebtedness which may dilute existing holders of our LP Units or BREP may issue securities that have rights and privileges that are more favorable than the rights and privileges accorded to our LP Unitholders. Under the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BREP, BREP may issue additional partnership securities, including LP Units and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to partnership securities for any purpose and for such consideration and on such terms and conditions as the Managing General Partner may determine. The Managing General Partner’s board of directors will be able to determine the class, designations, preferences, rights, powers and duties of any additional partnership securities, including any rights to share in BREP’s profits, losses and distributions, any rights to receive partnership assets upon a dissolution or liquidation of BREP and any redemption, conversion and exchange rights. The Managing General Partner may use such authority to issue additional LP Units, which could dilute holders of our LP Units, or to issue securities with rights and privileges that are more favorable than those of our LP Units. Holders of LP Units will not have any pre-emptive right or any right to consent to or otherwise approve the issuance of any such securities or the terms on which any such securities may be issued. Page 38 Table of Contents Our LP Unitholders do not have a right to vote on BREP matters or to take part in the management of BREP. Under the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BREP, our LP Unitholders are not entitled to vote on matters relating to BREP, such as acquisitions, dispositions or financing, or to participate in the management or control of BREP. In particular, our LP Unitholders do not have the right to remove the Managing General Partner, to cause the Managing General Partner to withdraw from BREP, to cause a new general partner to be admitted to BREP, to appoint new directors to the Managing General Partner’s board of directors, to remove existing directors from the Managing General Partner’s board of directors or to prevent a change of control of the Managing General Partner. In addition, except as prescribed by applicable laws, our LP Unitholders’ consent rights apply only with respect to certain amendments to the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BREP. As a result, unlike holders of common shares of a corporation, our LP Unitholders are not able to influence the direction of BREP, including its policies and procedures, or to cause a change in its management, even if they are unsatisfied with the performance of BREP. Consequently, our LP Unitholders may be deprived of an opportunity to receive a premium for their LP Units in the future through a sale of BREP and the trading price of our LP Units may be adversely affected by the absence or a reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. The market price of our LP Units may be volatile. The market price of our LP Units may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our LP Units include: general market and economic conditions, including disruptions, downgrades, credit events and perceived problems in the credit markets; actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or distributions; changes in our investments or asset composition; write-downs or perceived credit or liquidity issues affecting our assets; market perception of BREP, our business and our assets; our level of indebtedness and/or adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we incur in the future; our ability to raise capital on favorable terms; loss of any major funding source; the termination of our Master Services Agreement or additions or departures of our or Brookfield’s key personnel; changes in market valuations of similar renewable power companies; speculation in the press or investment community regarding us or Brookfield; and changes in U.S. tax laws that make it impractical or impossible for BREP to continue to be taxable as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Securities markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies or partnerships. Any broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our LP Units. Non-U.S. Holders may be subject to foreign currency risk associated with BREP’s distributions. A significant number of BREP’s LP Unitholders may reside in countries where the U.S. dollar is not the functional currency. Our distributions are denominated in U.S. dollars but may be settled in the local currency of the LP Unitholder receiving the distribution. For each Non-U.S. Holder, the value received in the local currency from the distribution will be determined based on the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the applicable local currency at such time. As such, if the U.S. dollar depreciates significantly against the local currency of the Non-U.S. Holder, the value received by such LP Unitholder in its local currency will be adversely affected. U.S. investors in our LP Units may find it difficult or impossible to enforce service of process and enforcement of judgments against us and directors and officers of the Managing General Partner and the Service Provider. We were established under the laws of Bermuda, and many of our subsidiaries are organized in jurisdictions outside of Canada and the United States. In addition, our executive officers and the experts identified in this Form 20-F are located outside of the United States and some are also located outside of Canada. Certain of the directors and officers of the Managing General Partner and the Service Provider reside outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our assets are, and the assets of the directors and officers of the Managing General Partner and the Service Provider and the experts identified in this Form 20-F may be, located outside of Canada and the United States. It may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States or within Canada upon the directors and officers of Page 39 Table of Contents the Managing General Partner and the Service Provider. It may also not be possible to enforce against us, the experts identified in this Form 20-F or the directors and officers of the Managing General Partner and the Service Provider judgments, obtained in Canadian or U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of securities laws in Canada or the United States as applicable. We may not be able to continue paying comparable or growing cash distributions to our LP Unitholders in the future. The amount of cash we can distribute to our LP Unitholders depends upon the amount of cash we receive from BRELP and, indirectly, the Holding Entities and the Operating Entities. The amount of cash BRELP, the Holding Entities and the Operating Entities generate will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and will depend upon, among other things: the weather in the jurisdictions in which they operate; the level of their operating costs; and prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will also depend on other factors, such as: the level of costs related to litigation and regulatory compliance matters; the cost of acquisitions, if any; our debt service requirements; fluctuations in our working capital needs; our ability to borrow under our credit facilities; our ability to access capital markets; restrictions on distributions contained in our debt agreements; and the amount, if any, of cash reserves established by our Managing General Partner in its discretion for the proper conduct of our business. As a result of all these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will have sufficient available cash to pay a specific level of cash distributions to our LP Unitholders. Furthermore, our LP Unitholders should be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon the cash flow of BRELP, the Holding Entities and the Operating Entities, and is not solely a function of profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may declare and/or pay cash distributions during periods when we record net losses. We rely on BRELP and, indirectly, the Holding Entities and the Operating Entities to provide us with the funds necessary to pay distributions and meet our financial obligations. BREP’s sole direct investment is its limited partnership interest in BRELP, which owns all of the common shares or equity interests, as applicable, of the Holding Entities, through which we hold all of our interests in the Operating Entities. We have no independent means of generating revenue. As a result, we depend on distributions and other payments from BRELP and, indirectly, the Holding Entities and the Operating Entities to provide us with the funds necessary to pay distributions on our LP Units and to meet our financial obligations. BRELP, the Holding Entities and the Operating Entities are legally distinct from BREP and they will generally be required to service their debt obligations before making distributions to us or their parent entity, as applicable, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available to pay distributions on our LP Units, fund working capital and satisfy other needs. Any other entities through which we may conduct operations in the future will also be legally distinct from BREP and may be restricted in their ability to pay dividends and distributions or otherwise make fund available to us under certain conditions. We anticipate that the only distributions we will receive in respect of our limited partnership interests in BRELP will consist of amounts that are intended to assist us in making distributions to our LP unitholders in accordance with our distribution policy and to allow us to pay expenses as they become due. Risks Related to Taxation General Changes in tax law and practice may have a material adverse effect on the operations of BREP, the Holding Entities, and the Operating Entities and, as a consequence, the value of BREP’s assets and the net amount of distributions payable to LP Unitholders. The Brookfield Renewable structure, including the structure of the Holding Entities and the Operating Entities, is based on prevailing taxation law and practice in the local jurisdictions (such as Canada, the United States, and Brazil) in which the Brookfield Renewable entities operate. Any change in tax legislation (including in relation to taxation rates) and practice in these jurisdictions could adversely affect these entities, as well as the net amount of distributions payable to LP Unitholders. Taxes and other constraints that would apply to the Brookfield Renewable entities in such jurisdictions may not apply to Page 40 Table of Contents local institutions or other parties, and such parties may therefore have a significantly lower effective cost of capital and a corresponding competitive advantage in pursuing such acquisitions. BREP’s ability to make distributions depends on it receiving sufficient cash distributions from its underlying operations, and BREP cannot assure LP Unitholders that it will be able to make cash distributions to them in amounts that are sufficient to fund their tax liabilities, in which case certain LP Unitholders may be required to pay income taxes on their share of BREP’s income even though they have not received sufficient cash distributions from BREP. The Holding Entities and Operating Entities of BREP may be subject to local taxes in each of the relevant territories and jurisdictions in which they operate, including taxes on income, profits or gains and withholding taxes. As a result, BREP’s cash available for distribution is indirectly reduced by such taxes, and the post-tax return to LP Unitholders is similarly reduced by such taxes. BREP intends for future acquisitions to be assessed on a case-by-case basis and, where possible and commercially viable, structured so as to minimize any adverse tax consequences to LP Unitholders as a result of making such acquisitions. In general, an LP Unitholder that is subject to income tax in Canada or the United States must include in income its allocable share of BREP’s items of income, gain, loss, and deduction (including, so long as it is treated as a partnership for tax purposes, BREP’s allocable share of those items of BRELP) for each of BREP’s fiscal years ending with or within such LP Unitholder’s tax year. See Item 10.E “Taxation — Material Canadian Federal Income Tax Considerations” and “Taxation — Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations”. However, the cash distributed to an LP Unitholder may not be sufficient to pay the full amount of such LP Unitholder’s tax liability in respect of its investment in BREP, because each LP Unitholder’s tax liability depends on such holder’s particular tax situation. If BREP is unable to distribute cash in amounts that are sufficient to fund our LP Unitholders’ tax liabilities, each of our LP Unitholders will still be required to pay income taxes on its share of BREP’s taxable income. As a result of holding LP Units, LP Unitholders may be subject to U.S. state, local or non-U.S. taxes and return filing obligations in jurisdictions in which they are not resident for tax purposes or otherwise not subject to tax. LP Unitholders may be subject to U.S. state, local, and non-U.S. taxes, including unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which BREP entities do business or own property now or in the future, even if LP Unitholders do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. LP Unitholders may be required to file income tax returns and pay income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, LP Unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with these requirements. Although BREP will attempt, to the extent reasonably practicable, to structure BREP operations and investments so as to minimize income tax filing obligations by LP Unitholders in such jurisdictions, there may be circumstances in which BREP is unable to do so. It is the responsibility of each LP Unitholder to file all U.S. federal, state, local, and non-U.S. tax returns that may be required of such LP Unitholder. LP Unitholders may be exposed to transfer pricing risks. To the extent that BREP, BRELP, the Holding Entities or the Operating Entities enter into transactions or arrangements with parties with whom they do not deal at arm’s length, including Brookfield, pursuant to the applicable law relating to transfer pricing, the relevant tax authorities may seek to adjust the quantum or nature of the amounts received or paid by such entities if they consider that the terms and conditions of such transactions or arrangements differ from those that would have been made between persons dealing at arm’s length and could impose penalties for failing to comply with applicable law relating to transfer pricing. This could result in more tax (and penalties and interest) being paid by such entities, and therefore the return to investors could be reduced. For Canadian tax purposes, a transfer pricing adjustment may in certain circumstances result in additional income being allocated to an LP Unitholder with no corresponding cash distribution or in a dividend being deemed to be paid by a Canadian resident to a non-arm’s length non-resident, which deemed dividend is subject to Canadian withholding tax. Page 41 Table of Contents The Managing General Partner and the BRELP General Partner believe the fees charged by or paid to non-arm’s length persons are consistent with applicable law relating to transfer pricing, however, no assurance can be given in this regard. The IRS or the CRA may not agree with certain assumptions and conventions that BREP uses in order to comply with applicable U.S. and Canadian federal income tax laws or that BREP uses to report income, gain, loss, deduction, and credit to LP Unitholders. BREP will apply certain assumptions and conventions in order to comply with applicable tax laws and to report income, gain, deduction, loss, and credit to an LP Unitholder in a manner that reflects such LP Unitholder’s beneficial ownership of partnership items, taking into account variation in ownership interests during each taxable year because of trading activity. A successful IRS or CRA challenge to such assumptions or conventions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to LP Unitholders and could require that items of income, gain, deduction, loss, or credit be adjusted, reallocated or disallowed in a manner that adversely affects LP Unitholders. See Item 10.E “Taxation”. United States If either BREP or BRELP were to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the value of LP Units might be adversely affected. The value of LP Units to LP Unitholders will depend in part on the treatment of BREP and BRELP as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, in order for BREP to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under present law, 90% or more of BREP’s gross income for every taxable year must consist of qualifying income, as defined in Section 7704 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, and the partnership must not be required to register, if it were a U.S. corporation, as an investment company under the Investment Company Act and related rules. Although the Managing General Partner intends to manage BREP’s affairs so that BREP will not need to be registered as an investment company if it were a U.S. corporation and so that it will meet the 90% test described above in each taxable year, BREP may not meet these requirements, or current law may change so as to cause, in either event, BREP to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If BREP (or BRELP) were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, adverse tax consequences could result for LP Unitholders and BREP (or BRELP, as applicable), as described in greater detail in Item 10.E “Taxation — Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations — Partnership Status of BREP and BRELP”. BREP may be subject to U.S. backup withholding tax if any LP Unitholder fails to comply with U.S. federal tax reporting rules, and such excess withholding tax cost will be an expense borne by BREP and, therefore, by all of our LP Unitholders on a pro rata basis. BREP may become subject to U.S. backup withholding tax with respect to any LP Unitholder who fails to timely provide BREP (or the applicable intermediary) with an IRS Form W-9 or IRS Form W-8, as applicable. See Item 10.E “Taxation — Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations — Administrative Matters — Backup Withholding”. To the extent that any LP Unitholder fails to timely provide the applicable form (or such form is not properly completed), BREP might treat such U.S. backup withholding taxes as an expense, which would be borne indirectly by all LP Unitholders on a pro rata basis (including LP Unitholders that fully comply with their U.S. tax reporting obligations). Tax-exempt organizations may face certain adverse U.S. tax consequences from owning LP Units. The Managing General Partner and the BRELP General Partner intend to use commercially reasonable efforts to structure the activities of BREP and BRELP, respectively, to avoid generating income connected with the conduct of a trade or business (which income generally would constitute “unrelated business taxable income” (“UBTI”) to the extent allocated to a tax-exempt organization). However, no assurance can be provided that neither BREP nor BRELP will generate UBTI in the future. In particular, UBTI includes income attributable to debt-financed property, and neither BREP nor BRELP is prohibited from financing the acquisition of property with debt. In addition, even if indebtedness were not used by BREP or BRELP to acquire property but were instead used to fund distributions to LP Unitholders, if a tax-exempt organization were to use such proceeds to make an investment outside BREP, the IRS could assert that such investment constituted debt-financed property to such LP Page 42 Table of Contents Unitholder. The potential for income to be characterized as UBTI could make LP Units an unsuitable investment for a tax-exempt organization. Each tax-exempt organization should consult an independent tax adviser to determine the U.S. federal income tax consequences with respect to an investment in LP Units. If BREP were engaged in a U.S. trade or business, non-U.S. persons would face certain adverse U.S. tax consequences from owning LP Units. The Managing General Partner and the BRELP General Partner intend to use commercially reasonable efforts to structure the activities of BREP and BRELP, respectively, to avoid generating income treated as effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business, including effectively connected income attributable to the sale of a “United States real property interest”, as defined in the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. If, contrary to the Managing General Partner’s expectations, BREP is considered to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business or realizes gain from the sale or other disposition of a United States real property interest, non-U.S. LP Unitholders would be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and would be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax at the regular graduated rates. To meet U.S. federal income tax and other objectives, BREP and BRELP may invest through U.S. and non-U.S. Holding Entities that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and such Holding Entities may be subject to corporate income tax. To meet U.S. federal income tax and other objectives, BREP and BRELP may invest through U.S. and non-U.S. Holding Entities that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and such Holding Entities may be subject to corporate income tax. Consequently, items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit realized in the first instance by the Operating Entities will not flow, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, directly to BRELP, BREP, or LP Unitholders, and any such income or gain may be subject to a corporate income tax, in the United States or other jurisdictions, at the level of the Holding Entity. Any such additional taxes may adversely affect BREP’s ability to maximize its cash flow. LP Unitholders taxable in the United States may be viewed as holding an indirect interest in an entity classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. U.S. Holders may face adverse U.S. tax consequences arising from the ownership of a direct or indirect interest in a PFIC. Based on the organizational structure of BREP, as well as BREP’s expected income and assets, the Managing General Partner and the BRELP General Partner currently believe that a U.S. Holder is unlikely to be regarded as owning an interest in a PFIC solely by reason of owning LP Units during the taxable year ending December 31, 2014. However, there can be no assurance that an existing BREP entity or a future entity in which BREP acquires an interest will not be classified as a PFIC with respect to a U.S. Holder, because PFIC status is a factual determination that depends on the assets and income of a given entity and must be made on an annual basis. In general, gain realized by a U.S. Holder from the sale of stock of a PFIC is subject to tax at ordinary income rates, and an interest charge generally applies. Alternatively, a U.S. Holder that makes certain elections with respect to a direct or indirect interest in a PFIC may be required to recognize taxable income prior to the receipt of cash relating to such income. The adverse consequences of owning an interest in a PFIC, as well as certain tax elections for mitigating these adverse consequences, are described in greater detail in Item 10.E “Taxation — Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations — Consequences to U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Companies”. Each U.S. Holder should consult an independent tax adviser regarding the implication of the PFIC rules for an investment in LP Units. Tax gain or loss from the disposition of LP Units could be more or less than expected. If a sale of LP Units by an LP Unitholder is taxable in the United States, the LP Unitholder will recognize gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and the LP Unitholder’s adjusted tax basis in those LP Units. Prior distributions to an LP Unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to such LP Unitholder will have decreased such holder’s tax basis in its LP Units. Therefore, such excess distributions will increase an LP Unitholder’s taxable gain or decrease such holder’s taxable loss when our LP Units are sold, and may result in a taxable gain even if the sale price is less than the original cost. A portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, could be ordinary income to such LP Unitholder. Page 43 Table of Contents The Brookfield Renewable structure involves complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. The tax characterization of the Brookfield Renewable structure is also subject to potential legislative, judicial, or administrative change and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of LP Unitholders depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. LP Unitholders should be aware that the U.S. federal income tax rules, particularly those applicable to partnerships, are constantly under review (including currently) by the Congressional tax-writing committees and other persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS, the U.S. Treasury Department and the courts, frequently resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts, statutory changes, revisions to regulations and other modifications and interpretations, any of which could adversely affect the value of LP Units and be effective on a retroactive basis. BREP’s organizational documents and agreements permit the Managing General Partner to modify the limited partnership agreement of BREP from time to time, without the consent of our LP Unitholders, to address such changes. In some circumstances, such revisions could have a material adverse impact on some or all LP Unitholders. BREP’s delivery of required tax information for a taxable year may be subject to delay, which could require an LP Unitholder who is a U.S. taxpayer to request an extension of the due date for such LP Unitholder’s income tax return. BREP has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to provide U.S. tax information (including IRS Schedule K-1 information needed to determine an LP Unitholder’s allocable share of BREP’s income, gain, losses and deductions) no later than 90 days after the close of each calendar year. However, providing this U.S. tax information to LP Unitholders will be subject to delay in the event of, among other reasons, the late receipt of any necessary tax information from lower-tier entities. It is therefore possible that, in any taxable year, an LP Unitholder will need to apply for an extension of time to file such LP Unitholder’s tax returns. See Item 10.E “Taxation — Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations — Administrative Matters — Information Returns”. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our LP Units will result in the constructive termination of BREP for U.S. federal income tax purposes. BREP will be considered to have been terminated for U.S. federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of our LP Units within a 12-month period. A constructive termination of BREP would, among other things, result in the closing of its taxable year for U.S. federal income tax purposes for all LP Unitholders and could result in the possible acceleration of income to certain LP Unitholders and certain other consequences that could adversely affect the value of LP Units. However, the Managing General Partner does not expect a constructive termination, should it occur, to have a material impact on the computation of the future taxable income generated by BREP for U.S. income tax purposes. See Item 10.E “Taxation — Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations — Administrative Matters — Constructive Termination”. Page 44 Table of Contents The U.S. Congress has considered legislation that could, if enacted, adversely affect BREP’s qualification as a partnership for U.S. federal tax purposes under the publicly traded partnership rules and subject certain income and gains to tax at increased rates. If this or similar legislation were to be enacted and to apply to BREP, then the after-tax income of BREP, as well as the market price of LP Units, could be reduced. Over the past several years, a number of legislative proposals have been introduced in the U.S. Congress which could have had adverse tax consequences for BREP or BRELP, including the recharacterization of certain items of capital gain income as ordinary income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, such legislation was not enacted into law. The Obama administration has indicated it supports such legislation and has proposed that the current law regarding the treatment of such items of capital gain income be changed to subject such income to ordinary income tax. For further detail on such proposed legislation, see Item 10.E. “Taxation — Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations — Proposed Legislation”. Under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance provisions of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act of 2010 (“FATCA”), certain payments made or received by BREP on or after July 1, 2014 could be subject to a 30% federal withholding tax, unless certain requirements are met. Under FATCA, certain payments of U.S.-source income made on or after July 1, 2014 to BREP, BRELP, the Holding Entities, or the Operating Entities, or by BREP to an LP Unitholder (as well as certain payments made on or after January 1, 2017 that are attributable to such income or that constitute gross proceeds from the disposition of property that could produce U.S.-source dividends or interest) could be subject to a 30% withholding tax, unless certain requirements are met, as described in greater detail in Item 10.E “Taxation – Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations – Administrative Matters – Foreign Account Tax Compliance”. In addition, to ensure compliance with FATCA, information regarding certain LP Unitholders’ ownership of our LP Units may be reported to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or to a non-U.S. governmental authority. Each of our LP Unitholders should consult an independent tax adviser regarding the consequences under FATCA of an investment in LP Units. Canada The Canadian federal income tax consequences to LP Unitholders could be materially different in certain respects from those described in this Form 20-F if BREP or BRELP is a “SIFT partnership” (as defined in the Income Tax Act (Canada), together with the regulations thereunder (the “Tax Act”). Under the rules in the Tax Act applicable to a “SIFT partnership” (the “SIFT Rules”), certain income and gains earned by a “SIFT partnership” are subject to income tax at the partnership level at a rate similar to a corporation and allocations of such income and gains to its partners are taxed as a dividend from a taxable Canadian corporation. In particular, a “SIFT partnership” will be required to pay a tax on the total of its income from businesses carried on in Canada, income from “non-portfolio properties” (as defined in the Tax Act) other than taxable dividends, and taxable capital gains from dispositions of “non-portfolio properties”. “Non-portfolio properties” include, among other things, equity interests or debt of corporations, trusts or partnerships that are resident in Canada, and of non-resident persons or partnerships the principal source of income of which is one or any combination of sources in Canada, that are held by the “SIFT partnership” and have a fair market value that is greater than 10% of the equity value of such entity, or that have, together with debt or equity that the “SIFT partnership” holds of entities affiliated (within the meaning of the Tax Act) with such entity, an aggregate fair market value that is greater than 50% of the equity value of the “SIFT partnership”. The tax rate applied to the above mentioned sources of income and gains is set at a rate equal to the “net corporate income tax rate”, plus the “provincial SIFT tax rate” (each as defined in the Tax Act). A partnership will be a “SIFT partnership” throughout a taxation year if at any time in the taxation year (i) it is a “Canadian resident partnership” (as defined in the Tax Act), (ii) “investments” (as defined in the Tax Act) in the partnership are listed or traded on a stock exchange or other public market, and (iii) it holds one or more “non-portfolio properties”. For these purposes, a partnership will be a “Canadian resident partnership” at a particular time if (a) it is a “Canadian partnership” (as defined in the Tax Act) at that time, (b) it would, if it were a corporation, be resident in Canada (including, for greater certainty, a Page 45 Table of Contents partnership that has its central management and control located in Canada), or (c) it was formed under the laws of a province. A “Canadian partnership” for these purposes is a partnership all of whose members are resident in Canada or are partnerships that are “Canadian partnerships”. Under the SIFT Rules, BREP and BRELP could each be a “SIFT partnership” if it is a “Canadian resident partnership”. However, BRELP would not be a “SIFT partnership” if BREP is a “SIFT partnership” regardless of whether BRELP is a “Canadian resident partnership” on the basis that BRELP would be an “excluded subsidiary entity” (as defined in the Tax Act). BREP and BRELP will be a “Canadian resident partnership” if the central management and control of these partnerships is located in Canada. This determination is a question of fact and is expected to depend on where the Managing General Partner and the BRELP General Partner are located and exercise central management and control of the respective partnerships. The Managing General Partner and the BRELP General Partner will each take appropriate steps so that the central management and control of these entities is not located in Canada such that the SIFT Rules should not apply to BREP or BRELP at any relevant time. However, no assurance can be given in this regard. If BREP or BRELP is a “SIFT partnership”, the Canadian federal income tax consequences to our LP Unitholders could be materially different in certain respects from those described in Item 10.E “Taxation — Material Canadian Federal Income Tax Considerations”. In addition, there can be no assurance that the SIFT Rules will not be revised or amended in the future such that the SIFT Rules will apply. If the subsidiaries that are corporations and that are not resident or deemed to be resident in Canada for purposes of the Tax Act (“Non-Resident Subsidiaries”) and that are “controlled foreign affiliates” (as defined in the Tax Act and referred to in this Form 20-F as CFAs) in which BRELP directly invests earn income that is “foreign accrual property income” (as defined in the Tax Act and referred to in this Form 20-F as “FAPI”), our LP Unitholders may be required to include amounts allocated from BREP in computing their income for Canadian federal income tax purposes even though there may be no corresponding cash distribution. Any Non-Resident Subsidiaries in which BRELP directly invests are expected to be CFAs of BRELP. If any CFA of BRELP or any direct or indirect subsidiary thereof that itself is a CFA of BRELP (an “Indirect CFA”) earns income that is characterized as FAPI in a particular taxation year of the CFA or Indirect CFA, the FAPI allocable to BRELP must be included in computing the income of BRELP for Canadian federal income tax purposes for the fiscal period of BRELP in which the taxation year of that CFA or Indirect CFA ends, whether or not BRELP actually receives a distribution of that FAPI. BREP will include its share of such FAPI of BRELP in computing its income for Canadian federal income tax purposes and LP Unitholders will be required to include their proportionate share of such FAPI allocated from BREP in computing their income for Canadian federal income tax purposes. As a result, LP Unitholders may be required to include amounts in their income for Canadian federal income tax purposes even though they have not and may not receive an actual cash distribution of such amounts. The Tax Act contains anti-avoidance rules to address certain foreign tax credit generator transactions (the “Foreign Tax Credit Generator Rules”). Under the Foreign Tax Credit Generator Rules, the “foreign accrual tax” (as defined in the Tax Act) applicable to a particular amount of FAPI included in BRELP’s income in respect of a particular CFA of BRELP may be limited in certain specified circumstances. See Item 10.E “Taxation — Material Canadian Federal Income Tax Considerations”. LP Unitholders may be required to include imputed amounts in their income for Canadian federal income tax purposes in accordance with section 94.1 of the Tax Act. Section 94.1 of the Tax Act contains rules relating to investments in entities that are not resident in Canada or deemed to be resident for purposes of the Tax Act or not situated in Canada, other than a CFA of the taxpayer (“Non-Resident Entities”), that could in certain circumstances cause income to be imputed to LP Unitholders for Canadian federal income tax purposes, either directly or by way of allocation of such income imputed to BREP or to BRELP. See Item 10.E “Taxation — Material Canadian Federal Income Tax Considerations”. Our LP Units may not continue to be “qualified investments” under the Tax Act for registered plans. Page 46 Table of Contents Provided that our LP Units are listed on a “designated stock exchange” (as defined in the Tax Act), which currently includes the TSX and the NYSE, our LP Units will be “qualified investments” under the Tax Act for a trust governed by a registered retirement savings plan (“RRSP”), deferred profit sharing plan, registered retirement income fund (“RRIF”), registered education savings plan, registered disability savings plan, and a tax-free savings account (“TFSA”). However, there can be no assurance that tax laws relating to qualified investments will not be changed. Taxes may be imposed in respect of the acquisition or holding of non-qualified investments by such registered plans and certain other taxpayers and with respect to the acquisition or holding of “prohibited investments” (as defined in the Tax Act) by a TFSA or an RRSP or RRIF. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a holder of a TFSA or an annuitant under an RRSP or RRIF, as the case may be, will be subject to a penalty tax if our LP Units held in the TFSA, RRSP or RRIF are a “prohibited investment” as defined in the Tax Act for the TFSA, RRSP or RRIF, as the case may be. Generally, our LP Units will not be a “prohibited investment” if the holder of the TFSA or the annuitant under the RRSP or RRIF, as applicable, deals at arm’s length with BREP for purposes of the Tax Act and does not have a “significant interest”, as defined in the Tax Act, in BREP. Prospective holders who intend to hold our LP Units in a TFSA, RRSP or RRIF should consult with their own tax advisers regarding the application of the foregoing “prohibited investment” rules having regard to their particular circumstances. LP Unitholders’ foreign tax credits for Canadian federal income tax purposes will be limited if the Foreign Tax Credit Generator Rules apply in respect of the foreign “business-income tax” or “non-business-income tax” (each as defined in the Tax Act) paid by BREP or BRELP to a foreign country. Under the Foreign Tax Credit Generator Rules, the foreign “business-income tax” or “non-business-income tax” for Canadian federal income tax purposes for any taxation year may be limited in certain circumstances. If the Foreign Tax Credit Generator Rules apply, the allocation to an LP Unitholder of foreign “business-income tax” or “non-business-income tax” paid by BREP or BRELP, and therefore such LP Unitholder’s foreign tax credits for Canadian federal income tax purposes, will be limited. See Item 10.E “Taxation — Material Canadian Federal Income Tax Considerations”. LP Unitholders who are not and are not deemed to be resident in Canada for purposes of the Tax Act and who do not use or hold and are not deemed to use or hold their LP Units in connection with a business carried on in Canada (“Non-Resident LP Unitholders”) may be subject to Canadian federal income tax with respect to any Canadian source business income earned by BREP or BRELP if BREP or BRELP were considered to carry on business in Canada. If BREP or BRELP were considered to carry on business in Canada for purposes of the Tax Act, Non-Resident LP Unitholders would be subject to Canadian federal income tax on their proportionate share of any Canadian source business income earned or considered to be earned by BREP, subject to the potential application of the safe harbor rule in section 115.2 of the Tax Act, and any relief that may be provided by any relevant income tax treaty or convention. The Managing General Partner and the BRELP General Partner intend to manage the affairs of BREP and BRELP, to the extent possible, so that they do not carry on business in Canada and are not considered or deemed to carry on business in Canada for purposes of the Tax Act. Nevertheless, because the determination of whether BREP or BRELP is carrying on business and, if so, whether that business is carried on in Canada, is a question of fact that is dependent upon the surrounding circumstances, the CRA might contend successfully that either or both of BREP and BRELP carries on business in Canada for purposes of the Tax Act. If BREP or BRELP is considered to carry on business in Canada or is deemed to carry on business in Canada for the purposes of the Tax Act, Non-Resident LP Unitholders that are corporations would be required to file a Canadian federal income tax return for each taxation year in which they are a Non-Resident LP Unitholder regardless of whether relief from Canadian taxation is available under an applicable income tax treaty or convention. Non-Resident LP Unitholders who are individuals would be required to file a Canadian federal income tax return for any taxation year in which they are allocated income from BREP from carrying on business in Canada that is not exempt from Canadian taxation under the terms of an applicable income tax treaty or convention. Page 47 Table of Contents Non-Resident LP Unitholders may be subject to Canadian federal income tax on capital gains realized by BREP or BRELP on dispositions of “taxable Canadian property” (as defined in the Tax Act). A Non-Resident LP Unitholder will be subject to Canadian federal income tax on its proportionate share of capital gains realized by BREP or BRELP on the disposition of “taxable Canadian property” other than “treaty-protected property” (as defined in the Tax Act). “Taxable Canadian property” includes, but is not limited to, property that is used or held in a business carried on in Canada and shares of corporations that are not listed on a “designated stock exchange” if more than 50% of the fair market value of the shares is derived from certain Canadian properties during the 60-month period immediately preceding the particular time. Property of BREP and BRELP generally will be “treaty-protected property” to a Non-Resident LP Unitholder if the gain from the disposition of the property would, because of an applicable income tax treaty or convention, be exempt from tax under the Tax Act. The Managing General Partner and the BRELP General Partner do not expect BREP and BRELP to realize capital gains or losses from dispositions of “taxable Canadian property”. However, no assurance can be given in this regard. Non-Resident LP Unitholders will be required to file a Canadian federal income tax return in respect of a disposition of “taxable Canadian property” by BREP or BRELP unless the disposition is an “excluded disposition” for the purposes of section 150 of the Tax Act. However, Non-Resident LP Unitholders that are corporations will still be required to file a Canadian federal income tax return in respect of a disposition of “taxable Canadian property” that is an “excluded disposition” for purposes of section 150 of the Tax Act if tax would otherwise be payable under Part I of the Tax Act by such Non-Resident LP Unitholders in respect of the disposition but is not because of an applicable income tax treaty or convention (otherwise than in respect of a disposition of “taxable Canadian property” that is “treaty-protected property” of the corporation). In general, an “excluded disposition” is a disposition of property by a taxpayer in a taxation year where (a) the taxpayer is a non-resident of Canada at the time of the disposition; (b) no tax is payable by the taxpayer under Part I of the Tax Act for the taxation year; (c) the taxpayer is not liable to pay any amounts under the Tax Act in respect of any previous taxation year (other than certain amounts for which the CRA holds adequate security); and (d) each “taxable Canadian property” disposed of by the taxpayer in the taxation year is either (i) “excluded property” (as defined in subsection 116(6) of the Tax Act) or (ii) property in respect of the disposition of which a certificate under subsection 116(2), (4) or (5.2) of the Tax Act has been issued by the CRA. Non-Resident LP Unitholders should consult their own tax advisers with respect to the requirements to file a Canadian federal income tax return in respect of a disposition of “taxable Canadian property” by BREP or BRELP. Non-Resident LP Unitholders may be subject to Canadian federal income tax on capital gains realized on the disposition of LP Units if our LP Units are “taxable Canadian property”. Any capital gain arising from the disposition or deemed disposition of LP Units by a Non-Resident LP Unitholder will be subject to taxation in Canada, if, at the time of the disposition or deemed disposition, our LP Units are “taxable Canadian property”, unless our LP Units are “treaty-protected property” to such Non-Resident LP Unitholder. In general, our LP Units will not constitute “taxable Canadian property” of any Non-Resident LP Unitholder at the time of disposition or deemed disposition, unless (a) at any time in the 60-month period immediately preceding the disposition or deemed disposition, more than 50% of the fair market value of our LP Units was derived, directly or indirectly, excluding through a corporation, partnership or trust, the shares or interests in which were not themselves “taxable Canadian property”), from one or any combination of (i) real or immovable property situated in Canada, (ii) “Canadian resource property” (as defined in the Tax Act), (iii) “timber resource property” (as defined in the Tax Act), and (iv) options in respect of, or interests in, or for civil law rights in, such property, whether or not such property exists, or (b) our LP Units are otherwise deemed to be “taxable Canadian property”. Since BREP’s assets will consist principally of units of BRELP, our LP Units would generally be “taxable Canadian property” at a particular time, if the units of BRELP held by BREP derived, directly or indirectly, excluding through a corporation, partnership or trust, the shares or interests in which were not themselves “taxable Canadian property”), more than 50% of their fair market value from properties described in (i) to (iv) above, at any time in the 60-month period preceding the particular time. Our LP Units will be “treaty-protected property” if the gain on the disposition of our LP Units is exempt from tax under the Tax Act under the terms of an applicable income tax treaty or convention. The Managing General Partner does not expect our LP Units to be “taxable Canadian property” of any Non-Resident LP Unitholder at any time but no assurance can Page 48 Table of Contents be given in this regard. See Item 10.E “Taxation — Material Canadian Federal Income Tax Considerations — Holders Not Resident in Canada”. Even if our LP Units constitute “taxable Canadian property”, our LP Units will be “treaty-protected property” if the gain on the disposition of our LP Units is exempt from tax under the Tax Act under the terms of an applicable income tax treaty or convention. If our LP Units constitute “taxable Canadian property”, Non-Resident LP Unitholders will be required to file a Canadian federal income tax return in respect of a disposition of our LP Units unless the disposition is an “excluded disposition” (as discussed above). If our LP Units constitute “taxable Canadian property”, Non-Resident LP Unitholders should consult their own tax advisers with respect to the requirement to file a Canadian federal income tax return in respect of a disposition of LP Units. Non-Resident LP Unitholders may be subject to Canadian federal income tax reporting and withholding tax requirements on the disposition of “taxable Canadian property”. Non-Resident LP Unitholders who dispose of “taxable Canadian property”, other than “excluded property” (as defined in subsection 116(6) of the Tax Act) and certain other property described in subsection 116(5.2) of the Tax Act, (or who are considered to have disposed of such property on the disposition of such property by BREP or BRELP) are obligated to comply with the procedures set out in section 116 of the Tax Act and obtain a certificate pursuant to the Tax Act. In order to obtain such certificate, the Non-Resident LP Unitholder is required to report certain particulars relating to the transaction to the CRA not later than 10 days after the disposition occurs. The Managing General Partner and the BRELP General Partner do not expect our LP Units to be “taxable Canadian property” of any Non-Resident LP Unitholder and do not expect BREP or BRELP to dispose of property that is “taxable Canadian property” but no assurance can be given in these regards. Payments of dividends or interest (other than interest exempt from Canadian federal withholding tax) by residents of Canada to BRELP will be subject to Canadian federal withholding tax and the payers may be unable to apply a reduced rate taking into account the residency or entitlement to relief under an applicable income tax treaty or convention of our LP Unitholders. BREP and BRELP will be deemed to be a non-resident person in respect of certain amounts paid or credited or deemed to be paid or credited to them by a person resident or deemed to be resident in Canada, including dividends or interest. Dividends or interest (other than interest exempt from Canadian federal withholding tax) paid or deemed to be paid by a person resident or deemed to be resident in Canada to BRELP will be subject to withholding tax under Part XIII of the Tax Act at the rate of 25%. However, the CRA’s administrative practice in similar circumstances is to permit the rate of Canadian federal withholding tax applicable to such payments to be computed by looking through the partnership and taking into account the residency of the partners (including partners who are resident in Canada) and any reduced rates of Canadian federal withholding tax that any non-resident limited partners may be entitled to under an applicable income tax treaty or convention provided that the residency status and entitlement to treaty benefits can be established. In determining the rate of Canadian federal withholding tax applicable to amounts paid by the Holding Entities to BRELP, the Managing General Partner and the BRELP General Partner expect the Holding Entities to look-through BRELP and BREP to the residency of BREP’s partners (including partners who are residents in Canada) and to take into account any reduced rates of Canadian federal withholding tax that non-resident partners may be entitled to under an applicable income tax treaty or convention in order to determine the appropriate amount of Canadian federal withholding tax to withhold from dividends or interest paid to BRELP. However, there can be no assurance that the CRA would apply its administrative practice in this context. If the CRA’s administrative practice is not applied and the Holding Entities withhold Canadian federal withholding tax from applicable payments on a look-through basis, the Holding Entities may be liable for additional amounts of Canadian federal withholding tax plus any associated interest and penalties. Under the Canada-United States Tax Convention (1980) (the “Treaty”), a Canadian-resident payer is required in certain circumstances to look-through fiscally transparent partnerships, such as BREP and BRELP, to the residency and Treaty entitlements of their partners and take into account the reduced rates of Canadian federal withholding tax that such partners may be entitled to under the Treaty. Under the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of BREP, the amount of any taxes withheld or paid by BREP, BRELP or the Holding Entities in respect of our LP Units may be treated either as a distribution to our LP Unitholders or as a general expense of BREP as determined by the Managing General Partner in its sole discretion. Page 49 Table of Contents However, it is the current intention of the Managing General Partner to treat all such amounts as a distribution to our LP Unitholders. While the Managing General Partner and the BRELP General Partner expect the Holding Entities to look-through BREP and BRELP in determining the rate of Canadian federal withholding tax applicable to amounts paid or deemed to be paid by the Holding Entities to BRELP, we may be unable to accurately or timely determine the residency of our LP Unitholders for purposes of establishing the extent to which Canadian federal withholding taxes apply or whether reduced rates of withholding tax apply to some or all of our LP Unitholders. In such a case, the Holding Entities will withhold Canadian federal withholding tax from all payments made to BRELP that are subject to Canadian federal withholding tax at the rate of 25%. Canadian-resident LP Unitholders will be entitled to claim a credit for such taxes against their Canadian federal income tax liability but Non-Resident LP Unitholders will need to take certain steps to receive a refund or credit in respect of any such Canadian federal withholding taxes withheld equal to the difference between the withholding tax at a rate of 25% and the withholding tax at the reduced rate they are entitled to under an applicable income tax treaty or convention. LP Unitholders should consult their own tax advisers concerning all aspects of Canadian federal withholding taxes. ITEM 