ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to RXi’s Business and Industry We are dependent on the success of our lead drug candidate, which may not receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. RXI-109, our first RNAi-based product candidate, targets CTGF and may have a variety of medical applications. We began Phase 1 clinical trials for RXI-109 in 2012 and are planning to begin Phase 2 clinical trials for RXI-109 in the second half of 2013. The FDA, however, may require additional information before we are allowed to commence our planned Phase 2 clinical trials, and such information may be costly to provide or cause potentially significant delays in development. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop RXI-109 or any other product candidate. We have no commercial products and currently generate no revenue from commercial sales or collaborations and may never be able to develop marketable products. The FDA or similar foreign governmental agencies must approve our products in development before they can be marketed. The process for obtaining FDA approval is both time-consuming and costly, with no certainty of a successful outcome. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of any drug candidate, we must conduct extensive preclinical tests and successful clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. We have not yet shown safety or efficacy in humans for any RNAi-based product candidates, including RXI-109. A failure of any preclinical study or clinical trial can occur at any stage of testing. The results of preclinical and initial clinical testing of these products may not necessarily indicate the results that will be obtained from later or more extensive testing. Additionally, any observations made with respect to blinded clinical data are inherently uncertain as we cannot know which set of data come from patients treated with an active drug versus the placebo vehicle. Investors are cautioned not to rely on observations coming from blinded data and not to rely on initial clinical trial results as necessarily indicative of results that will be obtained in subsequent clinical trials. A number of different factors could prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or commercializing our product candidates on a timely basis, or at all. We, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities or an IRB may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time for various reasons, including if we or they believe the subjects or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Among other reasons, adverse side effects of a drug candidate on subjects or patients in a clinical trial could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities suspending or terminating the trial and refusing to approve a particular drug candidate for any or all indications of use. Clinical trials of a new drug candidate require the enrollment of a sufficient number of patients, including patients who are suffering from the disease or condition the drug candidate is intended to treat and who meet other eligibility criteria. Rates of patient enrollment are affected by many factors, and delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. Clinical trials also require the review and oversight of IRBs, which approve and continually review clinical investigations and protect the rights and welfare of human subjects. An inability or delay in obtaining IRB approval could prevent or delay the initiation and completion of clinical trials, and the FDA may decide not to consider any data or information derived from a clinical investigation not subject to initial and continuing IRB review and approval. Numerous factors could affect the timing, cost or outcome of our drug development efforts, including the following: • Delays in filing or acceptance of initial drug applications for our product candidates; • Difficulty in securing centers to conduct clinical trials; 14 Table of Contents • Conditions imposed on us by the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • Problems in engaging IRBs to oversee trials or problems in obtaining or maintaining IRB approval of studies; • Difficulty in enrolling patients in conformity with required protocols or projected timelines; • Third-party contractors failing to comply with regulatory requirements or to meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; • Our drug candidates having unexpected and different chemical and pharmacological properties in humans than in laboratory testing and interacting with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways; • The need to suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • Insufficient or inadequate supply or quality of our drug candidates or other necessary materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • Effects of our drug candidates not being the desired effects or including undesirable side effects or the drug candidates having other unexpected characteristics; • The cost of our clinical trials being greater than we anticipate; • Negative or inconclusive results from our clinical trials or the clinical trials of others for similar drug candidates or inability to generate statistically significant data confirming the efficacy of the product being tested; • Changes in the FDA’s requirements for testing during the course of that testing; • Reallocation of our limited financial and other resources to other clinical programs; and • Adverse results obtained by other companies developing similar drugs. It is possible that none of the product candidates that we may develop will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary to begin selling them or that any regulatory approval to market a product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals is unpredictable, but often can take years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the complexity of the drug candidate. Any analysis we perform of data from clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from the particular drug candidate. We also are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Approval by the FDA does not assure approval by regulatory authorities outside of the United States. The approach we are taking to discover and develop novel therapeutics using RNAi is unproven and may never lead to marketable products. RNA interference is a relatively new scientific discovery. Our RNAi technologies have been subject to only limited clinical testing. To date, no company has received regulatory approval to market therapeutics utilizing RNAi, and a number of clinical trials of RNAi technologies by other companies have been unsuccessful. The scientific evidence to support the feasibility of developing drugs based on these discoveries is both preliminary and 15 Table of Contents limited. To successfully develop RNAi-based products, we must resolve a number of issues, including stabilizing the RNAi material and delivering it into target cells in the human body. We may spend large amounts of money trying to resolve these issues and may never succeed in doing so. In addition, any compounds that we develop may not demonstrate in patients the chemical and pharmacological properties ascribed to them in laboratory studies, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or even harmful ways. The FDA could impose a unique regulatory regime for RNAi therapeutics. The substances we intend to develop may represent a new class of drug, and the FDA has not yet established any definitive policies, practices or guidelines in relation to these drugs. While we expect any product candidates that we develop will be regulated as a new drug under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the FDA could decide to regulate them or other products we may develop as biologics under the Public Health Service Act. The lack of policies, practices or guidelines may hinder or slow review by the FDA of any regulatory filings that we may submit. Moreover, the FDA may respond to these submissions by defining requirements that we may not have anticipated. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, our product candidates may not be accepted commercially, which may prevent us from becoming profitable. The RNAi product candidates that we are developing are based on new technologies and therapeutic approaches. RNAi products may be more expensive to manufacture than traditional small molecule drugs, which may make them more costly than competing small molecule drugs. Additionally, RNAi products do not readily cross the so-called blood brain barrier and, for various applications, are likely to require injection or implantation, which will make them less convenient to administer than drugs administered orally. Key participants in the pharmaceutical marketplace, such as physicians, medical professionals working in large reference laboratories, public health laboratories and hospitals, third-party payors and consumers may not accept products intended to improve therapeutic results based on RNAi technology. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to convince the medical community and third-party payors to accept and use our products or to provide favorable reimbursement. If medical professionals working with large reference laboratories, public health laboratories and hospitals choose not to adopt and use our RNAi technology, our products may not achieve broader market acceptance. Additionally, although we expect that we will have intellectual property protection for our technology, certain governments may elect to deny patent protection for drugs targeting diseases with high unmet medical need (e.g., as in the case of HIV) and allow in their country internationally unauthorized generic competition. If this was to happen, our commercial prospects for developing any such drugs would be substantially diminished in these countries. We are subject to competition and may not be able to compete successfully. We believe numerous companies are investigating or plan to investigate a variety of proposed anti-scarring therapies in clinical trials. The companies include large and small pharmaceutical, chemical and biotechnology companies, as well as universities, government agencies and other private and public research organizations. Such companies include Renovo Group plc, CoDa Therapeutics, Inc., Sirnaomics, Inc., FirstString Research, Inc., Merz Pharmaceuticals, LLC, Capstone Therapeutics, Halscion, Inc., Garnet Bio Therapeutics, Inc., AkPharma Inc., Promedior, Inc., Kissei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Eyegene, Derma Sciences, Inc., Healthpoint Biotherapeutics, FibroGen, Inc. and Pharmaxon. In particular, Excaliard Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which has been acquired by Pfizer, Inc., has successfully advanced an anti-CTGF antisense oligonucleotide through several Phase 1 and Phase 2 trials and has demonstrated improved scar outcome over placebo. We believe other companies working in the RNAi area, generally, include Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Marina Biotech, Inc., Tacere Therapeutics, Inc., Benitec Limited, Silence Therapeutics plc, Quark 16 Table of Contents Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Rosetta Genomics Ltd., Lorus Therapeutics, Inc., Tekmira Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Arrowhead Research Corporation, Regulus Therapeutics Inc. and Santaris, as well as a number of large pharmaceutical companies. Many other companies are pursuing non-RNAi-based therapies for one or more fibrotic disease indications, including ocular scarring or other indications that we may seek to pursue. Most of these competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and financial, scientific, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than we have, and we may not be able to successfully compete with them. In addition, even if we are successful in developing our product candidates, in order to compete successfully we may need to be first to market or to demonstrate that our RNAi based products are superior to therapies based on different technologies. A number of our competitors have already commenced clinical testing of RNAi product candidates and may be more advanced than we are in the process of developing products. If we are not first to market or are unable to demonstrate superiority, any products for which we are able to obtain approval may not be successful. We are dependent on technologies we license, and if we lose the right to license such technologies or fail to license new technologies in the future, our ability to develop new products would be harmed. Many patents in the RNAi field have already been exclusively licensed to third parties, including our competitors. If any of our existing licenses are terminated, the development of the products contemplated by the licenses could be delayed or terminated and we may not be able to negotiate additional licenses on acceptable terms, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights licensed from other parties; our intellectual property rights may be inadequate to prevent third parties from using our technologies or developing competing products; and we may need to license additional intellectual property from others. Therapeutic applications of gene silencing technologies, delivery methods and other technologies that we license from third parties are claimed in a number of pending patent applications, but there is no assurance that these applications will result in any issued patents or that those patents would withstand possible legal challenges or protect our technologies from competition. The United States Patent and Trademark Office and patent granting authorities in other countries have upheld stringent standards for the RNAi patents that have been prosecuted so far. Consequently, pending patents that we have licensed and those that we own may continue to experience long and difficult prosecution challenges and may ultimately issue with much narrower claims than those in the pending applications. Third parties may hold or seek to obtain additional patents that could make it more difficult or impossible for us to develop products based on RNAi technology without obtaining a license to such patents, which licenses may not be available on attractive terms, or at all. In addition, others may challenge the patents or patent applications that we currently license or may license in the future or that we own and, as a result, these patents could be narrowed, invalidated or rendered unenforceable, which would negatively affect our ability to exclude others from using RNAi technologies described in these patents. There is no assurance that these patent or other pending applications or issued patents we license or that we own will withstand possible legal challenges. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Any patents issued to us or our licensors may not provide us with any competitive advantages, and there is no assurance that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business or to continue to use its technologies freely. Our efforts to enforce and maintain our intellectual property rights may not be successful and may result in substantial costs and diversion of management time. Even if our rights are valid, enforceable and broad in scope, competitors may develop products based on technology that is not covered by our licenses or patents or patent application that we own. We have received a letter from Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Alnylam”), claiming that we require access to Alnylam’s patent and patent applications and demanding that we stop engaging in unspecified alleged 17 Table of Contents infringing activities unless we obtain a license from Alnylam. We understand that other companies working in the RNAi area have received similar letters from Alnylam. Although we believe that our current and planned activities do not infringe any valid patent rights of Alnylam, there is no assurance that we will not need to alter our development candidates or products or obtain a license to Alnylam’s rights to avoid any such infringement. Interactions with senior management of Alnylam at several occasions have not resulted in material indications of breach, but this does not exclude an unexpected claim by that company. There is no guarantee that future licenses will be available from third parties for our product candidates on timely or satisfactory terms, or at all. To the extent that we are required and are able to obtain multiple licenses from third parties to develop or commercialize a product candidate, the aggregate licensing fees and milestones and royalty payments made to these parties may materially reduce our economic returns or even cause us to abandon development or commercialization of a product candidate. Our success depends upon our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our products and technologies. The applications based on RNAi technologies claim many different methods, compositions and processes relating to the discovery, development, delivery and commercialization of RNAi therapeutics. Because this field is so new, very few of these patent applications have been fully processed by government patent offices around the world, and there is a great deal of uncertainty about which patents will issue, when, to whom and with what claims. Although we are not aware of any blocking patents or other proprietary rights, it is likely that there will be significant litigation and other proceedings, such as interference and opposition proceedings in various patent offices, relating to patent rights in the RNAi field. It is possible that we may become a party to such proceedings. We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing and may not be able to develop our product candidates. With the proceeds from our March 2013 Offering, we believe that we have sufficient working capital to fund our currently planned operations, including the planned Phase 2 program for RXI-109, into fiscal 2015. However, in the future, we may need to incur debt or issue equity in order to fund our planned expenditures as well as to make acquisitions and other investments. We cannot assure you that debt or equity financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot, or are limited in the ability to, incur debt, issue equity or enter into strategic collaborations, we may be unable to fund discovery and development of our product candidates, address gaps in our product offerings or improve our technology. We anticipate that we will need to raise substantial amounts of money to fund a variety of future activities integral to the development of our business, which may include but are not limited to the following: • To conduct research and development to successfully develop our RNAi technologies; • To obtain regulatory approval for our products; • To file and prosecute patent applications and to defend and assess patents to protect our technologies; • To retain qualified employees, particularly in light of intense competition for qualified scientists; • To manufacture products ourselves or through third parties; • To market our products, either through building our own sales and distribution capabilities or relying on third parties; and • To acquire new technologies, licenses or products. In addition, our common stock is not a “covered security” for purposes of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). The term “covered security” applies to securities exempt from state registration because of their oversight by federal authorities and national regulatory bodies, such as national securities exchanges, pursuant to Section 18 of the Securities Act. Because our common stock is not a “covered security,” 18 Table of Contents the sale of our shares may be subject to registration in various states. This could make it more difficult or costly to conduct an equity financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot assure you that any needed financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain additional financing in the future, our operations may be restricted and we may ultimately be unable to continue to develop and potentially commercialize our product candidates. Future financing may be obtained through, and future development efforts may be paid for by, the issuance of debt or equity, which may have an adverse effect on our stockholders or may otherwise adversely affect our business. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation. In such event, there is a possibility that once all senior claims are settled, there may be no assets remaining to pay out to the holders of common stock. In addition, if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, whether through private placements or public offerings, such an issuance would dilute your ownership in us. The terms of debt securities may also impose restrictions on our operations, which may include limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to pay dividends on or repurchase our capital stock, or to make certain acquisitions or investments. In addition, we may be subject to covenants requiring us to satisfy certain financial tests and ratios, and our ability to satisfy such covenants may be affected by events outside of our control. We expect to continue to incur significant research and development expenses, which may make it difficult for us to attain profitability, and may lead to uncertainty as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We expend substantial funds to develop our RNAi technologies, and additional substantial funds will be required for further research and development, including preclinical testing and clinical trials of any product candidates, and to manufacture and market any products that are approved for commercial sale. Because the successful development of our products is uncertain, we are unable to precisely estimate the actual funds we will require to develop and potentially commercialize them. In addition, we may not be able to generate enough revenue, even if we are able to commercialize any of our product candidates, to become profitable. If we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability or to secure additional financing, we may not be able to meet our obligations as they come due, raising substantial doubts as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Any such inability to continue as a going concern may result in our common stock holders losing their entire investment. There is no guarantee that we will become profitable or secure additional financing. Our financial statements contemplate that we will continue as a going concern and do not contain any adjustments that might result if we were unable to continue as a going concern. Changes in our operating plans, our existing and anticipated working capital needs, the acceleration or modification of our expansion plans, increased expenses, potential acquisitions or other events will all affect our ability to continue as a going concern. We will rely upon third parties for the manufacture of our clinical product candidates. We do not have the facilities or expertise to manufacture supplies of any of our potential product candidates for clinical trials. Accordingly, we will be dependent upon contract manufacturers for these supplies. We currently obtain supplies for RXI-109 from a single supplier, Agilent Technologies, Nucleic Acid Solutions Division. If for any reason we are unable to obtain RXI-109 from this supplier, we would have to seek to obtain it from another major oligonucleotide manufacturer. There is no assurance that we will be able to timely secure needed supply arrangements on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our failure to secure these arrangements as needed could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete the development of our product candidates or, if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, to commercialize them. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to establish or maintain the third-party relationships that are necessary to develop or potentially commercialize some or all of our product candidates. We expect to depend on collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical research organizations and other third parties to support our discovery efforts, to formulate product candidates, to manufacture our product candidates and to conduct clinical trials for some or all of our product candidates. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully negotiate agreements for or maintain relationships with collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical investigators, vendors and other third parties on favorable terms, if at all. Our ability to successfully negotiate such agreements will depend on, among other things, potential partners’ evaluation of the superiority of our technology over competing technologies, the quality of the preclinical and clinical data that we have generated and the perceived risks specific to developing our product candidates. If we are unable to obtain or maintain these agreements, we may not be able to clinically develop, formulate, manufacture, obtain regulatory approvals for or commercialize our product candidates. We cannot necessarily control the amount or timing of resources that our contract partners will devote to our research and development programs, product candidates or potential product candidates, and we cannot guarantee that these parties will fulfill their obligations to us under these arrangements in a timely fashion. We may not be able to readily terminate any such agreements with contract partners even if such contract partners do not fulfill their obligations to us. We are subject to potential liabilities from clinical testing and future product liability claims. If any of our future products are alleged to be defective, they may expose us to claims for personal injury by patients in clinical trials of our products. If our products are approved by the FDA, users may claim that such products caused unintended adverse effects. We will seek to obtain clinical trial insurance for clinical trials that we conduct, as well as liability insurance for any products that we market. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance in the amounts we seek, or at all. We anticipate that licensees who develop our products will carry liability insurance covering the clinical testing and marketing of those products. There is no assurance, however, that any insurance maintained by us or our licensees will prove adequate in the event of a claim against us. Even if claims asserted against us are unsuccessful, they may divert management’s attention from our operations and we may have to incur substantial costs to defend such claims. Any drugs we develop may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If approved, we intend to sell our products to physicians, plastic surgeons and dermatologists, as well as hospitals, oncologists and clinics that receive reimbursement for the healthcare services they provide to their patients from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Most third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, was used for an unapproved indication or if they believe the cost of the product outweighs its benefits. Third-party payors also may refuse to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. Furthermore, because our programs are still in development, we are unable at this time to determine their cost-effectiveness and the level or method of reimbursement for them. Increasingly, the third-party payors who reimburse patients are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices, and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. If the price we are able to charge for any products we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our profitability could be adversely affected. We currently expect that any drugs we develop may need to be administered under the supervision of a physician. Under currently applicable law, drugs that are not usually self-administered may be eligible for coverage by the Medicare program if: • They are “incidental” to a physician’s services; • They are “reasonable and necessary” for the diagnosis or treatment of the illness or injury for which they are administered according to accepted standard of medical practice; 20 Table of Contents • They are not excluded as immunizations; and • They have been approved by the FDA. Insurers may refuse to provide insurance coverage for newly approved drugs, or insurance coverage may be delayed or be more limited than the purpose for which the drugs are approved by the FDA. Moreover, eligibility for insurance coverage does not imply that any drug will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim payments for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement may be based on payments for other services and may reflect budgetary constraints or imperfections in Medicare data. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for new drugs that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to develop products and our overall financial condition. Additionally, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Levels of reimbursement may decrease in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for and price levels of our products. If our customers are not reimbursed for our products, they may reduce or discontinue purchases of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Comprehensive healthcare reform legislation, which became law in 2010, could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Among other provisions, the legislation provides that a “biosimilar” product may be approved by the FDA on the basis of analytical tests and certain clinical studies demonstrating that such product is highly similar to an existing, approved product and that switching between an existing product and the biosimilar product will not result in diminished safety or efficacy. This abbreviated regulatory approval process may result in increased competition if we are able to bring a product to market. The legislation also includes more stringent compliance programs for companies in various sectors of the life sciences industry with which we may need to comply and enhanced penalties for non-compliance with the new healthcare regulations. Complying with new regulations may divert management resources, and inadvertent failure to comply with new regulations may result in penalties being imposed on us. Some states and localities have established drug importation programs for their citizens, and federal drug import legislation has been introduced in Congress. The Medicare Prescription Drug Plan legislation, which became law in 2003, required the Secretary of Health and Human Services to promulgate regulations for drug reimportation from Canada into the United States under some circumstances, including when the drugs are sold at a lower price than in the United States. The Secretary, however, retained the discretion not to implement a drug reimportation plan if he finds that the benefits do not outweigh the costs, and has so far declined to approve a reimportation plan. Proponents of drug reimportation may attempt to pass legislation that would directly allow reimportation under certain circumstances. Legislation or regulations allowing the reimportation of drugs, if enacted, could decrease the price we receive for any products that we may develop and adversely affect our future revenues and prospects for profitability. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with continuing U.S. and foreign regulations, we could lose our approvals to market drugs and our business would be materially and adversely affected. Following regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, we will remain subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our 21 Table of Contents drug products are made available to patients. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or vigilance required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our drug products will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. The discovery of any new or previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug or manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. We would continue to be subject to the FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and submission of safety and other post-market information for all of our product candidates, even those that the FDA had approved. If we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and other adverse consequences. If we fail to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to design, develop, market or sell our products or successfully manage our business. Our business prospects are dependent on our management team and all of our employees. The loss of any of our key employees, including Drs. Cauwenbergh and Pavco, who serve as our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Development Officer, respectively, or our inability to identify, attract, retain and integrate additional qualified key personnel, could make it difficult for us to manage our business successfully and achieve our business objectives. Competition for skilled research, product development, regulatory and technical personnel is intense, and we may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel we need. The loss of the services of any key research, product development, regulatory and technical personnel, or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills, could restrict our ability to develop our product candidates. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our common stock is considered a “penny stock” and does not qualify for exemption from the “penny stock” restrictions, which may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is classified as a “penny stock” by the SEC and is subject to rules adopted by the SEC regulating broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks.” The SEC has adopted regulations that define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions, and that is not listed for trading on a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, these rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about current quotations for the securities and about commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative. Finally, broker-dealers must send monthly statements to purchasers of penny stocks disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. As a result of our shares of common stock being subject to the rules on penny stocks, the liquidity of our common stock may be adversely affected. Stocks that trade on the OTC markets, such as ours, are often thinly traded, which means that investors may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or in a timely manner as compared to more actively traded securities. Our common stock is traded on the OTCQB market. Stocks that trade on this or other OTC markets are often “thinly traded,” meaning the number of persons interested in purchasing the securities at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. Although we have had periods of relatively high liquidity in our stock, this may not be sustained, in particular due to the fact that we are a small company and are relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or 22 Table of Contents more when trading activity in our shares is minimal as compared to a seasoned issuer, which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot assure you that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. The price at which you purchase our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your common stock at or above your purchase price if at all, which may result in substantial losses to you. We have issued preferred stock in the past and possibly may issue more preferred stock in the future, and the terms of the preferred stock may reduce the value of our common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. There were 9,726 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock issued and outstanding at March 15, 2013 and December 31, 2012. Our board of directors may determine the terms of future preferred stock offerings without further action by our stockholders. The issuance of our preferred stock could affect your rights or reduce the value of our outstanding common stock. In particular, rights granted to holders of preferred stock may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and restrictions on our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. Additionally, the sale of a significant number of shares of common stock received upon conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may acquire other businesses or form joint ventures that may be unsuccessful and could dilute your ownership interest in our company. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue future acquisitions of other complementary businesses and technology licensing arrangements. We also may pursue strategic alliances. We have no experience with respect to acquiring other companies and limited experience with respect to the formation of collaborations, strategic alliances and joint ventures. We may not be able to integrate such acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities. We also could experience adverse effects on our reported results of operations from acquisition related charges, amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles and impairment charges relating to write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets from time to time following the acquisition. Integration of an acquired company requires management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, technology license or strategic alliance. For example, pursuant to the OPKO Asset Purchase, we acquired substantially all of OPKO’s RNAi-related assets, including patents, licenses, clinical and preclinical data and other assets. These assets are at an early stage of development and will require a significant investment of time and capital if we are to be successful in developing them. There is no assurance that we will be successful in developing the assets that we acquired in the OPKO Asset Purchase, and a failure to successfully develop these assets could diminish our prospects. Further, if we fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop the OPKO assets for at least one clinical indication, OPKO would have the right, after a 180-day cure period, to reacquire the assets from us without any consideration. To finance future acquisitions, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock or preferred stock as consideration, which would dilute your ownership interest in us. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our stockholders. Any future acquisitions by us also could result in large and immediate write-offs, the incurrence of contingent liabilities or amortization of expenses related to acquired intangible assets, any of which could harm our operating results. The holders of our Series A Preferred Stock may be able to delay or prevent a change in corporate control that would be beneficial to our stockholders. The holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have the right to convert at any time their shares of our Series A Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock, except to the extent that the holder would own more than 23 Table of Contents 9.999% of our common stock outstanding immediately after giving effect to the conversion. Although our Series A Preferred Stock generally is non-voting stock, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock will be entitled to vote on an as-converted basis together with our common stock with respect to any transaction that would constitute a deemed liquidation event under our charter, including any proposed merger or sale of Company. Although the Series A Preferred Stock holders have no rights to influence our day-to-day operations or even vote on the election of directors, by virtue of their voting rights in the context of a deemed liquidation event, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock will be able to significantly influence the outcome of the vote on any such extraordinary transaction that is required to be submitted to a vote of our stockholders. This right may adversely affect the market price of our common stock by: • Delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; • Impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or • Discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company in a “hostile” transaction. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our business requires significant funding. We currently plan to invest all available funds and future earnings in the development and growth of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, as a result, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: • Authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; • Prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • Provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, alter or repeal our bylaws; and • Establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management team by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 