ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks, or any risk described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial also may adversely affect us. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Oil and Gas Industry and Our Business A substantial or extended decline in oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas, prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. The price we receive for our oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas, heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production and the levels of our production depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following: •worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; •the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; •the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; •political conditions in or affecting other oil and natural gas-producing countries; •the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production; •the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; •localized supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability; •weather conditions and natural disasters; •domestic, local and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; •speculation as to the future price of oil and natural gas and the speculative trading of oil and natural gas futures contracts; •price and availability of competitors' supplies of oil and natural gas; •technological advances affecting energy consumption; and •the price and availability of alternative fuels. Substantially all of our production is sold to purchasers under short-term (less than 12-month) contracts at market based prices. Lower oil and natural gas prices will reduce our cash flows, borrowing ability and the present value of our reserves. If oil and natural gas prices deteriorate, we anticipate that the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility, which is revised periodically, may be reduced. Lower oil and natural gas prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Substantial decreases in oil and natural gas prices could render uneconomic a significant portion of our identified drilling locations. This may result in our having to make significant downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. A reduction in the premium to NYMEX WTI oil prices we receive by selling to the LLS market could significantly reduce the relative price advantage we receive for our production. Because a substantial portion of our producing properties are geographically concentrated in central Louisiana, we are vulnerable to fluctuations in pricing in that area. Our Gulf Coast oil production is generally sold in the LLS market, which has recently commanded a premium to NYMEX WTI prices due to its proximity to U.S. Gulf Coast refiners and international markets that are typically 23 Table of Contents correlated with Brent oil prices as well as take-away constraints at the Cushing, Oklahoma hub where NYMEX WTI contracts are settled. A reduction in this premium could significantly reduce the relative price advantage we receive for a substantial portion of our production. In addition, as a result of this geographic concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, transportation capacity constraints and curtailment or interruption of production from the wells in these areas. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our development, drilling and production activities. Our oil and natural gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore or develop drilling locations or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through 2D and 3D seismic data, geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. The production and operating data that is available with respect to the Upper Gulf Coast Tertiary and Mississippian Lime trends based on modern drilling and completion techniques is relatively limited compared to trends where multiple operators have been active for a significant period of time. As a result, we face more uncertainty in evaluating data than operators in more developed trends. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see "—Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves." Our costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain before drilling commences. In addition, the application of new techniques in these trends, such as high-graded stimulation designs and horizontal completions, some of which we may not have previously employed, may make it more difficult to accurately estimate these costs. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following: •shortages of, or delays in, obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; •facility or equipment malfunctions; •unexpected operational events; •pressure or irregularities in geological formations; •adverse weather conditions; •reductions in oil and natural gas prices; •delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; •proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities; •title problems; and •limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. In addition, the Company's hydraulic fracturing operations require significant quantities of water. Regions in which the Company operates have recently experienced drought conditions. Any diminished access to water for use in hydraulic fracturing, whether due to usage restrictions or drought or other weather conditions, could curtail the Company's operations or otherwise result in delays in operations or increased costs. 24 Table of Contents The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves will not be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. You should not assume that the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements in effect at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we based the discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the preceding twelve months without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as: •actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; •actual cost of development and production expenditures; •the amount and timing of actual production; and •changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating standardized measure may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Prior to our corporate reorganization in April 2012 in connection with our initial public offering, we were not subject to entity level taxation. Accordingly, our standardized measure for periods prior to such reorganization does not provide for federal or state corporate income taxes because taxable income was passed through to our equity holders. However, as a result of our corporate reorganization, we are now treated as a taxable entity for federal income tax purposes and our income taxes are dependent upon our taxable income. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimates included in this report which could have a material effect on the value of our reserves. If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties. We use the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas properties. Accordingly, we capitalize and amortize all productive and nonproductive costs directly associated with property acquisition, exploration and development activities. Under the full cost method, the capitalized cost of oil and gas properties, less accumulated amortization and related deferred income taxes may not exceed the "cost center ceiling" which is equal to the sum of the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves, less estimated future expenditures to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves computed using a discount factor of 10%, plus the costs of properties not subject to amortization, plus the lower of the cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, less related income tax effects. If the net capitalized costs exceed the cost center ceiling, we recognize the excess as an impairment of oil and gas properties. This impairment does not impact cash flows from operating activities but does reduce our earnings and shareholders' equity. The risk that we will be required to recognize impairments of our oil and natural gas properties increases during periods of low commodity prices. In addition, impairments would occur if we were to experience sufficient downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or the present value of estimated future net revenues. An impairment recognized in one period may not be reversed in a subsequent period even if higher oil and gas prices increase the cost center ceiling applicable to the subsequent period. We could incur impairments of oil and natural gas properties in the future, particularly as a result of a decline in commodity prices. 25 Table of Contents We have incurred losses from operations during certain periods since the beginning of 2008 and may continue to do so in the future. We incurred losses from operations of $15.6 million and $11.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and $13.1 million for the period from August 30, 2008 to December 31, 2008. Our development of and participation in an increasingly larger number of drilling locations has required and will continue to require substantial capital expenditures. The uncertainty and risks described in this report may impede our ability to economically acquire and develop oil and natural gas reserves. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows provided by operating activities in the future. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report. See "Summary of Oil and Gas Properties and Operations" for information about our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In order to prepare our estimates, we must estimate production rates and the timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. In addition, reserve estimates for properties that do not have a lengthy production history, including the areas in which we operate, are less reliable than estimates for fields with lengthy production histories. There can be no assurance that analysis of previous production data relating to the Upper Gulf Coast Tertiary trend or Mississippian Lime and Hunton formations will accurately predict future production, development expenditures or operating expenses from wells drilled and completed using modern techniques. In addition, this data is partially based on vertically drilled wells, which may not accurately reflect production, development expenditures or operating expenses that may result from the application of horizontal drilling techniques. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The development of our proved undeveloped reserves in our areas of operation may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced. Approximately 63% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped as of December 31, 2012. Development of these reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Delays in the development of our reserves or increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves will reduce the future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our proved reserves as unproved reserves. 26 Table of Contents Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unless we conduct successful development and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flows and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Drilling locations that we have identified may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. We describe some of our drilling locations and our plans to explore those drilling locations in this report. Our drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a location which is ready to drill to a location that will require substantial additional interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular location will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. Even if sufficient amounts of oil or natural gas exist, we may damage the potentially productive hydrocarbon bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing the well, resulting in a reduction in production from or abandonment of the well. If we drill additional wells that we identify as dry holes in our current and future drilling locations, our drilling success rate may decline and materially harm our business. In sum, the cost of drilling, completing and operating any well is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling, which in certain instances could prevent production prior to the expiration date of leases for such locations. In addition, we may not be able to raise the amount of capital that would be necessary to drill a substantial portion of our identified drilling locations. Our management team has identified and scheduled certain drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage and acreage currently under option. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these drilling locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, the availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering systems, marketing and pipeline transportation constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the potential locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified. Part of our strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques. The results of our horizontal drilling activities are subject to drilling and completion technique risks, and actual drilling results may not meet our expectations for reserves or production. As a result, we may 27 Table of Contents incur material impairment of the carrying value of our unevaluated properties, and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline if drilling results are unsuccessful. In the Upper Gulf Coast Tertiary trend, our experience with horizontal drilling utilizing the latest drilling and completion techniques is limited. We drilled our first horizontal well in the Upper Gulf Coast Tertiary trend in the fourth quarter of 2011 and seven additional horizontal wells and horizontal sidetracks in 2012. We are currently applying the preliminary results from these wells to plan for the eight to ten horizontal wells we expect to drill in the Upper Gulf Coast Tertiary trend during 2013. Risks that we face while horizontally drilling include, but are not limited to, landing our well bore in the desired drilling zone, staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, running our casing the entire length of the well bore and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal well bore. Risks that we face while completing our horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, being able to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, being able to run tools the entire length of the well bore during completion operations and successfully cleaning out the well bore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. Ultimately, the success of these horizontal drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled in the Upper Gulf Coast Tertiary trend and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period. If our horizontal drilling results in the Upper Gulf Coast Tertiary trend are less than anticipated, the return on our investment in this area may not be as attractive as we anticipate. The carrying value of our unevaluated properties could become impaired, which would increase our depletion rate per Boe or result in a ceiling test impairment if there were no corresponding additions to recoverable reserves, and the value of our undeveloped acreage in this area could decline in the future. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis. We utilize third-party services to maximize the efficiency of our organization. The cost of oilfield services may increase or decrease depending on the demand for services by other oil and gas companies. There is no assurance that we will be able to contract for such services on a timely basis or that the cost of such services will remain at a satisfactory or affordable level. Shortages or the high cost of frac crews, drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel or oilfield services could delay or adversely affect our development and exploration operations or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business depends on transportation by truck for our oil and condensate production, and our natural gas production depends on transportation facilities that are owned by third parties. We transport all of our oil and condensate production by truck, which is more expensive and less efficient than transportation via pipeline. Our natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems and processing facilities owned by third parties. Federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport oil and natural gas. The disruption of third-party facilities due to maintenance or weather could negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. We have no control over when or if such facilities are restored or what prices will be charged. A total shut-in of production could materially affect us due to a lack of cash flows, and if a substantial portion of the production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flows. 28 Table of Contents We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. Additionally we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: •environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater contamination; •abnormally pressured formations; •mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse; •fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines; •personal injuries and death; and •natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of: •injury or loss of life; •damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; •pollution and other environmental damage; •regulatory investigations and penalties; •suspension of our operations; and •repair and remediation costs. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased costs of capital could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms and cost of capital, or increases in interest rates. Changes in any one or more of these factors could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our access to capital, limit our ability to drill our identified locations and pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce our cash flows available for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. 29 Table of Contents Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our Senior Notes contains certain covenants that may inhibit our ability to make certain investments, incur additional indebtedness and engage in certain other transactions, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our future goals. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our Senior Notes includes certain covenants that, among other things, restrict: •our ability to incur or assume additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; •issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; •pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; •prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; •make loans and investments; •create or incur liens; •restrict distributions from our subsidiaries; •sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; •consolidate or merge with or into another entity, or sell all or substantially all of our assets; and •enter into new lines of business. A breach of the covenants under the indenture governing the Senior Notes or under the revolving credit facility could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. An event of default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in an acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under our credit facility would permit the lenders under the facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our revolving credit facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that debt. In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, including a leverage ratio. All of these restrictive covenants may restrict our ability to expand or pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of our revolving credit facility may be impacted by changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our revolving credit facility, in which case, depending on the actions taken by the lenders thereunder or their successors or assignees, such lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed under our revolving credit facility, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. If we were unable to repay such borrowings or interest, our lenders could proceed against their collateral. If the indebtedness under our revolving credit facility were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness may increase and reduce our financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2012, we had $156 million available and a borrowing base of $250 million under our revolving credit facility and $600 million in Senior Notes outstanding. In the future, we may incur significant additional indebtedness in order to make future acquisitions or to develop our properties. Our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following: •a significant portion of our cash flows could be used to service our indebtedness; 30 Table of Contents •a high level of debt would increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •the covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness will limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments; •a high level of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and, therefore, such competitors may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness would prevent us from pursuing; •our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry; •a high level of debt may make it more likely that a reduction in our borrowing base following a periodic redetermination could require us to repay a portion of our then outstanding bank borrowings; and •a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes. A high level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, oil and natural gas prices and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on our debt and future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. Factors that may affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock or a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital. In addition, our bank borrowing base is subject to periodic redeterminations on a semi-annual basis, effective September 1 and March 1 and up to one additional time per six-month period following each scheduled borrowing base redetermination, as may be requested by either us or the administrative agent under our revolving credit facility. In connection with the March 2013 redetermination, our borrowing base was increased to $285 million, primarily as a result of the growth of our proved reserves. In the future we could be forced to repay a portion of our then outstanding bank borrowings due to future redeterminations of our borrowing base. If we are forced to do so, we may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we do not have sufficient funds and are unable to arrange new financing, we may have to sell significant assets. Any such sale could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The inability of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to credit risk due to concentration of our oil and natural gas receivables with several significant customers. The largest purchaser of our oil and natural gas during the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was Chevron, accounting for 41% and 39% of our total revenues for these periods, respectively. We generally do not require our customers to post collateral. The inability or failure of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings. To achieve a more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil, we enter into derivative instruments for a portion of our oil, NGL and natural gas 31 Table of Contents production. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of our oil commodity derivative positions. We did not designate any of our derivative instruments as hedges for accounting purposes, and we record all derivative instruments in our balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments are recognized in current earnings. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments. Derivative instruments expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: •production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments; •the counter-party to the derivative instrument defaults on its contractual obligations; or •there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received for basis differentials. In addition, our derivative arrangements limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil. All of our current operations are located in central Louisiana and in the Mississippian Lime trend in northwestern Oklahoma, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a limited number of geographic areas. As of December 31, 2012, all of our proved reserves and our annual production were located in central Louisiana and in northwestern Oklahoma. This concentration could disproportionately expose us to operational and regulatory risk or other adverse developments in these areas, including, for example, transportation or treatment capacity constraints, curtailment of production or treatment plant closures for scheduled maintenance or weather. These factors could have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than if our properties were more diversified. Large competitors may be attracted to our core operating areas, which may increase our costs. Our operations in the Upper Gulf Coast tertiary trend and in the Mississippian Lime formation in northwestern Oklahoma and Kansas may attract companies that have greater resources than we do. These companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects or identify, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. Their presence in our areas of operations may also restrict our access to, or increase the cost of, oil and natural gas infrastructure, drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services, including fracking equipment and crews. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue exploration activities during periods of low oil and natural gas market prices. Our larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. See "Business—Competition" for additional discussion of the competitive environment in which we operate. 32 Table of Contents The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect our operations. We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. Title to the properties in which we have an interest may be impaired by title defects. We do not obtain title insurance and have not necessarily obtained drilling title opinions on all of our oil and natural gas properties. The existence of title deficiencies with respect to our oil and natural gas properties could reduce the value or render such properties worthless, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. A significant portion of our acreage is undeveloped leasehold acreage, which has a greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. Frequently, as a result of title examinations, certain curative work may be required to correct identified title defects, and such curative work entails time and expense. Our inability or failure to cure title defects could render some locations undrillable or cause us to lose our rights to some or all production from some of our oil and natural gas properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results if a comparable additional location to drill a development well cannot be identified. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions, including the Eagle Property Acquisition, and the integration of significant acquisitions may be difficult. We periodically evaluate acquisitions of reserves, properties, prospects and leaseholds and other strategic transactions that appear to fit within our overall business strategy. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including: •recoverable reserves; •future oil and natural gas prices and their appropriate differentials; •development and operating costs; and •potential environmental and other liabilities. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and potential recoverable reserves. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an "as is" basis. Indemnification from Eagle Energy is generally limited to an escrow account equal to 20% of the Preferred Stock issued as consideration, effective only during the 12-month period after the closing and subject to certain dollar limitations and minimums. We may not be able to collect on such indemnification because of disputes with Eagle Energy or its inability to pay. Moreover, there is a risk that we could ultimately be liable for unknown obligations related to the Eagle Property Acquisition, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Significant acquisitions and other strategic transactions may involve other risks, including: •diversion of our management's attention to evaluating, negotiating and integrating significant acquisitions and strategic transactions; 33 Table of Contents •the challenge and cost of integrating acquired operations, information management and other technology systems and business cultures with those of our operations while carrying on our ongoing business; •difficulty associated with coordinating geographically separate organizations; and •the challenge of attracting and retaining personnel associated with acquired operations. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. In addition, even after successfully integrating Eagle Energy's operations or another acquisition, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits we may expect in estimated proved reserves, production volume, cost savings from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated from an acquisition or realize these benefits within the expected time frame. Anticipated benefits of an acquisition may be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity prices in oil and natural gas industry conditions, risks and uncertainties relating to the exploratory prospects of the combined assets or operations, failure to retain key personnel, an increase in operating or other costs or other difficulties. We may experience additional challenges integrating the business of a privately operated company, like Eagle Energy. If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from an acquisition, our results of operations and stock price may be adversely affected. The proposed U.S. federal budget for fiscal year 2013 and proposed legislation contain certain provisions that, if passed as originally submitted, will have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Obama administration's budget proposals for fiscal year 2013 contains numerous proposed tax changes, and from time to time, legislation has been introduced that would enact many of these proposed changes. The proposed budget and legislation would repeal many tax incentives and deductions that are currently used by U.S. oil and gas companies and impose new fees. Among others, the provisions include: elimination of the ability to fully deduct intangible drilling costs in the year incurred; repeal of the percentage depletion deduction for oil and gas properties; repeal of the domestic manufacturing tax deduction for oil and gas companies; increase in the geological and geophysical amortization period for independent producers; and implementation of a fee on non-producing federal oil and gas leases. Should some or all of these provisions become law our taxes could increase, potentially significantly, after net operating losses are exhausted, which would have a negative impact on our net income and cash flows and could reduce our drilling activities. We do not know the ultimate impact these proposed changes may have on our business. We are subject to various governmental regulations that may cause us to incur substantial costs. From time to time, in varying degrees, political developments and federal and state laws and regulations affect our operations. In particular, price controls, taxes and other laws relating to the oil and natural gas industry, changes in these laws and changes in administrative regulations have affected, and in the future could affect, oil and natural gas production, operations and economics. We cannot predict how agencies or courts will interpret existing laws and regulations or the effect of these adoptions and interpretations may have on our business or financial condition. Our business is subject to laws and regulations promulgated by federal, state and local authorities relating to the exploration for, and the development, production and marketing of, oil and natural gas, 34 Table of Contents as well as safety matters. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. The discharge of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to significant liabilities on our part to the government, and third parties and may require us to incur substantial costs of remediation. The Company's sales of oil and gas may expose us to extensive regulation. The FERC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Federal Trade Commission hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical energy commodities markets relevant to the Company's business. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to the Company's physical sales, if any, of oil and gas, the partnership is required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies. Our operations are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our oil and natural gas exploration, production and development operations are subject to stringent federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations governing the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may, among other things, require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling, completion and production activities, limit or prohibit construction or drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, and other protected areas, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. We may be required to make significant capital and operating expenditures to prevent releases, manage wastewater discharges and control air emissions or perform remedial or other corrective actions at our wells and properties to comply with the requirements of these environmental laws and regulations or the terms or conditions of permits issued pursuant to such requirements. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, loss of our leases, incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations and the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of our operations due to our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and other hazardous substances and wastes, as a result of air emissions and wastewater discharges related to our operations, and because of historical operations and waste disposal practices. Spills or other releases of regulated substances, including such spills and releases that occur in the future, could expose us to material losses, expenditures and liabilities under applicable environmental laws and regulations. Under certain of such laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination, regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination and even if our operations met previous standards in the industry at the time they were conducted. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly well drilling, construction, completion or water management activities, air emissions control or waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general in addition to our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. 35 Table of Contents Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. In December 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, or GHGs, present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act, including one regulation that requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and another that regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources, effective January 2, 2011. In addition, the EPA adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHGs from certain sources in the United States, including, among others, certain onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recently approved final rules regulating air emissions from natural gas production operations could cause us to incur increased capital expenditures and operating costs, which may be significant. On August 16, 2012, the EPA published final regulations under the Clean Air Act that require additional emissions controls for natural gas and natural gas liquids production, including New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds ("VOCs") and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with such production activities. The final regulations require, among other things, the reduction of VOC emissions from natural gas wells through the use of reduced emission completions or "green completions" on all hydraulically fractured wells constructed or refractured after January 1, 2015. For well completion operations occurring at such well sites before January 1, 2015, the final regulations allow operators to capture and direct flowback emissions to completion combustion devices, such as flares, in lieu of performing green completions. These regulations also establish specific new requirements, effective in 2012, regarding emissions from dehydrators, storage tanks and other production equipment. Compliance with these requirements could increase our costs of development and production, which costs may be significant. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs, additional operating restrictions or delays, which could adversely affect our production. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We routinely utilize hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our oil and natural gas drilling and completion programs. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. However, the EPA has exercised federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, or SDWA, and recently 36 Table of Contents released draft permitting guidance for hydraulic fracturing activities using diesel. In addition, on November 23, 2011, the EPA announced that it was granting in part a petition to initiate rulemaking under the Toxic Substances Control Act, relating to chemical substances and mixtures used in oil and gas exploration and production. Congress has also considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In addition, on May 4, 2012, the Department of the Interior's Bureau of Land Management, or BLM, announced a proposed rule that, if adopted, would require companies to publicly disclose the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing operations, set requirements for well bore integrity, and establish flowback water standards for all hydraulic fracturing operations on federal and American Indian Tribal lands. Moreover, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations under certain circumstances. For instance, on October 20, 2011, Louisiana adopted new regulations that require hydraulic fracturing operators to publicly disclose the volume of hydraulic fracturing fluid, the type, trade name, supplier and volume of additives, and a list of chemical compounds contained in the additive, along with its maximum concentration, subject to certain trade secret protections. However, even trade secret chemicals will have to be identified by their chemical family. A mandatory disclosure of information regarding the constituents of hydraulic fracturing fluids could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based upon allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect the environment. Similarly, on July 1, 2012, Oklahoma adopted regulations requiring operators to publicly disclose the total volume of the hydraulic fracturing base fluid, the trade name, supplier, and general purpose of each chemical added to the fluid, and the chemical abstract service numbers of each additive to the fluid, subject to certain trade secret protections. In addition, there are also certain governmental reviews either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Furthermore, a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. For example, the EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014. Moreover, the EPA announced on October 20, 2011 that it is launching a study of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and currently plans to propose pretreatment regulations by 2014. In addition, the U.S. Department of Energy is conducting an investigation into practices the agency could recommend to better protect the environment from drilling using hydraulic fracturing completion methods. Certain members of the Congress have also called upon the U.S. Government Accountability Office to investigate how hydraulic fracturing might adversely affect water resources, the SEC to investigate the natural gas industry and any possible misleading of investors or the public regarding the economic feasibility of pursuing natural gas deposits in shales by means of hydraulic fracturing, and the U.S. Energy Information Administration to provide a better understanding of that agency's estimates regarding natural gas reserves, including reserves from shale formations, as well as uncertainties associated with those estimates. These on-going or proposed studies could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or otherwise. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA or other federal agencies, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements and attendant permitting delays as well as potential increases in costs. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. 37 Table of Contents Our operations are dependent on our rights and ability to receive or renew the required permits and other approvals from governmental authorities and other third parties. Performance of our operations require that we obtain and maintain numerous environmental and land use permits and other approvals authorizing our regulated activities. A decision by a governmental authority or other third party to deny, delay or restrictively condition the issuance of a new or renewed permit or other approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or other approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to initiate or continue operations at the affected location or facility. Expansion of our existing operations is also predicated on securing the necessary environmental or land use permits and other approvals, which we may not receive in a timely manner or at all. The enactment of derivatives legislation could impede our ability to manage business and financial risks by restricting our use of derivative instruments as hedges against fluctuating commodity prices. On July 21, 2010 new comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), was enacted that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, including us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC, the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act the CFTC has issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions would be exempt from these position limits. The position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Colombia in September of 2012 although the CFTC has stated that it will appeal the District Court's decision. The CFTC also has finalized other regulations, including critical rulemakings on the definition of "swap," "security-based swap," "swap dealer" and "major swap participant". The Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC Rules also will require us in connection with certain derivatives activities to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). In addition new regulations may require us to comply with margin requirements although these regulations are not finalized and their application to us is uncertain at this time. Other regulations also remain to be finalized, and the CFTC has delayed the compliance dates for various regulations already finalized. As a result it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules on us and the timing of such effects. The Dodd-Frank Act also may require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including from swap recordkeeping and reporting requirements and through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations. 38 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Common Stock For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including those relating to accounting standards and disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies. In April 2012, the current president signed into law the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for "emerging growth companies," including certain requirements relating to accounting standards and compensation disclosure. We are classified as an emerging growth company. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to (1) provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (2) comply with any new or revised financial accounting standards applicable to public companies until such standards are also applicable to private companies, (3) comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuers, (4) comply with any new audit rules adopted by the PCAOB after April 5, 2012 unless the SEC determines otherwise, (5) provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies or (6) hold shareholder advisory votes on executive compensation. Because we are a relatively small company, the requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may strain our resources, increase our costs and divert management attention, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. As a public company with listed equity securities, we need to comply with new laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related regulations of the SEC, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, with which we were not required to comply as a private company. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements will occupy a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management and will significantly increase our costs and expenses. We are required to: •institute a more comprehensive compliance function; •design, establish, evaluate and maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; •comply with rules promulgated by the NYSE; •prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws; •establish new internal policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and insider trading; •involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; and •establish an investor relations function. In addition, being a public company subject to these rules and regulations could require us, in the future, to accept less director and officer liability insurance coverage than we desire or to incur 39 Table of Contents substantial costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract new or additional qualified members to our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and compensation committee, and qualified executive officers. In connection with certain audits of our financial statements, our independent registered public accounting firm identified and reported misstatements to management. Certain of such adjustments were deemed to be the result of internal control deficiencies that constituted a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If one or more material weaknesses recur or if we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected. Prior to our initial public offering, we were a private company with limited accounting personnel to adequately execute our accounting processes and limited other supervisory resources with which to address our internal control over financial reporting. As such, we did not maintain an effective control environment to ensure that the design and execution of our controls has consistently resulted in effective review of our financial statements and supervision by appropriate individuals. The lack of adequate staffing levels resulted in insufficient time spent on review and approval of certain information used to prepare our financial statements. As a result of these factors, certain material misstatements in our annual financial statements were discovered and brought to the attention of our management by our independent registered public accounting firm for correction. We and our independent registered public accounting firm concluded that these control deficiencies constituted a material weakness in our control environment as of December 31, 2011. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We are not currently required to comply with the SEC's rules implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and are therefore not required to make a formal assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for that purpose until our 2013 fiscal year. We are required to comply with the SEC's rules implementing Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will require our management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC or the date we are no longer an "emerging growth company," which may be up to five full fiscal years following our initial public offering. To comply with the requirements of being a public company, we will need to implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hire additional accounting, finance and legal staff. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future and comply with the certification and reporting obligations under Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Further, our remediation efforts may not enable us to remedy or avoid material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in the future. Any failure to remediate deficiencies and to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in our implementation or improvement of our internal controls over financial reporting could result in material misstatements that are not prevented or detected on a timely basis, which could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the NYSE or other regulatory authorities. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. 40 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay, and we are currently prohibited from paying, dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Additionally, we are currently prohibited from making any cash dividends pursuant to the terms of our revolving credit facility and the Indenture of our Senior Notes. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in us will be if you sell your common stock at a price greater than you paid for it. Pursuant to the recently enacted JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 for so long as we are an emerging growth company and we may take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. We will be required to disclose changes made in our internal control over financial reporting on a quarterly basis and we will be required to assess the effectiveness of our controls annually. However, for as long as we are an "emerging growth company" under the recently enacted JOBS Act, our independent registered accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Even if we conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still decline to attest to our assessment or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an "emerging growth company" can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an "emerging growth company" can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an "emerging growth company." We are currently controlled by First Reserve, and First Reserve and Riverstone collectively hold a majority of the voting power of our common stock and certain actions by us will require the consent of First Reserve or Riverstone. Their interests as equity holders may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders or our noteholders. First Reserve currently owns an economic interest in us through FR Midstates Interholding LP ("FRMI"), which owns approximately 41% of our shares of common stock and is controlled by First Reserve. Eagle Energy, which is controlled by Riverstone Holdings, LLC ("Riverstone"), holds Preferred Stock issued as consideration in the Eagle Property Acquisition. On a pro forma basis following conversion of the Preferred Stock at a conversion price of $13.50, FRMI and Riverstone (together with Eagle Energy management) will own 30% and 27% of our shares of common stock, respectively. While they hold these interests, these entities will have significant influence over our operations, will have representatives on our board of directors and have significant influence over all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. 'This concentration of ownership will limit the ability of our stockholders to influence corporate matters, and as a result, actions may be taken that our shareholders may not view as beneficial. 41 Table of Contents In addition, we, FRMI and certain of our other stockholders have entered into a stockholders' agreement that permits FRMI to designate certain of our director nominees and prohibits us from engaging in certain transactions without the written consent of FRMI. The stockholders' agreement provides that the following actions by us require the consent of FRMI: •incurrence of debt that would result in a total net indebtedness to EBITDA ratio in excess of 2.50:1; •authorization, creation or issuance of any equity securities (other than pursuant to compensation plans approved by the compensation committee or in connection with certain permitted acquisitions); •redemption, acquisition or other purchase of any securities of the Company (other than certain repurchases from employees and directors); •amendment, repeal or alteration of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws; •any acquisition or disposition (where the amount of consideration exceeds $100 million in a single transaction or $200 million in any series of transactions during a calendar year); •consummation of a "change in control" transaction; •adoption, approval or issuance of any "poison pill" or similar rights plan; and •entry into any plan of liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company. These actions by us require the consent of FRMI until the earlier of (i) receipt by our board of directors of FRMI's written election to waive its rights, (ii) the date FRMI ceases to hold at least 35% of our outstanding common stock, (iii) the third anniversary of the closing of our initial public offering or (iv) the date on which there are no directors nominated by FRMI serving as members of our board of directors. The terms of the preferred stock permit Riverstone to designate one of our director nominees, who must be an employee of Riverstone or one of its affiliates, and prohibit us from engaging in certain transactions without the consent of Riverstone, including the following actions: •the creation or issuance of any class of capital stock senior to or on parity with the Preferred Stock; •the redemption, acquisition or purchase by us of any of our equity securities, other than a repurchase from an employee or director in connection with such person's termination or as provided in the agreement pursuant to which such equity securities were issued; •any change to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws that adversely affects the rights, preferences, privileges or voting rights of the holders of the Preferred Stock; •acquisitions or dispositions for which the amount of consideration exceeds 20% of our market capitalization in any single transaction or 40% of our market capitalization for any series of transactions during a calendar year; •entering into certain transactions with affiliates, other than transactions that do not exceed, in the aggregate, $10 million in any calendar year; •certain corporate transactions unless the holders of the Preferred Stock would receive consideration consisting solely of cash and/or marketable securities with an aggregate fair market value equal to or greater than the liquidation preference on such shares of Preferred Stock; and 42 Table of Contents •any increase or decrease in the size of our board of directors. As a result of FRMI's and Riverstone's equity ownership or voting power, director nominees and consent rights, our ability to engage in financing transactions or other significant transactions, such as a merger, acquisition, disposition or liquidation, may be limited. In connection with such transactions, conflicts of interest could arise between us and FRMI or Riverstone, and any conflict of interest may be resolved in a manner that does not favor us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities, which could adversely affect our business or prospects. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us, on the one hand, and First Reserve and its affiliates, including its portfolio companies, on the other hand, concerning among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities. First Reserve is a private equity firm in the business of making investments in entities primarily in the global energy sector. As a result, First Reserve's existing and future portfolio companies which it controls may compete with us for investment or business opportunities. These conflicts of interest may not be resolved in our favor. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, we renounce any interest or expectancy in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunity that may be from time to time presented to First Reserve or its affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, agents, shareholders, members, partners, affiliates and subsidiaries (other than us and our subsidiaries) or business opportunities that such parties participate in or desire to participate in, even if the opportunity is one that we might reasonably have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue if granted the opportunity to do so, and no such person shall be liable to us for breach of any fiduciary or other duty, as a director or officer or controlling stockholder or otherwise, by reason of the fact that such person pursues or acquires any such business opportunity, directs any such business opportunity to another person or fails to present any such business opportunity, or information regarding any such business opportunity, to us unless, in the case of any such person who is our director or officer, any such business opportunity is expressly offered to such director or officer solely in his or her capacity as our director or officer. As a result, First Reserve or its affiliates may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and may direct such opportunities to other businesses in which they have invested, in which case we may not become aware of or otherwise have the ability to pursue such opportunity. Further, such businesses may choose to compete with us for these opportunities. As a result, our renouncing our interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that may be from time to time presented to First Reserve and its affiliates could adversely impact our business or prospects if attractive business opportunities are procured by such parties for their own benefit rather than for ours. We are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Upon completion of our initial public offering and the Eagle Property Acquisition, Riverstone, First Reserve and certain of our stockholders, including the Stephen P. McDaniel (a member of our Board of Directors) and members of our executive management team, control a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our outstanding voting stock and we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a "controlled company" and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that: •a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; 43 Table of Contents •the nominating and corporate governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the •committee's purpose and responsibilities; •the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and •there be an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees. These requirements will not apply to us as long as we remain a "controlled company." We may utilize some or all of these exemptions. We will rely on the phase-in rules of the SEC and the NYSE with respect to the independence of our audit committee. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of December 31, 2012, we did not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff that were received 180 or more days prior to year-end. 