ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSRisks Relating to Our Business and IndustryYou should carefully read the risks and uncertainties described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our Class A common stock could fall.We have incurred losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. If we incur losses over an extended period of time, the value of our Class A common stock could decline.We experienced losses during our time as a development company and certain periods thereafter. We may not be profitable in future periods. A lack of profitability could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. We may not continue to remain profitable, which could impair our ability to complete future financings and have a material adverse effect on our business.Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. If we are unsuccessful in executing our business model, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We were formed in March 2008, we acquired our first oil refinery in June 2010 in an idle state and we acquired our first operating asset in December 2010. Therefore, we have a limited operating history and track record in executing our business model. Our future success depends on our ability to execute our business strategy effectively. Our limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We may not be successful in operating any of our refineries or any other properties we may acquire in the future. In addition, we have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by new companies, and specifically companies in the oil refining industry. If we do not manage these risks successfully, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected.The price volatility of crude oil, other feedstocks, blendstocks, refined products and fuel and utility services may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, cash flows and liquidity.Our revenues, profitability, cash flows and liquidity from operations depend primarily on the margin above operating expenses (including the cost of refinery feedstocks, such as crude oil, intermediate partially refined petroleum products, and natural gas liquids that are processed and blended into refined products) at which we are able to sell refined products. Refining is primarily a margin-based business and, to increase profitability, it is important to maximize the yields of high value finished products while minimizing the costs of feedstock and operating expenses. When the margin between refined product prices and crude oil and other feedstock costs contracts, our earnings, profitability and cash flows are negatively affected. Refining margins historically have been volatile, and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of a variety of factors, including fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, refined products and fuel and utility services. An increase or decrease in the price of crude oil will likely result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products; however, there may be a time lag in the realization, or no such realization, of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. The effect of changes in crude oil prices on our refining margins therefore depends in part on how quickly and how fully refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes.In addition, the nature of our business requires us to maintain substantial crude oil, feedstock and refined product inventories. Because crude oil, feedstock and refined products are commodities, we have no control over the changing market value of these inventories. Our crude oil, feedstock and refined product inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value under the last-in-first-out (“LIFO”) inventory valuation methodology. If the market value of our crude oil, feedstock and refined product inventories were to decline to an amount less than our LIFO cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of sales.Prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, blendstocks, and refined products depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the supply of and demand for crude oil, other feedstocks, gasoline, diesel, ethanol, asphalt and other refined products. Such supply and demand are affected by a variety of economic, market, environmental and political conditions.19Our direct operating expense structure also impacts our profitability. Our major direct operating expenses include employee and contract labor, maintenance and energy. Our predominant variable direct operating cost is energy, which is comprised primarily of fuel and other utility services. The volatility in costs of fuel, principally natural gas, and other utility services, principally electricity, used by our refineries and other operations affect our operating costs. Fuel and utility prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by factors outside our control, such as supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. Natural gas prices have historically been volatile and, typically, electricity prices fluctuate with natural gas prices. Future increases in fuel and utility prices may have a negative effect on our revenues, profitability and cash flows.Our historical financial statements may not be helpful in predicting our future performance.We have grown rapidly since our inception and have not owned or operated our refineries for a substantial period of time. Accordingly, our historical financial information may not be useful either as a means of understanding our current financial situation or as an indicator of our future results. For the period from March 1, 2008 to December 16, 2010, we were considered to be in the development stage. Our historical financial information for that period reflects our activities principally in connection with identifying acquisition opportunities; acquiring the Delaware City refinery assets and commencing a reconfiguration of the refinery; and acquiring the Paulsboro refinery. As a result of the Paulsboro and Toledo acquisitions, our historical consolidated financial results include the results of operations for Paulsboro and Toledo from December 17, 2010 and March 1, 2011 forward, respectively. Certain information in our financial statements and certain other financial data included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based in part on financial data related to, and the operations of, those companies that previously owned and operated our refineries. For example, at the time of its acquisition, Paulsboro represented the major portion of our business and assets. As has been the case in our acquisitions to date, it is likely that, when we acquire refineries, we will not have access to the type of historical financial information that we will report regarding the prior operation of the refineries. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to evaluate the probable impact of major acquisitions on our financial performance until we have operated the acquired refineries for a substantial period of time.Our profitability is affected by crude oil differentials, which fluctuate substantially.A significant portion of our profitability is derived from the ability to purchase and process crude oil feedstocks that historically have been cheaper than benchmark crude oils, such as the heavy, sour crude oils processed at our Delaware City and Paulsboro refineries and the WTI based crude oils processed at our Toledo refinery and delivered by rail to our East Coast refineries. These crude oil differentials vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on overall economic conditions and trends and conditions within the markets for crude oil and refined products. Any change in these crude oil differentials may have an impact on our earnings. Our rail investment and strategy to acquire cost advantaged Midcontinent and Canadian crude, which are priced based on WTI, could be adversely affected if the WTI-Brent differential narrows. For example, the WTI/WCS differential, a proxy for the difference between light U.S. and heavy Canadian crudes, has increased from $21.80 per barrel in 2012 to $24.62 per barrel for the year ended December 31, 2013, however, this increase may not be indicative of the differential going forward. Conversely, a narrowing of the light-heavy differential may reduce our refining margins and adversely affect our recent profitability and earnings. In addition, while our Toledo refinery benefits from a widening of the Dated Brent/WTI differential, a narrowing of this differential may result in our Toledo refinery losing a portion of its crude price advantage over certain of our competitors, which negatively impacts our profitability. This applies as well to our East Coast strategy of delivering crude by rail. Divergent views have been expressed as to the expected magnitude of changes to these crude differentials in future periods, including some analysts that expect these crude differentials to contract in upcoming periods. Any narrowing of these differentials could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.Our recent historical earnings have been concentrated and may continue to be concentrated in the future.Our three refineries have similar throughput capacity, however, favorable market conditions due to, among other things, geographic location, crude and refined product slates, and customer demand, may cause an individual refinery to contribute more significantly to our earnings than others for a period of time. For example, our Toledo, Ohio refinery has produced a substantial portion of our earnings over the past several quarters. As a result, if there were a significant disruption to operations at this refinery, our earnings could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) disproportionally to Toledo’s portion of our consolidated throughput. The Toledo refinery, or one of our other refineries, may continue to disproportionally affect our results of operations in the future. Any prolonged disruption to the operations of such refinery, whether due to labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to such facilities, severe weather conditions, interruption of utilities service or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.20A significant interruption or casualty loss at any of our refineries and related assets could reduce our production, particularly if not fully covered by our insurance. Failure by one or more insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event could materially and adversely affect our future cash flows, operating results and financial condition.Our business currently consists of owning and operating three refineries and related assets. As a result, our operations could be subject to significant interruption if any of our refineries were to experience a major accident, be damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster, or otherwise be forced to shut down or curtail production due to unforeseen events, such as acts of God, nature, orders of governmental authorities, supply chain disruptions impacting our crude rail facilities or other logistical assets, power outages, acts of terrorism, fires, toxic emissions and maritime hazards. Any such shutdown or disruption would reduce the production from that refinery. There is also risk of mechanical failure and equipment shutdowns both general and following unforeseen events. Further, in such situations, undamaged refinery processing units may be dependent on or interact with damaged sections of our refineries and, accordingly, are also subject to being shut down. In the event any of our refineries is forced to shut down for a significant period of time, it would have a material adverse effect on our earnings, our other results of operations and our financial condition as a whole.As protection against these hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, such potential losses and liabilities. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may increase substantially. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, coverage for hurricane damage can be limited, and coverage for terrorism risks can include broad exclusions. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position.Our insurance program includes a number of insurance carriers. Significant disruptions in financial markets could lead to a deterioration in the financial condition of many financial institutions, including insurance companies and, therefore, we may not be able to obtain the full amount of our insurance coverage for insured events.Our refineries are subject to interruptions of supply and distribution as a result of our reliance on pipelines and railroads for transportation of crude oil and refined products.During 2012 and 2013, we expanded and upgraded existing on-site railroad infrastructure at our Delaware City refinery, which significantly increased our capacity to unload crude by rail. Currently, the majority of the crude delivered to this facility is consumed at our Delaware City refinery, although we also transport some of the crude delivered by rail from Delaware City via barge to our Paulsboro refinery. The Delaware City rail unloading facilities allow our East Coast refineries to source WTI based crudes from Western Canada and the Midcontinent, which can provide significant cost advantages versus traditional Brent based international crudes. Any disruptions or restrictions to our supply of crude by rail due to problems with third party logistics infrastructure or operations or as a result of increased regulations, could increase our crude costs and negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. Our Toledo refinery receives a substantial portion of its crude oil and delivers a portion of its refined products through pipelines. The Enbridge system is our primary supply route for crude oil from Canada, the Bakken region and Michigan, and supplies approximately 55% to 60% of the crude oil used at our Toledo refinery. In addition, we source domestic crude oil through our connections to the Capline and Mid-Valley pipelines. We also distribute a portion of our transportation fuels through pipelines owned and operated by Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. and Buckeye Partners L.P. We could experience an interruption of supply or delivery, or an increased cost of receiving crude oil and delivering refined products to market, if the ability of these pipelines to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of accidents, weather interruptions, governmental regulation, terrorism, other third party action or casualty or other of events.In addition, due to the common carrier regulatory obligation applicable to interstate oil pipelines, capacity is prorated among shippers in accordance with the tariff then in effect in the event there are nominations in excess of capacity. Therefore, nominations by new shippers or increased nominations by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to us. Any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that we rely upon for transportation of crude oil and refined products could have a further material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We may have capital needs for which our internally generated cash flows and other sources of liquidity may not be adequate. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flows or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations or our future debt obligations, comply with certain deadlines related to environmental regulations and standards, or pursue our business strategies, including acquisitions, 21in which case our operations may not perform as we currently expect. We have substantial short-term capital needs and may have substantial long term capital needs. Our short-term working capital needs are primarily related to financing certain of our refined products inventory not covered by our various supply and Inventory Intermediation Agreements. We terminated our supply agreement with Statoil for our Paulsboro refinery effective March 31, 2013 and our MSCG Offtake Agreements for our Paulsboro and Delaware City refineries effective July 1, 2013. Concurrent with the termination of our MSCG Offtake Agreements, we entered into Inventory Intermediation Agreements with J. Aron at our Paulsboro and Delaware City refineries. Pursuant to the Inventory Intermediation Agreements, J. Aron purchases and holds title to all of the intermediate and finished products produced by the Delaware City and Paulsboro refineries and delivered into the tanks at the refineries (or at other locations outside of the refineries as agreed upon by both parties). Furthermore, J. Aron agrees to sell the intermediate and finished products back to us as they are discharged out of the refineries' tanks (or other locations outside of the refineries as agreed upon by both parties). We market and sell the finished products independently to third parties. If we cannot adequately handle our crude oil and feedstock requirements without the benefit of the Statoil arrangement at Paulsboro, or if we are required to obtain our crude oil supply at our other refineries without the benefit of the existing supply arrangements or the applicable counterparty defaults in its obligations, our crude oil pricing costs may increase as the number of days between when we pay for the crude oil and when the crude oil is delivered to us increases. Termination of our Inventory Intermediation Agreements with J. Aron would require us to finance our refined products inventory covered by the agreements at terms that may not be as favorable. Additionally, we are obligated to repurchase from J. Aron all volumes of products located at the refineries’ storage tanks (or at other locations outside of the refineries as agreed upon by both parties) upon termination of these agreements, which may have a material adverse impact on our working capital and financial condition. Further, if we are not able to market and sell our finished products to credit worthy customers, we may be subject to delays in the collection of our accounts receivable and exposure to additional credit risk. Such increased exposure could negatively impact our liquidity due to our increased working capital needs as a result of the increase in the amount of crude oil inventory and accounts receivable we would have to carry on our balance sheet. Our long-term needs for cash include those to support ongoing capital expenditures for equipment maintenance and upgrades during turnarounds at our refineries and to complete our routine and normally scheduled maintenance, regulatory and security expenditures. In addition, from time to time, we are required to spend significant amounts for repairs when one or more processing units experiences temporary shutdowns. We continue to utilize significant capital to upgrade equipment, improve facilities, and reduce operational, safety and environmental risks. In connection with the Paulsboro acquisition, we assumed certain significant environmental obligations, and may similarly do so in future acquisitions. We will likely incur substantial compliance costs in connection with new or changing environmental, health and safety regulations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition.” Our liquidity will affect our ability to satisfy any of these needs or obligations. We may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs.Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile due to a variety of factors, including uncertainty in the financial services sector, low consumer confidence, continued high unemployment, geopolitical issues and the current weak economic conditions. In addition, the fixed income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility that have negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. As a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from those markets diminished significantly. In particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce or, in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due. Moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.Competition from companies who produce their own supply of feedstocks, have extensive retail outlets, make alternative fuels or have greater financial and other resources than we do could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.Our refining operations compete with domestic refiners and marketers in regions of the United States in which we operate, as well as with domestic refiners in other regions and foreign refiners that import products into the United States. In addition, we compete with other refiners, producers and marketers in other industries that supply their own renewable 22fuels or alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. Certain of our competitors have larger and more complex refineries, and may be able to realize lower per-barrel costs or higher margins per barrel of throughput. Several of our principal competitors are integrated national or international oil companies that are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do and access to proprietary sources of controlled crude oil production. Unlike these competitors, we obtain substantially all of our feedstocks from unaffiliated sources. We are not engaged in the petroleum exploration and production business and therefore do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. We do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. Because of their integrated operations and larger capitalization, these companies may be more flexible in responding to volatile industry or market conditions, such as shortages of crude oil supply and other feedstocks or intense price fluctuations.Newer or upgraded refineries will often be more efficient than our refineries, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. We have taken significant measures to maintain our refineries including the installation of new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve our operations. However, these actions involve significant uncertainties, since upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels, the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design specifications and modifications may be needed to correct equipment that does not perform as expected. Any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have an adverse effect on future results of operations and financial condition. Over time, our refineries may become obsolete, or be unable to compete, because of the construction of new, more efficient facilities by our competitors.Any political instability, military strikes, sustained military campaigns, terrorist activity, or changes in foreign policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Any political instability, military strikes, sustained military campaigns, terrorist activity, or changes in foreign policy in areas or regions of the world where we acquire crude oil and other raw materials or sell our refined petroleum products may affect our business in unpredictable ways, including forcing us to increase security measures and causing disruptions of supplies and distribution markets. We may also be subject to United States trade and economic sanctions laws, which change frequently as a result of foreign policy developments, and which may necessitate changes to our crude oil acquisition activities. Further, like other industrial companies, our facilities may be the target of terrorist activities. Any act of war or terrorism that resulted in damage to any of our refineries or third-party facilities upon which we are dependent for our business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Continued economic turmoil in the global financial system has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the refining industry.Our business and profitability are affected by the overall level of demand for our products, which in turn is affected by factors such as overall levels of economic activity and business and consumer confidence and spending. Declines in global economic activity and consumer and business confidence and spending during the recent global downturn have significantly reduced the level of demand for our products. Reduced demand for our products has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, continued downturns in the economy impact the demand for refined fuels and, in turn, result in excess refining capacity. Refining margins are impacted by changes in domestic and global refining capacity, as increases in refining capacity can adversely impact refining margins, earnings and cash flows.Our business is indirectly exposed to risks faced by our suppliers, customers and other business partners. The impact on these constituencies of the risks posed by the continued economic turmoil in the global financial system have included or could include interruptions or delays in the performance by counterparties to our contracts, reductions and delays in customer purchases, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products and the inability of customers to pay for our products. Any of these events may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The geographic concentration of our East Coast refineries creates a significant exposure to the risks of the local economy and other local adverse conditions.Our East Coast refineries are both located in the mid-Atlantic region on the East Coast and therefore are vulnerable to economic downturns in that region. These refineries are located within a relatively limited geographic area and we primarily market our refined products in that area. As a result, we are more susceptible to regional conditions than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors and any unforeseen events or circumstances that affect the area could also materially adversely affect our revenues and profitability. These factors include, among other things, changes in the economy, damages to infrastructure, weather conditions, demographics and population.23We must make substantial capital expenditures on our operating facilities to maintain their reliability and efficiency. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and/or in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of new facilities (or improvements and repairs to our existing facilities and equipment) could adversely affect our ability to achieve targeted internal rates of return and operating results. Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors in the marketplace, many of which are beyond our control, including:•denial or delay in issuing regulatory approvals and/or permits;•unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor;•disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials;•severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers;•shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages;•market-related increases in a project’s debt or equity financing costs; and/or•non-performance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or sub-contractors involved with a project.Our refineries contain many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. Equipment, even if properly maintained, may require significant capital expenditures and expenses to keep it operating at optimum efficiency. One or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnarounds for such units. Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating.Our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals, which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand. Any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our business. If we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Acquisitions that we may undertake in the future involve a number of risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits.We may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. We may selectively consider strategic acquisitions in the future within the refining and mid-stream sector based on performance through the cycle, advantageous access to crude oil supplies, attractive refined products market fundamentals and access to distribution and logistics infrastructure. Our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify acceptable acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth and many other factors beyond our control. Risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to the diversion of management time and attention from our existing business, liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities and greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental, safety or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results, and the incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets. We may also enter into transition services agreements in the future with sellers of any additional refineries we acquire. Such services may not be performed timely and effectively, and any significant disruption in such transition services or unanticipated costs related to such services could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Our business may suffer if any of our senior executives or other key employees discontinues employment with us. Furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in our labor force may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity.Our future success depends to a large extent on the services of our senior executives and other key employees. Our business depends on our continuing ability to recruit, train and retain highly qualified employees in all areas of our operations, including engineering, accounting, business operations, finance and other key back-office and mid-office personnel. Furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced employees with proficiency in multiple tasks. The competition for these employees is intense, and the loss of these executives or employees could harm our business. If any of these executives or other key personnel resigns or becomes unable to continue in his or her present role and is not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected.24A portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations.As of December 31, 2013, approximately 296 of our 460 employees at Paulsboro are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in March of 2015. In addition, 678 of our 1,066 employees at Delaware City and Toledo are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in February of 2015. We may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms or at all when such agreements expire. A failure to do so may increase our costs. Other employees of ours, who are not presently represented by a union, may become so represented in the future. In addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our hedging activities may limit our potential gains, exacerbate potential losses and involve other risks.We may enter into commodity derivatives contracts to hedge our crude price risk or crack spread risk with respect to a portion of our expected gasoline and distillate production on a rolling basis. Consistent with that policy we, or MSCG or Statoil at our request, may hedge some percentage of future crude supply. We may enter into hedging arrangements with the intent to secure a minimum fixed cash flow stream on the volume of products hedged during the hedge term and to protect against volatility in commodity prices. Our hedging arrangements may fail to fully achieve these objectives for a variety of reasons, including our failure to have adequate hedging arrangements, if any, in effect at any particular time and the failure of our hedging arrangements to produce the anticipated results. We may not be able to procure adequate hedging arrangements due to a variety of factors. Moreover, such transactions may limit our ability to benefit from favorable changes in crude oil and refined product prices. In addition, our hedging activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which:•the volumes of our actual use of crude oil or production of the applicable refined products is less than the volumes subject to the hedging arrangement;•accidents, interruptions in feedstock transportation, inclement weather or other events cause unscheduled shutdowns or otherwise adversely affect our refineries, or those of our suppliers or customers;•changes in commodity prices have a material impact on collateral and margin requirements under our hedging arrangements, resulting in our being subject to margin calls;•the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or•a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts the commodity or crack spread subject to the hedging arrangement.As a result, the effectiveness of our hedging strategy could have a material impact on our financial results. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”In addition, these hedging activities involve basis risk. Basis risk in a hedging arrangement occurs when the price of the commodity we hedge is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged commodity is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. For example, a NYMEX index used for hedging certain volumes of crude oil or refined products may have more or less variability than the cost or price for such crude oil or refined products. We generally do not expect to hedge the basis risk inherent in our derivatives contracts.Our commodity derivative activities could result in period-to-period earnings volatility.We do not apply hedge accounting to all of our commodity derivative contracts and, as a result, unrealized gains and losses will be charged to our earnings based on the increase or decrease in the market value of the unsettled position. These gains and losses may be reflected in our income statement in periods that differ from when the underlying hedged items (i.e., gross margins) are reflected in our income statement. Such derivative gains or losses in earnings may produce significant period-to-period earnings volatility that is not necessarily reflective of our underlying operational performance.The adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivatives contracts to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.The United States Congress in 2010 adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, which, among other things, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. In connection with the Dodd-Frank Act, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC, adopted regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets. Although these regulations were recently vacated by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, the court remanded the matter to the CFTC and the CFTC voted on November 15, 2012 to appeal the District Court’s decision. The legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements, and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements if we do not satisfy certain specific exceptions. The legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivatives contracts to transfer or assign some of their derivatives contracts to a separate entity, which may not be as 25creditworthy as the current counterparty. The legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivatives contracts (including through requirements to post collateral), materially alter the terms of derivatives contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivatives contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations.Our operations could be disrupted if our information systems are hacked or fail, causing increased expenses and loss of sales.Our business is highly dependent on financial, accounting and other data processing systems and other communications and information systems, including our enterprise resource planning tools. We process a large number of transactions on a daily basis and rely upon the proper functioning of computer systems. If a key system was hacked or otherwise interfered with by an unauthorized access, or was to fail or experience unscheduled downtime for any reason, even if only for a short period, our operations and financial results could be affected adversely. Our systems could be damaged or interrupted by a security breach, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure or similar event. We have a formal disaster recovery plan in place, but this plan may not prevent delays or other complications that could arise from an information systems failure. Further, our business interruption insurance may not compensate us adequately for losses that may occur.Product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Product liability is a significant commercial risk. Substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries and property damage caused by the use of or exposure to various products. Failure of our products to meet required specifications or claims that a product is inherently defective could result in product liability claims from our shippers and customers, and also arise from contaminated or off-specification product in commingled pipelines and storage tanks and/or defective fuels. Product liability claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.We may incur significant liability under, or costs and capital expenditures to comply with, environmental and health and safety regulations, which are complex and change frequently. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the handling of petroleum and other regulated materials, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and remediation of discharges of petroleum and petroleum products, characteristics and composition of gasoline and distillates and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Our operations are also subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. We cannot predict what additional environmental, health and safety legislation or regulations may be adopted in the future, or how existing or future laws or regulations may be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. Certain environmental laws impose strict, and in certain circumstances, joint and several, liability for costs of investigation and cleanup of such spills, discharges or releases on owners and operators of, as well as persons who arrange for treatment or disposal of regulated materials at, contaminated sites. Under these laws, we may incur liability or be required to pay penalties for past contamination, and third parties may assert claims against us for damages allegedly arising out of any past or future contamination. The potential penalties and clean-up costs for past or future releases or spills, the failure of prior owners of our facilities to complete their clean-up obligations, the liability to third parties for damage to their property, or the need to address newly-discovered information or conditions that may require a response could be significant, and the payment of these amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our Delaware City refinery and our Delaware City Rail Terminal are located in Delaware's coastal zone where certain activities are regulated under the Delaware Coastal Zone Act and closely monitored by environmental interest groups. On June 14, 2013, two administrative appeals were filed by the Sierra Club and Delaware Audubon regarding a permit Delaware City Refining Company LLC (“DCR”) obtained to allow loading of crude oil onto barges. The appeals allege that both the loading of crude oil onto barges and the operation of the Delaware City rail unloading terminal violate Delaware’s Coastal Zone Act. The first appeal is Number 2013-1 before the State Coastal Zone Industrial Control Board (the “CZ Board”), and the second appeal is before the Environmental Appeals Board and appeals Secretary’s Order No. 2013-A-0020. The CZ Board held a hearing on the first appeal on July 16, 2013, and ruled in favor of DCR and the State of Delaware and dismissed the Appellants’ appeal for lack of standing. Sierra Club and Delaware Audubon have appealed that decision to the Delaware Superior Court, New Castle County, Case No. N13A-09-001 ALR, and Delaware City Refining 26and the State have filed cross-appeals. Briefs are due to be filed in this appeal in the first quarter of 2014 but no date has been set for a decision by the Superior Court. A hearing on the second appeal before the Environmental Appeals Board, case no. 2013-06, was held on January 13, 2014, and the Board ruled in favor of Delaware City Refining and the State and dismissed the appeal for lack of jurisdiction. A written decision from the Board is pending, after which the Appellants will again have the right to appeal the decision to Superior Court. If the Appellants in one or both of these matters ultimately prevail, the outcome may have an adverse material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Environmental clean-up and remediation costs of our sites and environmental litigation could decrease our net cash flow, reduce our results of operations and impair our financial condition.We are subject to liability for the investigation and clean-up of environmental contamination at each of the properties that we own or operate and at off-site locations where we arrange for the treatment or disposal of regulated materials. We may become involved in future litigation or other proceedings. If we were to be held responsible for damages in any litigation or proceedings, such costs may not be covered by insurance and may be material. Historical soil and groundwater contamination has been identified at each of our refineries. Currently remediation projects are underway in accordance with regulatory requirements at the Paulsboro and Delaware City refineries. In connection with the acquisitions of our refineries, the prior owners have retained certain liabilities or indemnified us for certain liabilities, including those relating to pre-acquisition soil and groundwater conditions, and in some instances we have assumed certain liabilities and environmental obligations, including certain remediation obligations at the Paulsboro refinery. If the prior owners fail to satisfy their obligations for any reason, or if significant liabilities arise in the areas in which we assumed liability, we may become responsible for remediation expenses and other environmental liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. As a result, in addition to making capital expenditures or incurring other costs to comply with environmental laws, we also may be liable for significant environmental litigation or for investigation and remediation costs and other liabilities arising from the ownership or operation of these assets by prior owners, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Contractual Obligations and Commitments” and “Item 1. Business—Environmental, Health and Safety Matters.”We may also face liability arising from current or future claims alleging personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other regulated materials, such as asbestos, benzene, MTBE and petroleum hydrocarbons, at or from our facilities. We may also face liability for personal injury, property damage, natural resource damage or clean-up costs for the alleged migration of contamination from our properties. A significant increase in the number or success of these claims could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.Regulation of emissions of greenhouse gases could force us to incur increased capital and operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Both houses of Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, such as carbon dioxide and methane, including proposals to: (i) establish a cap and trade system, (ii) create a federal renewable energy or “clean” energy standard requiring electric utilities to provide a certain percentage of power from such sources, and (iii) create enhanced incentives for use of renewable energy and increased efficiency in energy supply and use. In addition, the EPA is taking steps to regulate GHGs under the existing federal Clean Air Act, or CAA. The EPA has already adopted regulations limiting emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles, addressing the permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources, and requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources, including refineries. These and similar regulations could require us to incur costs to monitor and report GHG emissions or reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. In addition, various states, individually as well as in some cases on a regional basis, have taken steps to control GHG emissions, including adoption of GHG reporting requirements, cap and trade systems and renewable portfolio standards. Efforts have also been undertaken to delay, limit or prohibit EPA and possibly state action to regulate GHG emissions, and it is not possible at this time to predict the ultimate form, timing or extent of federal or state regulation. In the event we do incur increased costs as a result of increased efforts to control GHG emissions, we may not be able to pass on any of these costs to our customers. Such requirements also could adversely affect demand for the refined petroleum products that we produce. Any increased costs or reduced demand could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operation.Renewable fuels mandates may reduce demand for the refined fuels we produce, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, the EPA has issued Renewable Fuel Standards, or RFS, implementing mandates to blend renewable fuels into the petroleum fuels produced and sold in the United States. Under RFS, the volume of renewable fuels that obligated refineries must blend into their finished 27petroleum fuels increases annually over time until 2022. In addition, certain states have passed legislation that requires minimum biodiesel blending in finished distillates. On October 13, 2010, the EPA raised the maximum amount of ethanol allowed under federal law from 10% to 15% for cars and light trucks manufactured since 2007. The maximum amount allowed under federal law currently remains at 10% ethanol for all other vehicles. Existing laws and regulations could change, and the minimum volumes of renewable fuels that must be blended with refined petroleum fuels may increase. Because we do not produce renewable fuels, increasing the volume of renewable fuels that must be blended into our products displaces an increasing volume of our refinery’s product pool, potentially resulting in lower earnings and profitability. In addition, in order to meet certain of these and future EPA requirements, we must purchase credits, known as “RINS,” which have fluctuating costs.Our pipelines are subject to federal and/or state regulations, which could reduce the amount of cash we generate.Our transportation activities are subject to regulation by multiple governmental agencies. The regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and affects profitability. Additional proposals and proceedings that affect the oil industry are regularly considered by Congress, the states, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the United States Department of Transportation, and the courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective or what impact such proposals may have. Projected operating costs related to our pipelines reflect the recurring costs resulting from compliance with these regulations, and these costs may increase due to future acquisitions, changes in regulation, changes in use, or discovery of existing but unknown compliance issues.We are subject to strict laws and regulations regarding employee and process safety, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and profitability.We are subject to the requirements of the Occupational Safety & Health Administration, or OSHA, and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, OSHA requires that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that we provide this information to employees, state and local governmental authorities, and local residents. Failure to comply with OSHA requirements, including general industry standards, process safety standards and control of occupational exposure to regulated substances, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and the cash flows of the business if we are subjected to significant fines or compliance costs.Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance.We are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal, state, local and foreign taxes such as income, excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, property, gross receipts, withholding and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed that could result in increased expenditures for tax liabilities in the future. These liabilities are subject to periodic audits by the respective taxing authorities, which could increase our tax liabilities. Subsequent changes to our tax liabilities as a result of these audits may also subject us to interest and penalties. There can be no certainty that our federal, state, local or foreign taxes could be passed on to our customers.Our rapid growth may strain our resources and divert management’s attention. We were a development stage enterprise prior to our acquisition of Paulsboro on December 17, 2010. With the further acquisition of Toledo, the re-start of Delaware City, our IPO and construction of our rail facilities, we have experienced rapid growth in a short period of time. Continued expansion may strain our resources and force management to focus attention from other business concerns to the development of incremental internal controls and procedures, which could harm our business and operating results. We may also need to hire more employees, which will increase our costs and expenses.We rely on Statoil and MSCG, over whom we may have limited control, to provide us with certain volumetric and pricing data used in our inventory valuations.We rely on Statoil and MSCG to provide us with certain volumetric and pricing data used in our inventory valuations. Our limited control over the accuracy and the timing of the receipt of this data could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce financial statements in a timely manner.Changes in our credit profile could adversely affect our business.Changes in our credit profile could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms for our purchases or require us to post security or letters of credit prior to payment. Due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of 28more burdensome payment terms on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. This, in turn, could cause us to be unable to operate one or more of our refineries at full capacity.Changes in laws or standards affecting the transportation of North American crude oil by rail could significantly impact our operations, and as a result cause our costs to increase.Investigations into recent rail accidents involving the transport of crude oil have prompted government agencies and other interested parties to call for increased regulation of the transport of crude oil by rail including in the areas of crude oil constituents, rail car design, routing of trains and other matters. If changes in law, regulations or industry standards occur that result in requirements to reduce the volatile or flammable constituents in crude oil that is transported by rail, alter the design or standards for rail cars, change the routing or scheduling of trains carrying crude oil, or any other changes that detrimentally affect the economics of delivering North American crude oil by rail to our refineries, our costs could increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We could incur substantial costs or disruptions in our business if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits and authorizations or otherwise comply with health, safety, environmental and other laws and regulations.Our operations require numerous permits and authorizations under various laws and regulations. These authorizations and permits are subject to revocation, renewal or modification and can require operational changes to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and/or health and safety. A violation of authorization or permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, major modifications of our operations could require modifications to our existing permits or upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment. Any or all of these matters could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.We may incur significant liability under, or costs and capital expenditures to comply with, environmental and health and safety regulations, which are complex and change frequently.Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the handling of petroleum and other regulated materials, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and remediation of discharges of petroleum and petroleum products, characteristics and composition of gasoline and distillates and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Our operations are also subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety.We cannot predict what additional environmental, health and safety legislation or regulations may be adopted in the future, or how existing or future laws or regulations may be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time.Certain environmental laws impose strict, and in certain circumstances joint and several liability for, costs of investigation and cleanup of such spills, discharges or releases on owners and operators of, as well as persons who arrange for treatment or disposal of regulated materials at contaminated sites. Under these laws, we may incur liability or be required to pay penalties for past contamination, and third parties may assert claims against us for damages allegedly arising out of any past or future contamination. The potential penalties and clean-up costs for past or future releases or spills, the failure of prior owners of our facilities to complete their clean-up obligations, the liability to third parties for damage to their property, or the need to address newly-discovered information or conditions that may require a response could be significant, and the payment of these amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Furthermore, our Delaware City refinery and our Delaware City Rail Terminal are located in Delaware's coastal zone where certain activities are regulated under the Delaware Coastal Zone Act and closely monitored by environmental interest groups. On June 14, 2013, two administrative appeals were filed by the Sierra Club and Delaware Audubon regarding a permit Delaware City Refining Company LLC (“DCR”) obtained to allow loading of crude oil onto barges. The appeals allege that both the loading of crude oil onto barges and the operation of the Delaware City rail unloading terminal violate Delaware’s Coastal Zone Act. The first appeal is Number 2013-1 before the State Coastal Zone Industrial Control Board (the “CZ Board”), and the second appeal is before the Environmental Appeals Board and appeals Secretary’s Order No. 2013-A-0020. The CZ Board held a hearing on the first appeal on July 16, 2013, and ruled in favor of DCR and the State of Delaware and dismissed the Appellants’ appeal for lack of standing. Sierra Club and Delaware Audubon have appealed that decision to the Delaware Superior Court, New Castle County, Case No. N13A-09-001 ALR, and Delaware City Refining and the State have filed cross-appeals. Briefs are due to be filed in this appeal in the first quarter of 2014 but no date has been set for a decision by the Superior Court. A hearing on the second appeal before the Environmental Appeals Board, case no. 2013-06, was held on January 13, 2014, and the Board ruled in favor of Delaware City Refining and the State and 29dismissed the appeal for lack of jurisdiction. A written decision from the Board is pending, after which the Appellants will again have the right to appeal the decision to Superior Court. If the Appellants in one or both of these matters ultimately prevail, the outcome may have an adverse material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Risks Related to Our IndebtednessOur substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness.Our substantial indebtedness may significantly affect our financial flexibility in the future. As of December 31, 2013, we have total long-term debt including the Delaware Economic Development Authority Loan, of $747.6 million, all of which is secured, and we could have incurred an additional $615.9 million of senior secured indebtedness under our existing debt agreements. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our strategy includes executing future refinery acquisitions. Any significant acquisition would likely require us to incur additional indebtedness in order to finance all or a portion of such acquisition. The level of our indebtedness has several important consequences for our future operations, including that:•a significant portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes;•covenants contained in our existing debt arrangements limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets and make certain investments;•these covenants also require us to meet or maintain certain financial tests, which may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our industry, such as being able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities when they arise;•our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and•we may be at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; and we may be more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions.Our substantial indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations, certain of which contain cross-default and/or cross-acceleration provisions. We have significant principal payments due under our debt instruments. Our subsidiaries’ ability to meet their principal obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which in turn will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay our substantial indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may be required to sell assets, to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing. Refinancing may not be possible and additional financing may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all.Despite our level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt, which could exacerbate the risks described above.We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future including additional secured debt. Although our debt instruments and financing arrangements contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. To the extent new debt is added to our currently anticipated debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described above would increase. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness.Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may limit our ability to undertake certain types of transactions.Various covenants in our debt instruments and other financing arrangements may restrict our and our subsidiaries’ financial flexibility in a number of ways. Our indebtedness subjects us to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments and investments, consummate certain asset sales or asset swaps, conduct businesses other than our current businesses, or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Some of these debt instruments also require our subsidiaries to satisfy or maintain certain financial condition tests in certain circumstances. Our subsidiaries’ ability to meet these financial condition tests can be affected by events beyond our control and they may not meet such tests.30Provisions in our indenture could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party.Certain provisions of our indenture could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a “change in control” as defined in the indenture, holders of our notes could require us to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase.Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure and Our Class A Common StockOur only material asset is our interest in PBF LLC. Accordingly, we depend upon distributions from PBF LLC and its subsidiaries to pay our taxes, meet our other obligations and/or pay dividends in the future. We are a holding company and all of our operations are conducted through subsidiaries of PBF Holding. We have no independent means of generating revenue and no material assets other than our ownership interest in PBF LLC. Therefore, we depend on the earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including our indebtedness, tax liabilities and obligations to make payments under our tax receivable agreement. If we or PBF LLC do not receive such cash distributions, dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries, we and PBF LLC may be unable to meet our obligations and/or pay dividends. We intend to cause PBF LLC to make distributions to its members in an amount sufficient to enable us to cover all applicable taxes at assumed tax rates, make payments owed by us under the tax receivable agreement, and to pay other obligations and dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent we need funds and PBF LLC or any of its subsidiaries is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of our financing or other contractual arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, such restrictions could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Our ABL Revolving Credit Facility, 8.25% Senior Secured Notes due 2020 issued by PBF Holding in February 2012, or Senior Secured Notes, and certain of our other outstanding debt arrangements include a restricted payment covenant, which restricts the ability of PBF Holding to make distributions to us, and we anticipate our future debt will contain a similar restriction. In addition, there may be restrictions on payments by our subsidiaries under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. For example, PBF Holding is generally prohibited under Delaware law from making a distribution to a member to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, liabilities of the limited liability company (with certain exceptions) exceed the fair value of its assets. As a result, we may be unable to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligations and make payments to our stockholders, if any. Blackstone and First Reserve through their ownership of units of PBF LLC have substantial influence or control over us, and their interests may differ from those of our public stockholders. As of February 20, 2014, Blackstone and First Reserve collectively possess in the aggregate approximately 38.0% of the combined voting power of our common stock. As a result, Blackstone and First Reserve have the ability to significantly influence or control the management and affairs of our company and potentially determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of our directors, the appointment of management, future issuances of securities, the incurrence of debt by us, amendments to our organizational documents, making acquisitions and significant investments and capital expenditures and the entering into of extraordinary transactions. Blackstone’s and First Reserve’s interests may not in all cases be aligned with our Class A common stockholders’ interests. For example, Blackstone and First Reserve may have different tax positions which could influence their positions, including regarding whether and when we dispose of assets and whether and when we incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the tax receivable agreement described below. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration these tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to our Class A common stockholders or us. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.”Blackstone and First Reserve may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to our Class A common stockholders. For example, they could influence us to make acquisitions, investments and capital expenditures that increase our indebtedness, or to sell revenue-generating assets or to not make such acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures. Pursuant to the stockholders agreement we are party to with Blackstone and First Reserve, following the January 2014 Secondary Offering, Blackstone and First Reserve will each have the ability to nominate two of our directors so long as it owns between 15% and 25% of our voting stock, and one director so long as it owns between 7.5% and 15% 31of our voting stock. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company. Lastly, Blackstone and First Reserve are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities identified by Blackstone or First Reserve. They may also pursue acquisition opportunities that are complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us.Although we are no longer a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules, we may rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements during a one-year transition period. Following our January 2014 Secondary Offering, Blackstone and First Reserve no longer control a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock. As a result, we no longer are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a majority of our directors must be independent within one year of the date we no longer qualify as a “controlled company.” The NYSE rules also require that we have at least one independent director on each of the compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees prior to the date we no longer qualify as a “controlled company,” at least a majority of independent members within 90 days of such date and that the compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees be composed entirely of independent directors within one year of such date. We might utilize certain of these exemptions during these transition periods. Accordingly, until January 2015, our stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence.” We will be required to pay the holders of PBF LLC Series A Units and PBF LLC Series B Units for certain tax benefits we may claim arising in connection with our prior offerings and future exchanges of PBF LLC Series A Units for shares of our Class A Common Stock and related transactions, and the amounts we may pay could be significant. We are party to a tax receivable agreement that provides for the payment from time to time by PBF Energy to the holders of PBF LLC Series A Units and PBF LLC Series B Units of 85% of the benefits, if any, that PBF Energy is deemed to realize as a result of (i) the increases in tax basis resulting from its acquisitions of PBF LLC Series A Units, including such acquisitions in connection with our prior offerings or in the future and (ii) certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.”We expect that the payments that we may make under the tax receivable agreement will be substantial. As of December 31, 2013, we have recognized a liability for the tax receivable agreement of $287.3 million reflecting our estimate of the undiscounted amounts that we expect to pay under the agreement due to exchanges that occurred prior to that date, and to range over the next five years from approximately $12.5 million to $34.6 million per year and decline thereafter. Assuming no material changes in the relevant tax law, and that we earn sufficient taxable income to realize all tax benefits that are subject to the tax receivable agreement, we expect that additional future payments under the tax receivable agreement relating to the exchange by the selling stockholders in connection with the January 2014 Secondary Offering to aggregate $140.5 million. Future payments by us in respect of subsequent exchanges of PBF LLC Series A Units would be in addition to these amounts and are expected to be substantial as well. For example, if 50%, with respect to the amount and timing of PBF Energy income, or more of the capital and profits interests in PBF LLC are transferred in a taxable sale or exchange within a period of 12 consecutive months, PBF LLC will undergo, for federal income tax purposes, a “technical termination” that could affect the amount of PBF LLC’s taxable income in any year and the allocation of taxable income among the members of PBF LLC, including PBF Energy. If PBF Energy does not have taxable income, PBF Energy generally is not required (absent a change of control or circumstances requiring an early termination payment) to make payments under the tax receivable agreement for that taxable year because no benefit will have been actually realized. However, any tax benefits that do not result in realized benefits in a given tax year will likely generate tax attributes that may be utilized to generate benefits in previous or future tax years. The utilization of such tax attributes will result in payments under the tax receivable agreement. The foregoing numbers are merely estimates based on assumptions that are subject to change due to various factors, including, among other factors, the timing of exchanges of PBF LLC Series A Units for shares of PBF Energy’s Class A common stock as contemplated by the tax receivable agreement, the price of PBF Energy’s Class A common stock at the time of such exchanges, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, and the amount and timing of PBF Energy’s income. The actual payments could differ materially from the estimates above. It is possible that future transactions or events could increase or decrease the actual tax benefits realized and the corresponding tax receivable agreement payments. There may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if, as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise, (i) the payments under the tax receivable agreement exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable 32agreement, and/or (ii) distributions to PBF Energy by PBF LLC are not sufficient to permit PBF Energy, after it has paid its taxes and other obligations, to make payments under the tax receivable agreement. The payments under the tax receivable agreement are not conditioned upon any recipient’s continued ownership of us. In certain cases, payments by us under the tax receivable agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement. These provisions may deter a change in control of our Company. The tax receivable agreement provides that upon certain changes of control, or if, at any time, PBF Energy elects an early termination of the tax receivable agreement, PBF Energy’s (or its successor’s) obligations with respect to exchanged or acquired PBF LLC Series A Units (whether exchanged or acquired before or after such transaction) would be based on certain assumptions, including (i) that PBF Energy would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement and (ii) that the subsidiaries of PBF LLC will sell certain nonamortizable assets (and realize certain related tax benefits) no later than a specified date. Moreover, in each of these instances, we would be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value (at a discount rate equal to LIBOR plus 100 basis points) of the anticipated future tax benefits (based on the foregoing assumptions). Accordingly, payments under the tax receivable agreement may be made years in advance of the actual realization, if any, of the anticipated future tax benefits and may be significantly greater than the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement. Assuming that the market value of a share of our Class A common stock equals $31.46 per share (the closing price on December 31, 2013) and that LIBOR were to be 1.85%, we estimate that, as of December 31, 2013 the aggregate amount of these accelerated payments would have been approximately $789.4 million if triggered immediately on such date. In these situations, our obligations under the tax receivable agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. We may not be able to finance our obligations under the tax receivable agreement and our existing indebtedness may limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions to us to pay these obligations. These provisions may deter a potential sale of our Company to a third party and may otherwise make it less likely that a third party would enter into a change of control transaction with us. Moreover, payments under the tax receivable agreement will be based on the tax reporting positions that we determine in accordance with the tax receivable agreement. We will not be reimbursed for any payments previously made under the tax receivable agreement if the Internal Revenue Service subsequently disallows part or all of the tax benefits that gave rise to such prior payments. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the tax receivable agreement that are significantly in excess of the benefits that we actually realize in respect of (i) the increases in tax basis resulting from our purchases or exchanges of PBF LLC Series A Units and (ii) certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract our management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. We have implemented additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. In addition, sustaining our growth also will require us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources to identify new professionals to join our firm and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. These activities may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We expect to incur significant additional annual expenses related to these steps and other public company expenses.We cannot assure you that we will continue to declare dividends or have the available cash to make dividend payments.Although we currently intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our Class A common stock, the declaration, amount and payment of any dividends will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors. We are not obligated under any applicable laws, our governing documents or any contractual agreements with our existing owners or otherwise to declare or pay any dividends or other distributions (other than the obligations of PBF LLC to make tax distributions to its members). Our board of directors may take into account, among other things, general economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, plans for expansion, tax, legal, regulatory and contractual restrictions and implications, including under our outstanding debt documents, and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant in determining whether to declare or pay any dividend. Because PBF Energy is a holding company with no material assets (other than the equity interests of its direct subsidiary), its cash flow 33and ability to pay dividends is dependent upon the financial results and cash flows of its direct subsidiary PBF Holding and its operating subsidiaries and the distribution or other payment of cash to it in the form of dividends or otherwise. The direct and indirect subsidiaries of PBF Energy are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to make any funds available to it. As a result, if we do not declare or pay dividends you may not receive any return on an investment in our Class A common stock unless you sell our Class A common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.Anti-takeover and certain other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage or delay a change in control.Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. Among other things, these provisions:•authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval;•prohibit stockholder action by written consent now that Blackstone and First Reserve collectively cease to beneficially own at least a majority of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote;•restrict certain business combinations with stockholders who obtain beneficial ownership of a certain percentage of our outstanding common stock after the date Blackstone and First Reserve and their affiliates collectively cease to beneficially own at least 5% of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote;•provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or the board of directors, and establish advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates for election as directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; and •provide now that Blackstone and First Reserve collectively cease to beneficially own a majority of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote, our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 75% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote.These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions of Delaware law may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company. Certain provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A common stock.In addition, in connection with our initial public offering, we entered into a stockholders agreement with Blackstone and First Reserve pursuant to which they will each be entitled to nominate a number of directors so long as certain ownership thresholds are maintained.The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline.The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations due to a number of factors including: •variations in actual or anticipated operating results or dividends, if any, to stockholders;•changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates of securities analysts;•market conditions in the oil refining industry;•the impact of disruptions to crude or feedstock supply to any of our refineries, including disruptions due to problems with third party logistics infrastructure; •litigation and government investigations;•the timing and announcement of any potential acquisitions and subsequent impact of any future acquisitions on our capital structure, financial condition or results of operations; •changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations or enforcement thereof affecting our business or industry, including any lifting by the federal government of the restrictions on exporting U.S. crude oil; •general economic and stock market conditions; and•the availability for sale, or sales, of a significant number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market.In addition, the stock markets generally may experience significant volatility, often unrelated to the operating performance of the individual companies whose securities are publicly traded. These and other factors may cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decrease significantly, which in turn would adversely affect the value of your investment. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation.34If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade their recommendations regarding our Class A common stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.The trading market for our Class A common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our Class A common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our Class A common stock price may decline. If analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our Class A common stock price or trading volume to decline and our Class A common stock to be less liquid.Future sales of our shares of Class A common stock could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, including sales related to financing acquisitions, also might make it more difficult for us to sell shares of Class A common stock in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. In addition, any shares of Class A common stock that we issue, including under any equity incentive plans, would dilute the percentage ownership of the holders of our Class A common stock. We are party to a registration rights agreement with the other members of PBF LLC pursuant to which we continue to be required to register under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws the resale of the shares of Class A common stock issuable to them upon exchange of all of the PBF LLC Series A Units held by them. We currently have an effective shelf registration statement covering the resale of up to 6,310,055 shares of our Class A common stock issued or issuable to certain holders of PBF LLC Series A Units (other than Blackstone and First Reserve), which shares may be sold from time to time in the public markets, subject to the lock-up agreements described below. Our shares also may be sold under Rule 144 under the Securities Act depending on the holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.