D. Risk Factors Risks Inherent to Our Business Our future performance and ability to secure future time charters depends on continued growth in LNG production and demand for LNG and LNG shipping. Our future performance, including our ability to profitably expand our fleet, will depend on continued growth in LNG production and the demand for LNG and LNG shipping. A complete LNG project includes production, liquefaction, storage, regasification and distribution facilities, in addition to the marine transportation of LNG. Increased infrastructure investment has led to an expansion of LNG production capacity in recent years, but material delays in the construction of new liquefaction facilities could constrain the amount of LNG available for shipping, reducing ship utilization. The rate of growth of the LNG industry has fluctuated due to several factors, including the global economic crisis and continued economic uncertainty, fluctuations in global commodity prices, including natural gas, oil and coal as well as other sources of energy. Continued growth in LNG production and demand for LNG and LNG shipping could be negatively affected by a number of factors, including: • continued low prices for crude oil and petroleum products; • increases in interest rates or other events that may affect the availability of sufficient financing for LNG projects on commercially reasonable terms; • increases in the cost of natural gas derived from LNG relative to the cost of natural gas generally; • increases in the production levels of low-cost natural gas in domestic natural gas consuming markets, which could further depress prices for natural gas in those markets and make LNG uneconomical; • increases in the production of natural gas in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-natural gas pipelines to natural gas pipelines in those markets; • decreases in the consumption of natural gas due to increases in its price, decreases in the price of alternative energy sources, including coal, or other factors making consumption of natural gas less attractive; • any significant explosion, spill or other incident involving an LNG facility or carrier; • infrastructure constraints such as delays in the construction of liquefaction facilities, the inability of project owners or operators to obtain governmental approvals to construct or operate LNG facilities, as well as community or political action group resistance to new LNG infrastructure due to concerns about the environment, safety and terrorism; • labor or political unrest or military conflicts affecting existing or proposed areas of LNG production or regasification; • decreases in the price of LNG, which might decrease the expected returns relating to investments in LNG projects; • new taxes or regulations affecting LNG production or liquefaction that make LNG production less attractive; or • negative global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in LNG consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption or its growth. In 2015, global crude oil prices were very volatile and fell significantly. Such decline in oil prices since late 2014 has depressed natural gas prices and led to a narrowing of the gap in pricing in 6 different geographic regions, which has adversely affected the length of voyages in the spot LNG shipping market and the spot rates and medium term charter rates for charters which commence in the near future. A continued decline in oil prices could adversely affect both the competitiveness of gas as a fuel for power generation and the market price of gas, to the extent that gas prices are benchmarked to the price of crude oil. Some production companies have announced delays or cancellations of certain previously announced LNG projects, which, unless offset by new projects coming on stream, could adversely affect demand for LNG charters over the next few years, while the amount of tonnage available for charter is expected to increase. Unless LNG charter market conditions improve, we may have difficulty in securing charters at attractive rates and durations on our ships when we are seeking a new charter. Such a failure may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders, as well as our ability to meet certain of our debt covenants. A sustained decline in charter rates could also adversely affect the market value of our ships, on which certain of the ratios and financial covenants we are required to comply with are based. See “—Risks Related to Our Business—Our credit facilities are secured by our ships and contain payment obligations and restrictive covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities as well as our ability to pay dividends. A failure by us to meet our obligations under our credit facilities could result in an event of default under such credit facilities and foreclosure on our ships.” A continuation of the recent significant declines in natural gas and oil prices may adversely affect our growth prospects, results of operations and cash flows. Natural gas prices are volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including but not limited to the following: • price and availability of crude oil and petroleum products; • worldwide demand for natural gas and oil; • the cost of exploration, development, production, transportation and distribution of natural gas; • expectations regarding future energy prices for both natural gas and other sources of energy; • the level of worldwide LNG production and exports; • government laws and regulations, including but not limited to environmental protection laws and regulations; • local and international political, economic and weather conditions; • political and military conflicts; and • the availability and cost of alternative energy sources, including alternate sources of natural gas in gas importing and consuming countries. Natural gas prices have historically varied substantially between regions. This price disparity between producing and consuming regions supports demand for LNG shipping and any convergence of natural gas prices would adversely affect demand for LNG shipping. In 2015, global crude oil prices were very volatile and fell significantly. Such decline in oil prices since late 2014 has depressed natural gas prices and led to a narrowing of the gap in pricing in different geographic regions. Given the significant global natural gas and crude oil price decline as referenced above, a continuation of lower natural gas or oil prices or a further decline in natural gas or oil prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders, as a result of, among other things: • a reduction in exploration for or development of new natural gas reserves or projects, or the delay or cancelation of existing projects as energy companies lower their capital expenditures budgets, which may reduce our growth opportunities; 7 • low oil prices negatively affecting both the competitiveness of natural gas as a fuel for power generation and the market price of natural gas, to the extent that natural gas prices are benchmarked to the price of crude oil; • lower demand for vessels of the types we own and operate, which may reduce available charter rates and revenue to us upon redeployment of our vessels following expiration or termination of existing contracts or upon the initial chartering of vessels; • customers potentially seeking to renegotiate or terminate existing vessel contracts, or failing to extend or renew contracts upon expiration; • the inability or refusal of customers to make charter payments to us due to financial constraints or otherwise; or • declines in vessel values, which may result in losses to us upon vessel sales or impairment charges against our earnings. Our future growth depends on our ability to expand relationships with existing customers, establish relationships with new customers and obtain new time charter contracts, for which we will face substantial competition from established companies with significant resources and potential new entrants. We are seeking to enter into time charter contracts for (i) one of our newbuildings scheduled for delivery in 2018, (ii) the GasLog Chelsea, the GasLog Saratoga and the GasLog Salem, which operate in the Cool Pool, and (iii) the GasLog Skagen, which from 2016 will be on a seasonal contract (i.e., employed for seven months and available to accept other charters for five months per year). We will also seek to enter into new time charter contracts upon the expiration or early termination of our existing charter arrangements, and upon any expansion of our fleet of owned ships beyond our contracted newbuildings. One of our principal objectives is to enter into additional long-term, fixed-rate charters. In addition, we may seek to expand the customer base for our ship management services. The process of obtaining charters for LNG carriers is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening procedure and competitive bids, which often extends for several months. We believe LNG carrier time charters are awarded based upon a variety of factors relating to the ship and the ship operator, including: • size, age, technical specifications and condition of the ship; • efficiency of ship operation; • LNG shipping experience and quality of ship operations; • shipping industry relationships and reputation for customer service; • technical ability and reputation for operation of highly specialized ships; • quality and experience of officers and crew; • safety record; • the ability to finance ships at competitive rates and financial stability generally; • relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths; • construction management experience, including the ability to obtain on-time delivery of new ships according to customer specifications; and • competitiveness of the bid in terms of overall price. We expect substantial competition for providing marine transportation services for potential LNG projects from a number of experienced companies, including other independent ship owners as well as state-sponsored entities and major energy companies that own and operate LNG carriers and may compete with independent owners by using their fleets to carry LNG for third parties. Some of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources and larger fleets than we have. A number of marine transportation companies—including companies with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience—have entered the LNG transportation market in recent years, and there are other ship owners and managers who may also attempt to participate in the LNG 8 market in the future. This increased competition may cause greater price competition for time charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. Hire rates for LNG carriers may fluctuate substantially and are currently below historical average rates. If rates are lower when we are seeking a new charter, our revenues and cash flows may decline. Our ability from time to time to charter or re-charter any ship at attractive rates will depend on, among other things, the prevailing economic conditions in the LNG industry. Hire rates for LNG carriers may fluctuate over time as a result of changes in the supply-demand balance relating to current and future ship capacity. This supply-demand relationship largely depends on a number of factors outside our control. The LNG charter market is connected to world natural gas prices and energy markets, which we cannot predict. A substantial or extended decline in demand for natural gas or LNG could adversely affect our ability to charter or re-charter our ships at acceptable rates or to acquire and profitably operate new ships. Hire rates for newbuildings are correlated with the price of newbuildings. Hire rates at a time when we may be seeking new charters may be lower than the hire rates at which our ships are currently chartered. If hire rates are lower when we are seeking a new charter, or at the time option extensions are due to be declared, our revenues and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders, may decline, as we may only be able to enter into new charters at reduced or unprofitable rates or may not be able to re-charter our ship, or we may have to secure a charter in the spot market, where hire rates are more volatile. Prolonged periods of low charter hire rates or low ship utilization could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our assets. These factors, among others, have in turn led to a significant shortening of the average duration of spot charters fixed during 2015, as well as a significant decline in average rates for new spot and shorter-term LNG charters commencing promptly. Unless LNG charter market conditions improve, we may have difficulty in securing new charters at attractive rates and durations for the two vessels that could come off charter during 2016 and those vessels in the Cool Pool. Currently, we have a total of 1,191 open vessel days during the remainder of 2016, including 978 days for the three vessels operating in the Cool Pool. An oversupply of LNG carriers may lead to a reduction in the charter hire rates we are able to obtain when seeking charters in the future which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Driven in part by an increase in LNG production capacity, the market supply of LNG carriers has been increasing as a result of the construction of new ships. The development of liquefaction projects in the United States and the anticipated exports beginning in early 2016 has driven significant ordering activity. As of December 31, 2015, the LNG carrier order book totalled 145 vessels, and the delivered fleet stood at 427 vessels. We believe that this and any future expansion of the global LNG carrier fleet may have a negative impact on charter hire rates, ship utilization and ship values, which impact could be amplified if the expansion of LNG production capacity does not keep pace with fleet growth. If charter hire rates are lower when we are seeking new time charters, our revenues and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders, may decline. If an active short-term or spot LNG carrier charter market continues to develop, our revenues and cash flows may become more volatile and may decline following expiration or early termination of our current charter arrangements. Most shipping requirements for new LNG projects continue to be provided on a multi-year basis, though the level of spot voyages and short-term time charters of less than 12 months in 9 duration has grown in the past few years. If an active short-term or spot charter market continues to develop, we may enter into short-term time charters upon expiration or early termination of our current charters, for any ships for which we have not secured charters, or for any new ships we acquire beyond our contracted newbuildings. As a result, our revenues and cash flows may become more volatile. In addition, an active short-term or spot charter market may require us to enter into charters based on changing market prices, as opposed to contracts based on fixed rates, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders, if we enter into charters during periods when the market price for shipping LNG is depressed. Further technological advancements and other innovations affecting LNG carriers could reduce the charter hire rates we are able to obtain when seeking new employment, and this could adversely impact the value of our assets and our results of operations and cash flows. The charter rates, asset value and operational life of an LNG carrier are determined by a number of factors, including the ship’s efficiency, operational flexibility and physical life. Efficiency includes speed and fuel economy. Flexibility includes the ability to enter harbors, utilize related docking facilities and pass through canals and straits. Physical life is related to the original design and construction, the ongoing maintenance and the impact of operational stresses on the asset. Ship and engine designs are continually evolving. At such time as newer designs are developed and accepted in the market, these newer vessels may be found to be more efficient or more flexible or have longer physical lives than our ships. Competition from these more technologically advanced LNG carriers and the older technology of our steam-powered (“Steam”) vessels, as well as any vessels with older technology which we acquire, could adversely affect our ability to charter or re-charter our ships and the charter hire rates we will be able to secure when we seek to charter or re-charter our ships, and could also reduce the resale value of our ships. This could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. Risks associated with operating and managing ocean-going ships could affect our business and reputation. The operation and management of ocean-going ships carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: • marine disaster; • piracy; • environmental accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; • cargo and property loss or damage; • business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, disease and quarantine, or political action in various countries; and • work stoppages or other labor problems with crew members serving on our ships. An accident involving any of our owned or managed ships could result in any of the following: • death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage; • delays in the delivery of cargo; • loss of revenues from termination of charter contracts or ship management agreements; • governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business; • litigation with our employees, customers or third parties; • higher insurance rates; and • damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. 10 Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. Our insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or result from our operations which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The operation of any ship includes risks such as mechanical failure, personal injury, collision, fire, contact with floating objects, property loss or damage, cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to a number of reasons, including political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities and labor strikes. In addition, there is always an inherent possibility of a marine disaster, including explosion, spills and other environmental mishaps, and other liabilities arising from owning, operating or managing ships in international trade. Although we carry protection and indemnity, hull and machinery and loss of hire insurance covering our owned ships consistent with industry standards, we can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks or that our insurers will pay a particular claim. We also may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to obtain a timely replacement ship in the event of a loss of a ship. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to shareholders. Similarly, although we carry ship manager insurance in connection with our management of third-party ships, we can give no assurance that such insurance will adequately insure us against all risks associated with our ship management services, that our insurers will pay a particular claim or that we will be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. In addition, some of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations, and as a member of such associations we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves. The required drydocking of our ships could be more expensive and time consuming than we anticipate, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Drydockings of our owned ships require significant capital expenditures and result in loss of revenue while our ships are off-hire. Any significant increase in either the number of off-hire days due to such drydockings or in the costs of any repairs carried out during the drydockings could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and our cash flows. We may not be able to accurately predict the time required to drydock any of our ships or any unanticipated problems that may arise. If more than one of our ships is required to be out of service at the same time, or if a ship is drydocked longer than expected or if the cost of repairs during the drydocking is greater than budgeted, our results of operations and our cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders, could be adversely affected. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the drydockings of the GasLog Savannah, the GasLog Singapore, the GasLog Chelsea, the Methane Alison Victoria, the Methane Shirley Elizabeth, the Methane Heather Sally, the Methane Becki Anne and the Methane Julia Louise were completed. The drydockings of the remainder of our vessels are expected to be carried out in 2016 (two vessels) and 2018 (five vessels), respectively. Changes in global and regional economic conditions could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Weak global or regional economic conditions may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders in ways that we cannot predict. Our ability to expand our fleet beyond our contracted newbuildings will be dependent on our ability to obtain financing to fund the acquisition of additional ships. In addition, uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause our customers to defer projects in response to tighter credit, decreased capital availability and 11 declining customer confidence, which may negatively impact the demand for our ships and services and could also result in defaults under our current charters or termination of our ship management contracts. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been volatile in recent years and remain subject to significant vulnerabilities. In particular, despite recent measures taken by the European Union, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries, including Greece, and their ability to meet future financial obligations, and the overall stability of the euro. Furthermore, a tightening of the credit markets may further negatively impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our suppliers or customers which could lead to disruptions in delivery of supplies such as equipment for conversions, cost increases for supplies, accelerated payments to suppliers, customer bad debts or reduced revenues. Similarly, such market conditions could affect lenders participating in our financing agreements, making them unable to fulfill their commitments and obligations to us. Any reductions in activity owing to such conditions or failure by our customers, suppliers or lenders to meet their contractual obligations to us could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. GasLog LNG Services, our vessels’ management company, and a substantial number of its staff are located in Greece. The current economic instability in Greece could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our business. We have sought to minimize this risk and preserve operational stability by carefully developing staff deployment plans, an information technology recovery site, an alternative ship to shore communications plan and funding mechanisms. While we believe these plans, combined with the international nature of our operations, will mitigate the impact of any disruption of operations in Greece, we cannot assure you that these plans will be effective in all circumstances. Disruptions in world financial markets could limit our ability to obtain future debt financing or refinance existing debt. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been disrupted and volatile in recent years. Credit markets as well as the debt and equity capital markets were exceedingly distressed and at certain times in recent years it was difficult to obtain financing and the cost of any available financing increased significantly. If global financial markets and economic conditions significantly deteriorate in the future, we may experience difficulties obtaining financing commitments, including commitments to refinance our existing debt as substantial balloon payments come due under our credit facilities, in the future if lenders are unwilling to extend financing to us or unable to meet their funding obligations due to their own liquidity, capital or solvency issues. As a result, financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our future obligations as they come due. Our failure to obtain the funds for these capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. In the absence of available financing, we also may be unable to take advantage of further business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Compliance with safety and other requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business. The hull and machinery of every commercial LNG carrier must be classed by a classification society. The classification society certifies that the ship has been built and subsequently maintained in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of that classification society. Moreover, every ship must comply with all applicable international conventions and the regulations of the ship’s flag state as verified by a classification society. Finally, each ship must successfully undergo periodic surveys, including annual, intermediate and special surveys performed under the classification society’s rules. If any ship does not maintain its class, it will lose its insurance coverage and be unable to trade, and the ship’s owner will be in breach of relevant covenants under its financing arrangements. Failure to maintain the class of one or more of our ships could have a material adverse effect on 12 our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. The LNG shipping industry is subject to substantial environmental and other regulations, which may significantly limit our operations or increase our expenses. Our operations are materially affected by extensive and changing international, national, state and local environmental laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards which are in force in international waters, or in the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which our ships operate and in the countries in which our ships are registered. These requirements include those relating to equipping and operating ships, providing security and minimizing or addressing impacts on the environment from ship operations. We may incur substantial costs in complying with these requirements, including costs for ship modifications and changes in operating procedures. We also could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, civil and criminal penalties and sanctions, the suspension or termination of operations and third-party claims as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, such laws and regulations. In addition, these requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of our ships, require a reduction in cargo capacity, necessitate ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions or lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters. They could further result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports or detention in certain ports. We are required to obtain governmental approvals and permits to operate our ships. Delays in obtaining such governmental approvals may increase our expenses, and the terms and conditions of such approvals could materially and adversely affect our operations. Additional laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or increase our operating costs, which could materially and adversely affect our business. For example, new or amended legislation relating to ship recycling, sewage systems, emission control (including emissions of greenhouse gases) as well as ballast water treatment and ballast water handling may be adopted. The United States has recently enacted ballast water management system legislation and regulations that require more stringent controls of air and water emissions from ocean-going ships. Such legislation or regulations may require additional capital expenditures or operating expenses (such as increased costs for low-sulfur fuel) in order for us to maintain our ships’ compliance with international and/or national regulations. We also may become subject to additional laws and regulations if we enter new markets or trades. We also believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will generally lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements, as well as greater inspection and safety requirements on all LNG carriers in the marine transportation market. These requirements are likely to add incremental costs to our operations, and the failure to comply with these requirements may affect the ability of our ships to obtain and, possibly, recover from, insurance or to obtain the required certificates for entry into the different ports where we operate. Some environmental laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or “OPA”, provide for potentially unlimited joint, several and/or strict liability for owners, operators and demise or bareboat charterers for oil pollution and related damages. OPA applies to discharges of any oil from a ship in U.S. waters, including discharges of fuel and lubricants from an LNG carrier, even if the ships do not carry oil as cargo. In addition, many states in the United States bordering a navigable waterway have enacted legislation providing for potentially unlimited strict liability without regard to fault for the discharge of pollutants within their waters. We also are subject to other laws and conventions outside the United States that provide for an owner or operator of LNG carriers to bear strict liability for pollution, such as the Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims of 1976, or the “London Convention”. Some of these laws and conventions, including OPA and the London Convention, may include limitations on liability. However, the limitations may not be applicable in certain circumstances, such as where a spill is caused by a ship owner’s or operator’s intentional or reckless conduct. These limitations are also subject to periodic updates and may otherwise be amended in the future. 13 Compliance with OPA and other environmental laws and regulations also may result in ship owners and operators incurring increased costs for additional maintenance and inspection requirements, the development of contingency arrangements for potential spills, obtaining mandated insurance coverage and meeting financial responsibility requirements. Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets. Due to concern over the risks of climate change, a number of countries and the International Maritime Organization, or “IMO”, have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emission from ships. These regulatory measures may include adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Although emissions of greenhouse gases from international shipping currently are not subject to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, or the “Kyoto Protocol”, or any amendments or successor agreements, a new treaty may be adopted in the future that includes additional restrictions on shipping emissions to those already adopted under the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution from Ships, or the “MARPOL Convention”. Compliance with future changes in laws and regulations relating to climate change could increase the costs of operating and maintaining our ships and could require us to install new emission controls, as well as acquire allowances, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities may also be adversely affected. Adverse effects upon the oil and gas industry relating to climate change, including growing public concern about the environmental impact of climate change, may also have an effect on demand for our services. For example, increased regulation of greenhouse gases or other concerns relating to climate change may reduce the demand for oil and natural gas in the future or create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry could have significant financial and operational adverse impacts on our business that we cannot predict with certainty at this time. We operate our ships worldwide, which could expose us to political, governmental and economic instability that could harm our business. Because we operate our ships in the geographic areas where our customers do business, our operations may be affected by political, governmental and economic conditions in the countries where our ships operate or where they are registered. Any disruption caused by these factors could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. In particular, our ships frequent LNG terminals in countries including Egypt, Equatorial Guinea and Trinidad as well as transit through the Gulf of Aden and the Strait of Malacca. Economic, political and governmental conditions in these and other regions have from time to time resulted in military conflicts, terrorism, attacks on ships, mining of waterways, piracy and other efforts to disrupt shipping. Future hostilities or other political instability in the geographic regions where we operate or may operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. In addition, our business could also be harmed by tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by the United States or other countries against countries in the Middle East, Southeast Asia or elsewhere as a result of terrorist attacks, hostilities or diplomatic or political pressures that limit trading activities with those countries. Terrorist attacks, international hostilities and piracy could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Terrorist attacks, piracy and the current conflicts in the Middle East, and other current and future conflicts, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. The continuing hostilities in the Middle East may lead to additional acts of terrorism, further regional conflicts, other armed actions around the world and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may contribute to 14 further instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on ships, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected ships trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden. Since 2008, the frequency of piracy incidents against commercial shipping vessels has increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden and off the coast of Somalia. Any terrorist attacks targeted at ships may in the future negatively materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders and could directly impact our ships or our customers. We currently employ armed guards onboard certain vessels operating in areas that may be prone to hijacking or terrorist attacks. The presence of armed guards may increase the risk of damage, injury or loss of life in connection with any attacks on our vessels, in addition to increasing crew costs. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from acts of terrorism, piracy, regional conflicts and other armed actions, including losses relating to the employment of armed guards. LNG facilities, shipyards, ships, pipelines and gas fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks or piracy. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, as well as damage to the ships or other property, increased ship operating costs, including insurance costs, reductions in the supply of LNG and the inability to transport LNG to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the production, storage or transportation of LNG to be shipped by us could entitle our customers to terminate our charter contracts in certain circumstances, which would harm our cash flows and our business. Terrorist attacks, or the perception that LNG facilities and LNG carriers are potential terrorist targets, could materially and adversely affect expansion of LNG infrastructure and the continued supply of LNG. Concern that LNG facilities may be targeted for attack by terrorists has contributed significantly to local community and environmental group resistance to the construction of a number of LNG facilities, primarily in North America. If a terrorist incident involving an LNG facility or LNG carrier did occur, in addition to the possible effects identified in the previous paragraph, the incident may adversely affect the construction of additional LNG facilities and could lead to the temporary or permanent closing of various LNG facilities currently in operation. A cyber-attack could materially disrupt GasLog’s business. GasLog’s business operations could be targeted by individuals or groups seeking to sabotage or disrupt GasLog’s information technology systems and networks, or to steal data. A successful cyber-attack could materially disrupt GasLog’s operations, including the safety of its operations, or lead to unauthorized release of information or alteration of information on its systems. Any such attack or other breach of GasLog’s information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on GasLog’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. In the future, the ships we own or manage could be required to call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the United States and other governments. The United States and other governments and their agencies impose sanctions and embargoes on certain countries and maintain lists of countries they consider to be state sponsors of terrorism. For example, in 2010, the United States enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, or “CISADA”, which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expanded the application of the prohibitions imposed by the U.S. government to non-U.S. companies, such as us, and limits the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products, as well as LNG. 15 In 2012, President Obama signed Executive Order 13608, which prohibits foreign persons from violating or attempting to violate, or causing a violation of, any sanctions in effect against Iran, or facilitating any deceptive transactions for or on behalf of any person subject to U.S. sanctions. The Secretary of the Treasury may prohibit any transactions or dealings, including any U.S. capital markets financing, involving any person found to be in violation of Executive Order 13608. Also in 2012, the U.S. enacted the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, or the “ITRA”, which created new sanctions and strengthened existing sanctions. Among other things, the ITRA intensifies existing sanctions regarding the provision of goods, services, infrastructure or technology to Iran’s petroleum or petrochemical sector. The ITRA also includes a provision requiring the President of the United States to impose five or more sanctions from Section 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, on a person the President determines is a controlling beneficial owner of, or otherwise owns, operates, or controls or insures a vessel that was used to transport crude oil from Iran to another country and (1) if the person is a controlling beneficial owner of the vessel, the person had actual knowledge the vessel was so used or (2) if the person otherwise owns, operates, or controls, or insures the vessel, the person knew or should have known the vessel was so used. Such a person could be subject to a variety of sanctions, including exclusion from U.S. capital markets, exclusion from financial transactions subject to U.S. jurisdiction, and exclusion of such person’s vessels from U.S. ports for up to two years. The ITRA also includes a requirement that issuers of securities must disclose to the SEC in their annual and quarterly reports filed after February 6, 2013 whether the issuer or “any affiliate” has “knowingly” engaged in certain sanctioned activities involving Iran during the timeframe covered by the report. Finally, in January 2013, the U.S. enacted the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 or the “IFCA”, which expanded the scope of U.S. sanctions on any person that is part of Iran’s energy, shipping or shipbuilding sector and operators of ports in Iran, and imposes penalties on any person who facilitates or otherwise knowingly provides significant financial, material or other support to these entities. On January 16, 2016, the United States suspended certain sanctions against Iran applicable to non-U.S. companies, such as us, pursuant to the nuclear agreement reached between Iran, China, France, Germany, Russia, the United Kingdom, the United States and the European Union. To implement these changes, beginning on January 16, 2016, the United States waived enforcement of many of the sanctions against Iran’s energy and petrochemical sectors described above, among other things, including certain provisions of CISADA, ITRA, and IFCA. While non-U.S. companies may now engage in certain business or trade with Iran that was previously prohibited, the U.S. has the ability to reimpose sanctions against Iran if, in the future, Iran does not comply with its obligations under the nuclear agreement. Although the ships we own and those we manage have not called on ports in countries subject to sanctions or embargoes or in countries identified as state sponsors of terrorism, including Iran, North Korea and Syria, we cannot assure you that these ships will not call on ports in these countries in the future. While we intend to maintain compliance with all sanctions and embargoes applicable to us, U.S. and international sanctions and embargo laws and regulations do not necessarily apply to the same countries or proscribe the same activities, which may make compliance difficult. Additionally, the scope of certain laws may be unclear, and these laws may be subject to changing interpretations and application and may be amended or strengthened from time to time, including by adding or removing countries from the proscribed lists. Violations of sanctions and embargo laws and regulations could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their investment, or not to invest, in us. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and other anti-bribery legislation in other jurisdictions could result in fines, criminal penalties, contract terminations and an adverse effect on our business. We operate our ships worldwide, requiring our ships to trade in countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics which is consistent and in full compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, or the “FCPA”, and the 16 Bribery Act 2010 of the United Kingdom or the “UK Bribery Act”. We are subject, however, to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take actions determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA and the UK Bribery Act. Any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, or curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. Reliability of suppliers may limit our ability to obtain supplies and services when needed. We rely, and will in the future rely, on a significant supply of consumables, spare parts and equipment to operate, maintain, repair and upgrade our fleet of ships. Delays in delivery or unavailability of supplies could result in off-hire days due to consequent delays in the repair and maintenance of our fleet. This would negatively impact our revenues and cash flows. Cost increases could also negatively impact our future operations, although the impact of significant cost increases may be mitigated to some extent with respect to the vessels that are employed under charter contracts with automatic periodic adjustment provisions or cost review provisions. Governments could requisition our ships during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. The government of a jurisdiction where one or more of our ships are registered could requisition for title or seize our ships. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a ship and becomes its owner. Also, a government could requisition our ships for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a ship and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition ships in other circumstances. Although we would expect to be entitled to government compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our ships, the amount and timing of payments, if any, would be uncertain. A government requisition of one or more of our ships would result in off-hire days under our time charters and may cause us to breach covenants in certain of our credit facilities, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. Maritime claimants could arrest our ships, which could interrupt our cash flows. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a ship, shippers or receivers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a ship for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a ship. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our ships which is not timely discharged could cause us to default on a charter or breach covenants in certain of our credit facilities and, to the extent such arrest or attachment is not covered by our protection and indemnity insurance, could require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. Additionally, in some jurisdictions, such as the Republic of South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the ship that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” ship, which is any ship owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one ship in our fleet for claims relating to another of our ships. 17 We may be subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect on us. We may in the future be involved from time to time in litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, toxic tort claims, employment matters and governmental claims for taxes or duties, as well as other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of any claim or other litigation matter. The ultimate outcome of any litigation matter and the potential costs associated with prosecuting or defending such lawsuits, including the diversion of management’s attention to these matters, could have an adverse effect on us and, in the event of litigation that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on us, could lead to an event of default under certain of our credit facilities. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Any limitation in the availability or operation of our ships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our owned fleet consists of 18 LNG carriers that are in operation (including the eight LNG carriers owned by GasLog Partners) and eight newbuildings on order. If any of our vessels is unable to generate revenues for any significant period of time for any reason, including unexpected periods of off- hire, early charter termination (which could result from damage to our vessels) or failure to secure employment for any vessels for which we have not secured charters, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders, could be materially and adversely affected. The impact of any limitation in the operation of our vessels or any early charter termination would be amplified during the period prior to delivery of our newbuildings, as a substantial portion of our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our 18 LNG carriers in operation. In addition, the costs of vessel repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. In the event of repair costs that are not covered by our insurance policies, we may have to pay for such repair costs, which would decrease our earnings and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. We depend upon one customer for nearly all of our revenues. The loss of this customer would result in a significant loss of revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have historically derived nearly all of our revenues from one customer, MSL, a subsidiary of BG Group, which was acquired by our other customer, Shell on February 15, 2016. For the year ended December 31, 2015, MSL and Shell accounted for 83.14% and 11.76% of our revenues, respectively. Following the delivery of our eight new LNG carriers on order, MSL will continue to be a key customer, as seven of our newbuildings will be chartered to MSL upon delivery for a total of 21 vessels chartered to MSL. Although MSL’s contractual obligations under the charter agreements are not impacted by the acquisition, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain the same business relationship previously enjoyed with BG Group following its acquisition by Shell or BG Group. In addition, the acquisition by Shell has increased our customer concentration because all of our vessels are now chartered to subsidiaries of Shell. Furthermore, we could lose a customer or the benefits of our time charter or ship management arrangements for many different reasons, including if the customer is unable or unwilling to make charter hire or other payments to us because of a deterioration in its financial condition, disagreements with us or otherwise. If our customer terminates its charters, chooses not to re-charter our ships after the initial charter terms or is unable to perform under its charters and we are not able to find replacement charters on similar terms, we will suffer a loss of revenues that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. Our revenues would also be impacted if MSL terminates or is unable to perform under our ship management contracts. 18 Any charter termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our charterers have the right to terminate a ship’s time charter in certain circumstances, such as: • loss of the ship or damage to it beyond repair; • if the ship is off-hire for any reason other than scheduled drydocking for a period exceeding 90 consecutive days, or for more than 90 days or 110 days, depending on the charter, in any one-year period; • defaults by us in our obligations under the charter; or • the outbreak of war or hostilities involving two or more major nations, such as the United States or the People’s Republic of China, that would materially and adversely affect the trading of the ship for a period of at least 30 days. A termination right under one ship’s time charter would not automatically give the charterer the right to terminate its other charter contracts with us. However, a charter termination could materially affect our relationship with the customer and our reputation in the LNG shipping industry, and in some circumstances the event giving rise to the termination right could potentially impact multiple charters. Accordingly, the existence of any right of termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. If we lose a charter, we may be unable to obtain a new time charter on terms as favorable to us or with a charterer of comparable standing, particularly if we are seeking new time charters at a time when charter rates in the LNG industry are depressed. Consequently, we may have an increased exposure to the volatile spot market, which is highly competitive and subject to significant price fluctuations. In the event that we are unable to re-deploy a ship for which a charter has been terminated, we will not receive any revenues from that ship, and we may be required to pay expenses necessary to maintain the ship in proper operating condition. In addition, in the event of a charter termination we could be required under certain of our credit facilities to deposit cash in an account held with the applicable lender until we have obtained a new time charter on terms acceptable to such lender, or under some other of our credit facilities repay the outstanding loan amount, which could restrict our cash available for dividends to our shareholders. Our ship management agreements may be terminated with limited advance notice. Unlike our time charters, our ship management agreements with MSL and Egypt LNG may be terminated at any time by either party with a short period of advance notice. In the event that a ship management agreement is terminated by MSL other than in connection with the sale of a ship, MSL would generally be entitled to immediately terminate the ship management agreements for the other ships we manage on its behalf. If a customer were to terminate our ship management agreements, we may be unable to find new customers for our ship management services or we may choose not to continue providing ship management services to third-party customers, which could adversely impact our revenues and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. Due to our lack of diversification, adverse developments in the LNG transportation industry could adversely affect our business, particularly if such developments occur at a time when we are seeking a new charter. We rely exclusively on cash flow generated from charters for our LNG vessels and management of our and third party LNG vessels. Due to our lack of diversification, an adverse development in the LNG transportation industry could have a significantly greater impact on our business, particularly if such developments occur at a time when our ships are not under charter or nearing the end of their charters, than if we maintained more diverse assets or lines of businesses. 19 Our contracts for the eight newbuildings we have on order are subject to risks that could cause delays in the delivery of the ships, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our eight contracted newbuildings are scheduled to be delivered to us on various dates between 2016 and 2019. Significant delays in the delivery of one or more of these ships, which are expected to generate a substantial portion of our contracted revenue in future years, would delay our receipt of revenues under the related time charters. For prolonged delays, the customer may terminate the charter and, in addition to the resulting loss of revenues, we may be responsible for additional substantial liquidated damages, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. In addition, the delivery of any of these ships with substantial defects or unexpected operational problems could have similar consequences. The completion of newbuildings could be delayed because of: • shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; • delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel, or equipment, such as engines or generators; • failure of equipment to meet quality and/or performance standards; • the shipyards over-committing to new ships to be constructed; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; • political or economic disturbances; • financial or operating difficulties experienced by equipment vendors or the shipyards; • requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; • inability to obtain required permits or approvals; • disputes with the shipyards; • inability to finance the construction or conversion of the vessels; • work stoppages and other labor disputes; and • adverse weather conditions or any other events of force majeure, including war or hostilities between South Korea, where we have ships on order at Samsung and Hyundai, and North Korea. If delivery of a vessel is materially delayed, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. As we take delivery of our newbuildings or any secondhand ships we acquire in the future, we will need to expand our staff and crew. If we cannot recruit and retain employees and provide adequate compensation, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Our ability to acquire and retain customers depends on a number of factors, including our ability to man our vessels with masters, officers and crews of suitable experience in operating LNG carriers. As we take delivery of our newbuildings or any secondhand ships we acquire in the future, we expect to hire a significant number of seafarers qualified to man and operate our new vessels, as well as additional shoreside personnel. As the global LNG carrier fleet continues to grow, we expect the demand for technically skilled and experienced officers and crew to increase. This could lead to an industry- wide shortfall of qualified personnel, resulting in increased crew costs, which could constrain our ability to recruit suitable employees to operate our LNG carriers within our budget parameters. Material increases in crew costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. In addition, if we cannot recruit and retain sufficient numbers of quality on-board seafaring personnel, we may 20 not be able to fully utilize our expanded fleet, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. We must make substantial capital expenditures to acquire the eight newbuildings we have on order and any additional ships we may acquire in the future. We are obligated to make substantial capital expenditures to fund our commitments for the eight newbuildings we have on order. We are scheduled to take delivery of the vessels on various dates between 2016 and 2019. As of December 31, 2015, the total remaining balance of the contract prices for the eight vessels was $1.45 billion, which amounts are payable under each shipbuilding contract in installments upon the attainment of certain specified milestones. The largest portion of the purchase price for each vessel will come due upon its delivery to us from the shipyard. We intend to fund these commitments with the $1,311.3 million under the financing agreement we entered into on October 16, 2015, available cash and cash from operations. To the extent that we are unable to draw down the amounts committed under our credit facilities, whether due to our failure to comply with the terms of such facilities or the lenders’ failure to fund the committed amounts, we will need to find alternative financing. If we are unable to find alternative financing, we will not be capable of funding all of our commitments for capital expenditures relating to our eight contracted newbuildings. In the event that we fail to meet our payment obligations under a shipbuilding contract, we would be in default under the applicable contract and the shipbuilder would have the option of cancelling the contract and retaining any previously funded installment payments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. In addition, we may choose to make substantial capital expenditures to expand the size of our fleet in the future. In order to exercise our options with Samsung to purchase up to six additional newbuildings, we would need to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us. We expect to finance the cost of any new vessels through available cash, cash from operations and debt or equity financings. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions, changes in the LNG industry and further contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, the terms of any debt financings could limit our ability to further expand our fleet and to pay dividends to our shareholders. We may have difficulty further expanding our fleet in the future. We may expand our fleet beyond our contracted newbuildings by ordering additional newbuildings or by making selective acquisitions of high-quality secondhand vessels to the extent that they are available in the same way that we acquired the GasLog Chelsea and the eight vessels acquired from MSL in 2014 and 2015. Our future growth will depend on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including our ability to: • identify attractive ship acquisition opportunities and consummate such acquisitions; • obtain newbuilding contracts at acceptable prices; • obtain required equity and debt financing on acceptable terms; • secure charter arrangements on terms acceptable to our lenders; • expand our relationships with existing customers and establish new customer relationships; • recruit and retain additional suitably qualified and experienced seafarers and shore-based employees; • continue to meet technical and safety performance standards; • manage joint ventures; and 21 • manage the expansion of our operations to integrate the new ships into our fleet. We may not be successful in executing any future growth plans, and we cannot give any assurances that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with such growth efforts. Our credit facilities are secured by our ships and contain payment obligations and restrictive covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities as well as our ability to pay dividends. A failure by us to meet our obligations under our credit facilities could result in an event of default under such credit facilities and foreclosure on our ships. Our credit facilities impose, and any future credit facility we enter into will impose, operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. These restrictions in our credit facilities generally limit our shipowning subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness, create liens or provide guarantees; • provide any form of credit or financial assistance to, or enter into any non-arms’ length transactions with, us or any of our affiliates; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including our ships; • engage in merger transactions; • enter into, terminate or amend any charter; • amend our shipbuilding contracts; • change the manager of our ships; • undergo a change in ownership; or • acquire assets, make investments or enter into any joint venture arrangements outside of the ordinary course of business. Our credit facilities also impose certain restrictions relating to us and our other subsidiaries, including restrictions that limit our ability to make any substantial change in the nature of our business or to engage in transactions that would constitute a change of control, as defined in the relevant credit facility, without repaying all of our indebtedness in full, or to allow our largest shareholders to reduce their shareholding in us below specified thresholds. Our credit facilities also impose specified financial covenants that apply to us and our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis or, in the case of the GasLog Partners’ $450.0 million credit facility, or the “GasLog Partners Credit Facility”, to GasLog Partners and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. These financial covenants generally include the following: • net working capital (excluding the current portion of long-term debt) must be not less than $0 (not included in the GasLog Partners Credit Facility); • total indebtedness divided by our total assets must not exceed 75.0% (in the case of the GasLog Partners Credit Facility, must be less than 60.0%); • the ratio of EBITDA over our debt service obligations (including interest and debt repayments) on a trailing 12 months basis must be not less than 110.0%; • the aggregate amount of all unencumbered cash and cash equivalents must be not less than the higher of 3.0% of total indebtedness and $20.0 million ($15.0 million under the GasLog Partners Credit Facility and $50.0 million under the credit facility provided under the facilities agreement dated October 16, 2015 (the “October 2015 Facility”) and the credit facility provided under the credit agreement entered into on February 18, 2016 to refinance the existing indebtedness on five of our contracted vessels of up to $576.50 million (the “Five Vessel Refinancing”)) after the first drawdown; • being permitted to pay dividends, provided that unencumbered cash and cash equivalents equal to at least 4.0% of total indebtedness, subject to no event of default having occurred or occurring as a consequence of the payment of such dividends (in the case of the GasLog 22 Partners Credit Facility, permitted to pay dividends subject to no event of default having occurred or resulting from such payment); and • market value adjusted net worth must be not less than $350.0 million (not included in the GasLog Partners Credit Facility). In addition, our credit facilities contain covenants requiring us and certain of our subsidiaries to maintain the aggregate of (i) the market value, on a charter exclusive basis, of the mortgaged vessel or vessels and (ii) the market value of any additional security provided to the lenders, not less than 120.0% (in the case of the October 2015 Facility, 115.0% for the first two years after each drawdown and 120.0% at any time thereafter and in the case of the Five Vessel Refinancing, 115.0% until the maturity of the junior tranche and 120.0% at any time thereafter) of the then outstanding amount under the applicable facility and any related swap exposure. If we fail to comply with these covenants and are not able to obtain covenant waivers or modifications, our lenders could require us to make prepayments or provide additional collateral sufficient to bring us into compliance with such covenants, and if we fail to do so our lenders could accelerate our indebtedness. Further, under the NOK denominated bond agreement signed on June 25, 2013, between GasLog Ltd. and the bond trustee, as amended, or the “Bond Agreement”, for our Bond we are required to comply with the following financial covenants: • our total indebtedness divided by our total assets must not exceed 75.0%; • the ratio of EBITDA over our debt service obligations (including interest and debt repayments) on a trailing 12 months basis must be not less than 115.0%; • the aggregate amount of all unencumbered cash and cash equivalents must be not less than the higher of 3.0% of our total indebtedness and $20.0 million after the first drawdown; and • our market value adjusted net worth must at all times be not less than $350.0 million. The Bond Agreement also includes a dividend restriction according to which we may not (i) declare or make any dividend payment or distribution, whether in cash or in kind, (ii) repurchase any of our shares or undertake other similar transactions (including, but not limited to, total return swaps related to our shares), or (iii) grant any loans or make other distributions or transactions constituting a transfer of value to our shareholders (items (i), (ii) and (iii) collectively referred to as the “Distributions”) that in aggregate exceed during any calendar year 50.0% of our consolidated net profit after taxes based on the audited annual accounts for the previous financial year (any unutilized portion of the permitted dividend pursuant to the above may not be carried forward). Notwithstanding the above, we are permitted to make Distributions up to an aggregate maximum per share, for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018 of $1.10/share, $1.20/share and $1.30/share, respectively, provided that total indebtedness divided by total assets (giving pro forma effect for the distribution) does not exceed 67.5% immediately after the Distribution is made, the ratio of EBITDA over debt service obligations on a trailing 12 months basis ending the quarter immediately prior to that in which the Distribution is made is not less than 115.0% and no event of default would result from such distribution. The Bond Agreement also prohibits GasLog from providing any debt or committed debt availability to GasLog Partners in excess of $75.0 million. Certain of our credit facilities also contain vessel employment conditions, pursuant to which we could be required in the event of a charter termination or in certain other circumstances to deposit cash in an account held with the applicable lender until we have obtained a new time charter on terms acceptable to such lender, or under certain of our credit facilities repay the outstanding loan amount. As of December 31, 2015, in connection with the delivery of the GasLog Saratoga and the GasLog Salem, $21.0 million per vessel has been deposited in a blocked account which amount is presented under restricted cash because the spot charters that these vessels enter into from time to time are not considered approved charters by the lenders. In addition, as of December 31, 2015, $20.0 million and $0.7 million has been presented under restricted cash pursuant to the credit facilities used to finance the GasLog Savannah and the GasLog Singapore. This requirement was triggered (a) for GasLog Savannah because the vessel’s new charter party is not considered an approved charter by the lenders and (b) for GasLog Singapore because the vessel’s charterer has not 23 exercised its option to extend its time charter within 12 months of the charter’s scheduled termination date. On February 25, 2016, a supplemental deed was signed with the lenders of the GAS-eight Ltd., GAS-nine Ltd. and GAS-ten Ltd. loan facility, permitting GasLog to withdraw the $21.0 million maintained in blocked accounts for each of GAS-nine Ltd. and GAS-ten Ltd., the entities which own the GasLog Saratoga and the GasLog Salem, respectively, provided GasLog has provided an executed guarantee or letter of credit with a minimum duration of six months. In connection to this, on February 26, 2016, GasLog entered into two bank guarantees, issued by BNP Paribas S.A. for GAS-nine Ltd. and GAS-ten Ltd. of $21.0 million each. The bank guarantees bear interest at a margin and are available for a period of up to two years. Consequently, $42.0 million was reclassified from restricted cash to cash and cash equivalents. Our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in our financing arrangements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. A failure to comply with covenants and restrictions or to meet our payment and other obligations could lead to defaults under our credit facilities which could cause our payment obligations to be accelerated. We may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Because obligations under our financing arrangements are secured by our ships and are guaranteed by our ship-owning subsidiaries, if we are unable to repay debt under our financing arrangements, the lenders could seek to foreclose on those assets, which would materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. In addition, a default under one of our credit facilities could result in the cross-acceleration of our other indebtedness. For more information regarding our credit facilities, please read “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Facilities”. The significant global natural gas and crude oil price decline, amongst other factors referenced above, have in turn led to a significant shortening of the average duration of spot charters fixed during 2015, as well as a significant decline in average rates for new spot and shorter-term LNG charters commencing promptly. Over the next 18 months, unless LNG charter market conditions improve, we may have difficulty in securing new charters at attractive rates and durations for the two vessels that could come off charter during 2016. Currently, we have a total of 1,191 open vessel days during the remainder of 2016, including 978 days for the three vessels operating in the Cool Pool. A failure to obtain charters at acceptable rates on these vessels could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders, as well as our ability to meet certain of our debt covenants later in 2016, particularly the required ratio of EBITDA to debt service and the minimum cash requirement. Ship values may fluctuate substantially, which could result in an impairment charge, could impact our compliance with the covenants in our loan agreements and, if the values are lower at a time when we are attempting to dispose of ships, could cause us to incur a loss. Values for ships can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: • prevailing economic conditions in the natural gas and energy markets; • a substantial or extended decline in demand for LNG; • the level of worldwide LNG production and exports; • changes in the supply-demand balance of the global LNG carrier fleet; • changes in prevailing charter hire rates; • the physical condition of the ship; • the size, age and technical specifications of the ship; • demand for LNG carriers; and 24 • the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing ships, as a result of technological advances in ship design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards, customer requirements or otherwise. If the market value of our ships declines, we may be required to record an impairment charge in our financial statements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects -B. Liquidity and Capital Resourced—Critical Accounting Policies—Impairment of Vessels”. In addition, any such deterioration in market value of our ships may trigger a breach of some of the covenants contained in our credit facilities. If we do breach such covenants and we are unable to remedy the relevant breach, our lenders could accelerate our indebtedness and seek to foreclose on the ships in our fleet securing those credit facilities. In addition, if a charter contract expires or is terminated by the customer, we may be unable to re-deploy the affected ships at attractive rates and, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance them, we may seek to dispose of them. Any foreclosure on our ships, or any disposal by us of a ship at a time when ship prices have fallen, could result in a loss and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing, pursuing other business opportunities and paying dividends to our shareholders. As of December 31, 2015, we had an aggregate of $2.29 billion of indebtedness outstanding under eleven credit agreements, of which $645.19 million is repayable within one year which includes $42.17 million under the revolving credit facility, and we had $113.74 million outstanding under the Bond which amount is payable in June 2018. As of December 31, 2015 there is an undrawn amount of $7.83 million from the revolving facility of GAS-two Ltd. from which the balance is available to be drawn under certain conditions. In addition, there is one loan facility with an aggregate undrawn amount of $1.3 billion available that will be used to finance a portion of the contract price of eight of our newbuildings on their delivery. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future as we grow our fleet. This level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, ship acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • our costs of borrowing could increase as we become more leveraged; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and dividends to our shareholders; • our debt level may make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our industry or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt depends upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. 25 Our ability to obtain additional debt financing for future acquisitions of ships or to refinance our existing debt may depend on the creditworthiness of our charterers and the terms of our future charters. Our ability to borrow against the ships in our existing fleet and any ships we may acquire in the future largely depends on the value of the ships, which in turn depends in part on charter hire rates and the ability of our charterers to comply with the terms of their charters. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional ships and to refinance our existing debt as balloon payments come due, or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing or committing to financing on unattractive terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. Our ability to pay dividends or to redeem our Preference Shares may be limited by the amount of cash we generate from operations, by restrictions in our credit facilities and by additional factors unrelated to our profitability. We intend to pay regular quarterly dividends. The declaration and payment of any dividend (including cumulative dividends payable with respect to our Preference Shares) is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and the requirements of Bermuda law. The timing and amount of any dividend or redemption payments will be dependent on our earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and availability, restrictions in our debt agreements, the provisions of Bermuda law and other factors. The amount of cash we generate from operations and the actual amount of cash we will have available for dividends or redeem our Preference Shares will vary based upon, among other things: • general LNG shipping market conditions and trends, including charter rates, ship values, factors affecting supply and demand, technological advancements and opportunities for the profitable operations of LNG carriers; • our ability to comply with the specified financial covenants in our loan facilities and the Bond and as corporate guarantor for certain loan facilities on a consolidated basis; • our ability to obtain new charters for our vessels at favourable rates; • the charter hire payments we obtain from our charters as well as our ability to re-charter the vessels and the rates obtained upon the expiration of our existing charters; • our fleet expansion and associated uses of our cash as well as any financing requirements; • the due performance by our charterers of their obligations; • delays in the delivery of newbuild vessels and the beginning of payments under charters relating to those vessels; • the level of our operating costs, such as the costs of crews, lubricants and insurance, as well as the costs of repairs, maintenance or modifications of our ships; • the number of unscheduled off-hire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for, scheduled drydocking of our ships; • our ability to obtain financing to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate activities, funding by banks of their financial commitments, and our ability to meet our obligations under our credit facilities; • prevailing global and regional economic or political conditions; • changes in interest rates; • the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business; • changes in the basis of taxation of our activities in various jurisdictions; • modification or revocation of our dividend policy by our board of directors; and 26 • the amount of any cash reserves established by our board of directors. For information regarding the dividend payment restrictions in our financing agreements, see “—Risks Related to Our Business—Our credit facilities are secured by our ships and contain payment obligations and restrictive covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities as well as our ability to pay dividends. A failure by us to meet our obligations under our credit facilities could result in an event of default under such credit facilities and foreclosure on our ships.” The amount of cash we generate from our operations may differ materially from our profit or loss for the period, which will be affected by non-cash items. We may incur other expenses or liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the cash available for dividends. Under Bermuda law, a company may not declare or pay dividends if there are reasonable grounds for believing that: (i) the company is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due; or (ii) the realizable value of the company’s assets would thereby be less than its liabilities. Under our bye-laws, each common share is entitled to dividends as and when any such dividends are declared by our board of directors. As a result of these and the other factors mentioned above, we may pay dividends during periods when we record losses and may not pay dividends during periods when we record a profit. We can give no assurance that dividends will be paid in the future. We are a holding company and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries, including GasLog Partners, to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments. We are a holding company. Our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our operations and own all of our operating assets, including our ships. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries, including GasLog Partners, in which we hold a 32.9% equity interest (including our 2.0% general partner interest) as well as all of the incentive distribution rights. As a result, our ability to pay our obligations and to make dividend payments depends entirely on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us, including cash distributions and management and administrative services fees received from GasLog Partners. The ability of a subsidiary to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, or by the law of its jurisdiction of incorporation which regulates the payment of dividends. Other factors which may impact the value of our equity interest in GasLog Partners and its ability to distribute funds to us are described in its public filings with the SEC. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to declare or pay dividends. Fluctuations in exchange rates and interest rates could result in financial losses for us. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates may have an impact on our financial performance. We receive virtually all of our revenues in dollars, while some of our operating expenses, including employee costs and certain crew costs, are denominated in euros. As a result, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk. However, we also maintain cash balances in euros, which amounted to approximately $20.95 million as of December 31, 2015. Although we monitor exchange rate fluctuations on a continuous basis, we do not currently hedge movements in currency exchange rates. As a result, there is a risk that currency fluctuations will have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. In addition, we are exposed to a market risk relating to fluctuations in interest rates because our credit facilities bear interest costs at a floating rate based on London Interbank Offered Rate, or “LIBOR”. Significant increases in LIBOR could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders and ability to service our debt. Although we use interest rate swaps from time to time to reduce our exposure to interest rate risk, we hedge only a portion of our outstanding indebtedness. There is no assurance that our derivative contracts will provide adequate protection against adverse changes in interest rates or that our bank counterparties will be able to perform their obligations. 27 The derivative contracts used to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates could result in reductions in our shareholders’ equity as well as charges against our profit. We enter into interest rate swaps from time to time for purposes of managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates applicable to floating rate indebtedness. As of December 31, 2015, we had 20 interest rate swaps in place with a notional amount of $906.38 million. For the 6 interest rate swaps that have been designated as cash flow hedging instruments, the changes in the fair value of the contracts are recognized in our statement of other comprehensive income or loss as cash flow hedge gains or losses for the period, and could affect compliance with the market value adjusted net worth covenants in our credit facilities. In addition, the changes in the fair value of the 14 derivative contracts that have not been designated as cash flow hedging instruments are recognized in our statement of profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of any derivative contracts that do not qualify for treatment as cash flow hedges for financial reporting purposes would affect, among other things, our profit, earnings per share and affect compliance with the market value adjusted net worth covenants in our credit facilities. In June 2013 and April 2014, we entered into six Cross Currency Swaps, or “CCSs”, to exchange interest payments and principal on maturity on the same terms as the Bond Agreement, in order to hedge the variability of the functional currency equivalent cash flows on the Bond. As of December 31, 2015, the six CCSs had a notional amount of $166.82 million and qualified as cash flow hedging instruments for accounting purposes. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of CCSs is recognized in other comprehensive income while the ineffective portion impacts the statement of profit or loss for the period. There is no assurance that our derivative contracts will provide adequate protection against adverse changes in interest rates or that our bank counterparties will be able to perform their obligations. In addition, as a result of the implementation of new regulation of the swaps markets in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere over the next few years, the cost and availability of interest rate and currency hedges may increase or suitable hedges may not be available. Our earnings and business are subject to the credit risk associated with our contractual counterparties. We enter into, among other things, time charters, ship management agreements and other contracts with our customers, shipbuilding contracts and refund guarantees relating to newbuildings, credit facilities and commitment letters with banks, insurance contracts and interest rate swaps. Such agreements subject us to counterparty credit risk. The ability and willingness of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend upon a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the natural gas and LNG markets and charter hire rates. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. Our business depends on certain of our senior executives who are subject to increasing demands as a result of our growth and who may not necessarily continue to work for us. Increasing demands are placed on our management as a result of our growth. As we expand operations, we must monitor our operations, control costs and maintain quality control. In addition, the provision of management services to our publicly traded subsidiary, GasLog Partners, has increased the complexity of our business and placed additional demands on our management. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and the efforts of our Chairman, Peter G. Livanos, and certain of our senior executives. Mr. Livanos has substantial experience in the shipping industry and has worked with us for many years. He and certain of our senior executives are important to the execution of our business strategies and to the growth and development of our business. If Mr. Livanos or one or more of our senior executives ceased to be affiliated with us, we may be unable to recruit other employees with equivalent talent and experience, and our business and financial condition could suffer. 28 We are a partial owner of Egypt LNG. The dividends we receive on account of our ownership interest may decline in the future and we may have to write down the value of our investment. We currently own a 25.0% stake in Egypt LNG, an entity whose principal asset is the LNG carrier Methane Nile Eagle, which is currently operating under a 20-year time charter with MSL. On October 29, 2015, Egypt LNG and BG Group mutually agreed to lay up the Methane Nile Eagle for a period of approximately one year. The charterer continues to pay charter hire costs adjusted for net savings in operating expenses and insurance as a result of the vessel being laid up. The declaration and payment of dividends by Egypt LNG is subject to the discretion of its board of directors, which we do not control, as well as other restrictions, including a minimum cash reserve requirement. As a result, the dividends we receive on account of our ownership interest may decline in the future, which would adversely impact our cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. In the event of an adverse change in the operating results of Egypt LNG resulting from, among other things, unscheduled off-hire days, damage to or loss of the Methane Nile Eagle or early termination of the ship’s charter, we would expect the amount of dividends we receive to be reduced or eliminated, and we may be required to record an impairment of our investment. The loss may limit our ability to borrow against our assets for future credit and could also adversely affect our share price. In addition, we have entered into a shareholders’ agreement with the other shareholders of Egypt LNG that imposes restrictions, including preemption rights, on each party’s ability to transfer, grant any security interest over or otherwise dispose of its ownership interest. Risks Related to Our Securities The price of our equity securities may be volatile. The price of our equity securities may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in quarterly and annual results; • fluctuations in the seaborne transportation industry, including fluctuations in the LNG carrier market; • mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organizations standards; • shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts; • our payment of dividends; • announcements concerning us or our competitors; • the failure of securities analysts to publish research about us, or analysts making changes in their financial estimates; • general economic conditions; • terrorist acts; • future sales of our shares or other securities; • investors’ perceptions of us and the LNG shipping industry; • our payment of cash dividends to our shareholders; • the general state of the securities markets; and • other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors. Securities markets worldwide are experiencing significant price and volume fluctuations. The market price for our common shares may also be volatile. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common shares despite our operating performance. 29 Increases in interest rates may cause the market price of our securities to decline. An increase in interest rates may cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments in general. Any such increase in interest rates may result in a reduction in demand for our securities resulting from other relatively more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our securities to decline. We are a “foreign private issuer” under NYSE rules, and as such we are entitled to exemption from certain NYSE corporate governance standards, and you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. We are a “foreign private issuer” under the securities laws of the United States and the rules of the NYSE. Under the securities laws of the United States, “foreign private issuers” are subject to different disclosure requirements than U.S. domiciled registrants, as well as different financial reporting requirements. Under the NYSE rules, a “foreign private issuer” is subject to less stringent corporate governance requirements. Subject to certain exceptions, the rules of the NYSE permit a “foreign private issuer” to follow its home country practice in lieu of the listing requirements of the NYSE, including (i) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (ii) the requirement that the nominating/corporate governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors and have a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (iii) the requirement that the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors and have a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (iv) the requirement of an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. As permitted by these exemptions, as well as by our bye-laws and the laws of Bermuda, we have one or more non-independent directors serving as committee members on our compensation committee and our corporate governance and nominating committee. As a result, non-independent directors may, among other things, participate in fixing the compensation of our management, making share and option awards and resolving governance issues regarding our Company. Accordingly, in the future you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Future sales of our equity securities could cause the market price of our equity securities to decline. Sales of a substantial number of our equity securities in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our equity securities. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. In the future we may issue additional equity securities which may be pari passu with or senior to our common shares. The issuance by us of additional common shares or other equity securities that are contractually or structurally pari passu with or senior to our common shares would have the following effects: • our shareholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the dividend amount payable per share on our common shares may be lower; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common share may be diminished; and • the market price of our common shares may decline. Our shareholders also may elect to sell large numbers of equity securities held by them from time to time. The number of our equity securities available for sale in the public market will be limited by restrictions applicable under securities laws. 30 Our Preference Shares are subordinated to our debt obligations and investors’ interests could be diluted by the issuance of additional preference shares and by other transactions. Our Preference Shares are subordinated to all of our existing and future indebtedness. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we had an average of $2.35 billion of outstanding indebtedness. Our existing indebtedness restricts, and our future indebtedness may include restrictions on, our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. Our memorandum of association and bye-laws currently authorizes the issuance of an unlimited number of preference shares out of the 500,000,000 shares of share capital in one or more classes or series. The issuance of additional preference shares on a parity with or senior to our Preference Shares would dilute the interests of the holders of our Preference Shares, and any issuance of preference shares senior to or on a parity with our Preference Shares or of additional indebtedness could affect our ability to pay dividends on, redeem or pay the liquidation preference on our Preference Shares. No provisions relating to our Preference Shares protect the holders of our Preference Shares in the event of a highly leveraged or other transaction, including the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all our assets or business, which might adversely affect the holders of our Preference Shares. Our Preference Shares rank pari passu with any other class or series of shares established after the original issue date of the Preference Shares that is not expressly subordinated or senior to the Preference Shares as to the payment of dividends and amounts payable upon liquidation or reorganization. If less than all dividends payable with respect to the Preference Shares and any parity securities are paid, any partial payment shall be made pro rata with respect to shares of Preference Shares and any parity securities entitled to a dividend payment at such time in proportion to the aggregate amounts remaining due in respect of such shares at such time. Holders of our Preference Shares have extremely limited voting rights. Our common shares are the only class of our shares carrying full voting rights. Holders of the Preference Shares generally have no voting rights. However, if and whenever dividends payable on the Preference Shares are in arrears for six or more quarterly periods, whether or not consecutive, holders of Preference Shares (voting together as a class with all other classes or series of parity securities upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) will be entitled to elect one additional director to serve on our board of directors, and the size of our board of directors will be increased as needed to accommodate such change (unless the size of our board of directors already has been increased by reason of the election of a director by holders of parity securities upon which like voting rights have been conferred and with which the Preference Shares voted as a class for the election of such director). The right of such holders of Preference Shares to elect a member of our board of directors will continue until such time as all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the Preference Shares have been paid in full. In addition, holders of Preference Shares are entitled to vote together with holders of common shares on matters related to the approval of an amalgamation or merger. The Preference Shares represent perpetual equity interests and holders have no right to receive any greater payment than the liquidation preference regardless of the circumstances. The Preference Shares represent perpetual equity interests in us and, unlike our indebtedness, will not give rise to a claim for payment of a principal amount at a particular date. As a result, holders of the Preference Shares may be required to bear the financial risks of an investment in the Preference Shares for an indefinite period of time. The payment due to a holder of Preference Shares upon a liquidation is fixed at the redemption preference of $25.00 per share plus accumulated and unpaid dividends to the date of liquidation. If, in the case of our liquidation, there are remaining assets to be distributed after payment of this amount, holders of Preference Shares will have no right to receive or to participate in these amounts. Furthermore, if the market price for Preference Shares is greater than the liquidation preference, holders of Preference Shares will have no right to receive the market price from us upon our liquidation. 31 Entities controlled by members of the Livanos family are our principal shareholders and can effectively control the outcome of most matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote; their interests may be different from yours. Entities controlled by members of the Livanos family, including our Chairman, may be deemed to beneficially own approximately 40.7% of our issued and outstanding common shares. As a result of shareholding, Mr. Livanos can effectively control the outcome of most matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, including the election of our entire board of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of these shareholders may be different from yours. Provisions in our organizational documents may have anti-takeover effects. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions require an affirmative vote of a majority of the votes attaching to all issued and outstanding shares to approve any merger, consolidation, amalgamation or similar transactions. Our bye-laws also provide for restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated. These provisions could make it difficult for our shareholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing an offer by a third party to acquire us, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. Tax Risks In addition to the following risk factors, you should read “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Tax Considerations” for a more complete discussion of the material Bermuda and U.S. Federal income tax considerations relating to us and the ownership and disposition of our common shares and Preference Shares. We will have to pay tax on U.S.-source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the “Code”, the U.S. source gross transportation income of a ship-owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves, is subject to a 4% U.S. Federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under a tax treaty or Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. U.S. source gross transportation income consists of 50% of the gross shipping income that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States. We do not currently qualify for a tax treaty exemption or a statutory tax exemption, and therefore we are subject to the 4% U.S. Federal income tax described above. We do not expect any resulting U.S. tax liability to be material or materially reduce the earnings available for distribution to our shareholders for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016. For 2015, the accrued U.S. source gross transportation tax was $0.01 million. Changes to our business could change this expectation and in such circumstances we may attempt to qualify for the exemption from tax under Section 883. For a more detailed discussion, see the section entitled “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—U.S. Taxation of Our Operating Income”. If we were treated as a “passive foreign investment company”, certain adverse U.S. Federal income tax consequences could result to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company”, or “PFIC”, for U.S. Federal income tax purposes if at least 75% of its gross income for any tax year consists of certain types of “passive income”, or at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income”. For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment 32 property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income”. U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. Federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. If we are treated as a PFIC for any tax year, we will provide information to U.S. shareholders who request such information to enable them to make certain elections to alleviate certain of the adverse U.S. Federal income tax consequences that would arise as a result of holding an interest in a PFIC. Based on our method of operation, we do not believe that we are a PFIC for this tax year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute “passive income”, and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. Accordingly, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or the “IRS”, or a court of law may not accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, we could constitute a PFIC for a future tax year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any tax year, U.S. shareholders would face adverse tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make certain elections available under the Code, such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. Federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares or Preference Shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period. Please read “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation of United States Holders—PFIC Status and Significant Tax Consequences” for a more detailed discussion of the U.S. Federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. 