Risk Factors” and “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” 2 Table of Contents The diagram below depicts our organizational structure as of December 31, 2012: Recent Developments In May 2012 we commenced crude shipments via rail into a newly developed crude rail unloading facility at our Delaware City refinery. In February 2013, we completed a second crude unloading facility at the refinery that increased our rail crude unloading capacity at Delaware City from 40,000 barrels per day (“bpd”) to 110,000 bpd, comprised of 40,000 bpd of heavy crude oil and 70,000 bpd of light crude oil. The Delaware City rail unloading facility allows our East Coast refineries to source WTI based crudes from Western Canada and the Midcontinent, which provides significant cost advantages versus traditional Brent based international crudes. Also in February 2013, our board of directors approved a project to add an additional 40,000 bpd of heavy crude rail unloading capability at the refinery. The project is expected to cost approximately $50 million and to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2013. Completion of the project will increase our discharge capacity of heavy crude oil from 40,000 bpd to 80,000 bpd and bring the total rail crude unloading capability up to 150,000 bpd. 3 Table of Contents During 2012 and January 2013, we entered into agreements to lease or purchase a total of 3,600 coiled and insulated rails cars, which are capable of transporting Canadian heavy crude oils, and 1,300 general purpose cars, which we intend to use to transport lighter crude oils. In addition, we recently announced that the Toledo refinery experienced a drop in steam pressure on January 30, 2013, which was followed by a brief fire within the FCC complex. Emergency response personnel extinguished the fire and there were no injuries or known offsite impacts. Appropriate government agencies were contacted and a full investigation into the cause of the incident is underway. The FCC was the only unit involved and was temporarily shut down. The refinery resumed running at planned rates on February 18, 2013. Our board of directors recently authorized the Company to continue its activities into establishing a MLP, including the formation of subsidiaries to hold MLP-qualifying assets. The Company has a number of energy-related logistical assets that qualify for an MLP structure. However, we continue to evaluate our strategic alternatives for these assets. Refining Operations We own and operate three refineries, all located in regions with currently favorable market dynamics where finished product demand exceeds operating refining capacity. We produce a variety of products at each of our refineries, including gasoline, ULSD, heating oil, jet fuel, lubricants, petrochemicals and asphalt. We sell our products throughout the Northeast and Midwest of the United States, as well as in other regions of the United States and Canada, and are able to ship products to other international destinations. Delaware City Refinery Acquisition and Re-Start. Through our subsidiaries, Delaware City Refining and Delaware Pipeline Company LLC, we acquired the idle Delaware City refinery and its related assets, including a petroleum product terminal, a petroleum products pipeline and an electric generation facility, on June 1, 2010 from affiliates of Valero for approximately $220.0 million in cash, consisting of approximately $170.0 million for the refinery, terminal and pipeline assets and $50.0 million for the power plant complex located on the property. We also incurred approximately $4.3 million in acquisition costs. In the fourth quarter of 2009, due to, among other reasons, financial losses caused by one of the worst recessions in recent history, the prior owner shut down the Delaware City refinery. We believe we were therefore able to acquire the refinery at an attractive price. In addition, at the time of acquisition, we reached an agreement with the State of Delaware that provided for a five-year operating permit and up to approximately $45.0 million of economic support to re-start the facility, and negotiated a new long-term contract with the relevant union at the refinery. As of December 31, 2012, we had received $37.4 million in economic support from the State of Delaware under this agreement. We believe that the refinery’s ability to process lower quality crudes allows us to capture a higher margin as these lower quality crudes are typically priced at discounts to benchmark crudes, and to compete effectively in a region where product demand currently significantly exceeds refining capacity. We restarted the Delaware City Refinery in October 2011. Since our acquisition through December 31, 2012, we have invested more than $500.0 million in turnaround and re-start projects at Delaware City, as well as in the recent strategic development of crude rail unloading facilities. In the first year of operations we have also modified the crude slate and product yield, changed operations of the conversion units, and re-started certain units in order to optimize the refinery. The re-start process included the decommissioning of the gasifier unit located on the property which allowed us to decrease emissions and improve the reliability of the refinery. We have also completed a cogeneration project to convert the electric generation units at the refinery to use natural gas as a fuel and a hydrocracker corrosion control project aimed at increasing the throughput of the hydrocracker. Through these capital investments and by restructuring certain operations, management estimates that we have lowered the annual operating expenses of the Delaware City refinery. In 2012, we commenced a project to 4 Table of Contents expand and upgrade the existing on-site railroad infrastructure, including the expansion of the crude rail unloading facilities that was completed in February 2013 and is capable of discharging approximately 110,000 bpd. The project cost approximately $57.0 million, $49.7 million of which had been spent as of December 31, 2012. Also in February 2013, our board of directors approved a project to add an additional 40,000 bpd of heavy crude rail unloading capability at the refinery. Additionally, we continue to evaluate the development of a construction project consisting of a mild hydrocracker and hydrogen plant at the refinery. We estimate that the construction of the project, if commenced, could take approximately three years from commencement and if completed could process streams from both Delaware City and Paulsboro. Overview. The Delaware City refinery is located on a 5,000-acre site, with access to waterborne cargoes and an extensive distribution network of pipelines, barges and tankers, truck and rail. Delaware City is a fully integrated operation that receives crude via rail at the crude unloading facility, or ship or barge at its docks located on the Delaware River. The crude and other feedstocks are transported, via pipes, to an extensive tank farm where they are stored until processing. In addition, there is a 17-bay, 50,000 bpd capacity truck loading rack located adjacent to the refinery and a 23-mile interstate pipeline that are used to distribute clean products. The Delaware City refinery has a throughput capacity of 190,000 bpd and a Nelson Complexity Index of 11.3. As a result of its configuration and process units, Delaware City has the capability of processing a heavy slate of crudes with a high concentration of high sulfur crudes and is one of the largest and most complex refineries on the East Coast. The Delaware City refinery is one of two heavy coking refineries, in addition to Paulsboro, on the East Coast of the United States with coking capacity equal to approximately 25% of crude capacity. The Delaware City refinery processes a variety of medium to heavy, sour crude oils. The refinery has large conversion capacity with its 82,000 bpd FCC unit, 47,000 bpd FCU and 18,000 bpd hydrocracking unit with vacuum distillation. Hydrogen is provided via the refinery’s steam methane reformer and continuous catalytic reformer. Delaware City Process Flow Diagram 5 Table of Contents The following table approximates the Delaware City refinery’s major process unit capacities. Unit capacities are shown in barrels per stream day. Refinery Units NameplateCapacity Crude Distillation Unit 190,000 Vacuum Distillation Unit 102,000 Fluid Catalytic Cracking Unit (FCC) 82,000 Hydrotreating Units 160,000 Hydrocracking Unit 18,000 Catalytic Reforming Unit (CCR) 43,000 Benzene / Toluene Extraction Unit 15,000 Butane Isomerization Unit (ISOM) 6,000 Alkylation Unit (Alky) 11,000 Polymerization Unit (Poly) 16,000 Fluid Coking Unit (Fluid Coker) 47,000 Feedstocks and Supply Arrangements. In April 2011, we entered into a crude and feedstock supply agreement with Statoil that expires in December 31, 2015. Pursuant to the agreement as amended in October 2012, we direct Statoil to purchase waterborne crude and other feedstocks for Delaware City and Statoil purchases these products on the spot market or through term agreements. Accordingly, Statoil enters into, on our behalf, hedging arrangements to protect against changes in prices between the time of purchase and the time of processing the feedstocks. In addition to procurement, for these waterborne deliveries Statoil arranges transportation and insurance for the crude and feedstock supply and we pay Statoil a per barrel fee for their procurement and logistics services. Statoil generally holds title to the waterborne crude and feedstocks until we run the crude or feedstocks through our process units. We pay Statoil on a daily basis for the corresponding volume of crude or feedstocks that are consumed in conjunction with the refining process. This crude supply and feedstock arrangement helps us reduce the amount of investment we are required to maintain in crude inventories and, as a result, helps us manage our working capital. Product Offtake. We sell the bulk of Delaware City’s clean products to MSCG through our offtake agreement, which we have given notice to terminate effective June 30, 2013. Under the offtake agreement, MSCG purchases 100% of our finished clean products at Delaware City, which includes gasoline, heating oil and jet fuel, as well as our intermediates. Subsequent to termination of the offtake agreement, we intend to market and independently sell the products currently purchased by MSCG. The remainder of our products are sold to a variety of customers on the spot market or through term agreements. Tankage Capacity. The Delaware City refinery has total storage capacity of approximately 10.0 million barrels. Of the total, 18 tanks with approximately 3.6 million barrels of storage capacity are dedicated to crude oil and other feedstock storage with the remaining approximately 6.4 million barrels allocated to finished products, intermediates and other products. Energy and Other Utilities. Under normal operating conditions, the Delaware City refinery consumes approximately 55,000 MMBTU per day of natural gas. The Delaware City refinery has a 280 MW power plant located on-site that consists of two natural gas-fueled turbines with combined capacity of approximately 140 MW and four turbo-generators with combined nameplate capacity of approximately 140 MW. Collectively, this power plant produces electricity in excess of Delaware City’s refinery load of approximately 90 MW. Excess electricity is sold into the Pennsylvania-New Jersey-Maryland, or PJM, grid. Steam is primarily produced by a combination of three dedicated boilers and supplemented by secondary boilers at the FCC and coker. 6 Table of Contents Paulsboro Refinery Acquisition. We acquired the entities that owned the Paulsboro refinery (including an associated natural gas pipeline) on December 17, 2010, from Valero for approximately $357.7 million, excluding working capital. The purchase price excludes inventory purchased on our behalf by MSCG and Statoil. We invested approximately $60.0 million in capital in early 2011 to complete a scheduled turnaround at the refinery. The refinery was commissioned in 1917 and was purchased by Valero from Mobil Oil Corporation in 1998. Overview. Paulsboro has a throughput capacity of 180,000 bpd and a Nelson Complexity Index of 13.2. The Paulsboro refinery is located on approximately 950 acres on the Delaware River in Paulsboro, New Jersey, just south of Philadelphia and approximately 30 miles away from Delaware City. Paulsboro receives crude and feedstocks via its marine terminal on the Delaware River. Paulsboro is one of two operating refineries on the East Coast with coking capacity, the other being Delaware City. Major units at the Paulsboro refinery include crude distillation units, vacuum distillation units, an FCC unit, a delayed coking unit, a lube oil processing unit and a propane deasphalting unit. The Paulsboro refinery processes a variety of medium and heavy, sour crude oils. The Paulsboro refinery predominantly produces gasoline, heating oil and jet fuel and also manufactures Group I base oils or lubricants. In addition to its finished clean products slate, Paulsboro produces asphalt and petroleum coke. Paulsboro Refinery Process Flow Diagram 7 Table of Contents The following table approximates the Paulsboro refinery’s major process unit capacities. Unit capacities are shown in barrels per stream day. Refinery Units NameplateCapacity Crude Distillation Units 168,000 Vacuum Distillation Units 83,000 Fluid Catalytic Cracking Unit (FCC) 55,000 Hydrotreating Units 141,000 Catalytic Reforming Unit (CCR) 32,000 Alkylation Unit (Alky) 11,000 Lube Oil Processing Unit 12,000 Delayed Coking Unit (Coker) 27,000 Propane Deasphalting Unit 11,000 Feedstocks and Supply Arrangements. In December 2010, we entered into a crude and feedstock supply agreement with Statoil that will terminate effective March 31, 2013. Pursuant to the agreement, we direct Statoil to purchase crude and other feedstocks for Paulsboro and Statoil purchases these products on the spot market. Accordingly, Statoil enters into, on our behalf, hedging arrangements to protect against changes in prices between the time of purchase and the time of processing the feedstocks. In addition to procurement, Statoil generally arranges transportation and insurance for the crude and feedstock supply and we pay Statoil a per barrel fee for their procurement and logistics services. Statoil holds title to the crude and feedstocks until we run the crude or feedstocks through our process units. We pay Statoil on a daily basis for the corresponding volume of crude or feedstocks that are consumed in conjunction with the refining process. In addition, separate from our agreement with Statoil we have a long-term contract with Saudi Aramco. We have been purchasing up to approximately 100,000 bpd of crude oil from Saudi Aramco that is processed at Paulsboro pursuant to this agreement and on a spot basis. The crude purchased is priced off ASCI. Product Offtake. We sell the bulk of Paulsboro’s clean products to MSCG through our offtake agreement, which we have elected to terminate effective June 30, 2013. With the exception of certain jet fuel and lubricant sales, MSCG purchases 100% of our finished clean products and intermediates under the offtake agreement. Subsequent to termination of the offtake agreement, we intend to market and independently sell the products currently purchased by MSCG including under certain existing agreements with other customers that we will assume upon the MSCG termination. In addition to the finished products offtake agreement with MSCG, we sell the remaining products produced at Paulsboro to third parties under various long-term contracts and on the spot market. Tankage Capacity. The Paulsboro refinery has total storage capacity of approximately 7.5 million barrels. Of the total, approximately 2.1 million barrels are dedicated to crude oil storage with the remaining 5.4 million barrels allocated to finished products, intermediates and other products. Energy and Other Utilities. Under normal operating conditions, the Paulsboro refinery consumes approximately 30,000 MMBTU per day of natural gas. The Paulsboro refinery is virtually self-sufficient for its electrical power requirements. The refinery supplies approximately 90% of its 63 MW load through a combination of four generators with a nameplate capacity of 78 MW, in addition to a 30 MW gas turbine generator and two 15 MW steam turbine generators located at the Paulsboro utility plant. In the event that Paulsboro requires additional electricity to operate the refinery, supplemental power is available through a local utility. Paulsboro is connected to the grid via three separate 69 KV aerial feeders and has the ability to run entirely on imported power. Steam is primarily produced by three boilers, each with continuous rated capacity of 300,000-lb/hr at 900-psi. In addition, Paulsboro has a heat recovery steam generator and a number of waste heat boilers throughout the refinery that supplement the steam generation capacity. Paulsboro’s current hydrogen needs are met by the hydrogen supply from the reformer. In addition, the refinery employs a standalone steam methane reformer that is capable of producing 10 MMSCFD of 99% pure hydrogen. This ancillary hydrogen plant is utilized as a back-up source of hydrogen for the refinery’s process units. 8 Table of Contents Toledo Refinery Acquisition. Through our subsidiary, Toledo Refining, we acquired the Toledo refinery on March 1, 2011, from Sunoco for approximately $400.0 million, excluding working capital. We also purchased refined and certain intermediate products in inventory for approximately $299.6 million, and MSCG purchased the refinery’s crude oil inventory on our behalf. Additionally, included in the terms of the sale is a five-year participation payment of up to $125.0 million payable to Sunoco based upon post-acquisition earnings of the refinery, of which $103.6 million was paid in 2012. We currently anticipate paying the balance of the participation payment in April 2013. Overview. Toledo has a throughput capacity of approximately 170,000 bpd and a Nelson Complexity Index of 9.2. Toledo processes a slate of light, sweet crudes from Canada, the Midcontinent, the Bakken region and the U.S. Gulf Coast. Toledo produces a high percentage of finished products including gasoline and ULSD, in addition to a variety of high-value petrochemicals including nonene, xylene, tetramer and toluene. The Toledo refinery is located on a 282-acre site near Toledo, Ohio, approximately 60 miles from Detroit. Major units at the Toledo refinery include an FCC unit, a hydrocracker, an alkylation unit and a UDEX unit. Crude is delivered to the Toledo refinery through three primary pipelines: (1) Enbridge from the north, (2) Capline from the south and (3) Mid-Valley from the south. Crude is also delivered to a nearby terminal by rail and from local sources by truck to a truck unloading facility within the refinery. Toledo Refinery Process Flow Diagram 9 Table of Contents The following table approximates the Toledo refinery’s major process unit capacities. Unit capacities are shown in barrels per stream day. Refinery Units NameplateCapacity Crude Distillation Unit 170,000 Fluid Catalytic Cracking Unit (FCC) 79,000 Hydrotreating Units 95,000 Hydrocracking Unit (HCC) 45,000 Catalytic Reforming Units 45,000 Alkylation Unit (Alky) 10,000 Polymerization Unit (Poly) 7,000 UDEX Unit (BTX) 16,300 Feedstocks and Supply Arrangements. We have a short term crude oil acquisition agreement with MSCG pursuant to which we direct MSCG to purchase crude and other feedstocks for Toledo. MSCG purchases these products on the spot market. Accordingly, MSCG enters into, on our behalf, hedging arrangements to protect against changes in prices between the time of purchase and the time of processing the feedstocks. In addition to procurement, MSCG arranges transportation and insurance for the crude and feedstock supply and we pay MSCG a per barrel fee for their procurement and logistics services. We pay MSCG on a daily basis for the corresponding volume of crude or feedstocks two days after they are consumed in conjunction with the refining process. This arrangement helps us reduce the amount of investment we are required to maintain in crude inventories and, as a result, helps us manage our working capital. Product Offtake. Toledo is connected, via pipelines, to an extensive distribution network throughout Ohio, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. The finished products are transported on pipelines owned by Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. and Buckeye Partners. In addition, we have proprietary connections to a variety of smaller pipelines and spurs that help us optimize our clean products distribution. A significant portion of Toledo’s gasoline and ULSD are distributed through the approximately 28 terminals in this network. In March 2011, we entered into an agreement with Sunoco whereby Sunoco purchases gasoline and distillate products representing approximately one-third of the Toledo refinery’s gasoline and distillates production. The agreement has a three year term, subject to certain early termination rights. We sell the bulk of the petrochemicals produced at the Toledo refinery through short-term contracts or on the spot market and the majority of the petrochemical distribution is done via rail. Tankage Capacity. The Toledo refinery has total storage capacity of approximately 4.0 million barrels. The Toledo refinery receives its crude through pipeline connections and a truck rack. Of the total, approximately 0.4 million barrels are dedicated to crude oil storage with the remaining 3.6 million barrels allocated to intermediates and products. Energy and Other Utilities. Under normal operating conditions, the Toledo refinery consumes approximately 17,000 MMBTU per day of natural gas. The Toledo refinery purchases its electricity from a local utility and has a long-term contract to purchase hydrogen and steam from a local third party supplier. In addition to the third party steam supplier, Toledo consumes a portion of the steam that is generated by its various process units. Customers We sell a variety of refined products to a diverse customer base. We currently have product offtake agreements in place for a large portion of our clean product sales. For the year ended December 31, 2012, MSCG and Sunoco accounted for 57% and 10% of our revenues, respectively. The remainder of our refined products are primarily sold through short-term contracts or on the spot market. 10 Table of Contents Seasonality Demand for gasoline is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction work. Decreased demand during the winter months can lower gasoline prices. As a result, our operating results for the first and fourth calendar quarters may be lower than those for the second and third calendar quarters of each year. Competition The refining business is very competitive. We compete directly with various other refining companies both on the East and Gulf Coasts and in the Midcontinent, with integrated oil companies, with foreign refiners that import products into the United States and with producers and marketers in other industries supplying alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of industrial, commercial and individual consumers. Some of our competitors have expanded the capacity of their refineries and internationally new refineries are coming on line which could also affect our competitive position. Profitability in the refining industry depends largely on refined product margins, which can fluctuate significantly, as well as operating efficiency and reliability, product mix and costs of product distribution and transportation. Certain of our competitors that have larger and more complex refineries may be able to realize lower per-barrel costs or higher margins per barrel of throughput. Several of our principal competitors are integrated national or international oil companies that are larger and have substantially greater resources. Because of their integrated operations and larger capitalization, these companies may be more flexible in responding to volatile industry or market conditions, such as shortages of feedstocks or intense price fluctuations. Refining margins are frequently impacted by sharp changes in crude oil costs, which may not be immediately reflected in product prices. The refining industry is highly competitive with respect to feedstock supply. Unlike certain of our competitors that have access to proprietary controlled sources of crude oil production available for use at their own refineries, we obtain substantially all of our crude oil and other feedstocks from unaffiliated sources. The availability and cost of crude oil is affected by global supply and demand. We have no crude oil reserves and are not engaged in the exploration or production of crude oil. We believe, however, that we will be able to obtain adequate crude oil and other feedstocks at generally competitive prices for the foreseeable future. Corporate Offices We lease approximately 53,000 square feet for our principal corporate offices in Parsippany, New Jersey. The lease for our principal corporate offices expires in 2016. Functions performed in the Parsipanny office include overall corporate management, refinery and HSE management, planning and strategy, corporate finance, commercial operations, logistics, contract administration, marketing, investor relations, governmental affairs, accounting, tax, treasury, information technology, legal and human resources support functions. Employees As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 1,612 employees. At Paulsboro, 295 of our 457 employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in March 2015. In addition, 652 of our 994 employees at Delaware City and Toledo are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in February of 2015. None of our corporate employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relations with the represented employees to be satisfactory. 11 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following is a list of our executive officers as of February 25, 2013: Name Age Position Thomas D. O’Malley 71 Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors Thomas J. Nimbley 61 Chief Executive Officer Michael D. Gayda 58 President Donald F. Lucey 60 Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer Matthew C. Lucey 39 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey Dill 51 Senior Vice President, General Counsel Thomas D. O’Malley has served as Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of PBF Energy since its formation in November 2011, served as Executive Chairman of PBF LLC and its predecessors from March 2008 to February 2013 and was our Chief Executive Officer from inception until June 2010. Mr. O’Malley has more than 30 years experience in the refining industry. He served as Chairman of the Board of Petroplus Holdings A.G., listed on the Swiss Exchange, from May 2006 until February 2011, and was Chief Executive Officer from May 2006 until September 2007. Mr. O’Malley was Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Premcor, a domestic oil refiner and Fortune 250 company listed on the NYSE, from February 2002 until December 2004, and continued as Chairman until its sale to Valero in August 2005. Before joining Premcor, Mr. O’Malley was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Tosco Corporation. This Fortune 100 company, listed on the NYSE, was the largest independent oil refiner and marketer of oil products in the United States, with annualized revenues of approximately $25.0 billion when it was sold to Philips Petroleum Company in September 2001. Thomas J. Nimbley has served as our Chief Executive Officer since June 2010 and was our Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer from March 2010 through June 2010. Prior thereto, he served as a Principal for Nimbley Consultants LLC from June 2005 to April 2010, where he provided consulting services and assisted on the acquisition of two refineries. He previously served as Senior Vice President and head of Refining for Phillips Petroleum Company and subsequently Senior Vice President and head of Refining for ConocoPhillips domestic refining system (13 locations) following the merger of Phillips and Conoco. Before joining Phillips at the time of its acquisition of Tosco in September 2001, Mr. Nimbley served in various positions with Tosco Corporation and its subsidiaries starting in April 1993. Michael D. Gayda joined us as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in April 2010 and has served as our President since June 2010, and was a director of PBF LLC from inception until October 2009. Prior thereto, from May 2006 until January 2010 Mr. Gayda served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Petroplus. Prior to Petroplus, he served as an executive officer of Premcor until its sale to Valero in August 2005 and as General Counsel—Refining for Phillips 66 Company, a division of Phillips Petroleum Company, following Phillips Petroleum’s acquisition of Tosco in September 2001. Mr. Gayda previously served as a Vice President of certain of Tosco’s subsidiaries. Donald F. Lucey joined us as our Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations in April 2008 and has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer since April 2010. From 2005 until April 2008, Mr. Lucey provided consulting services to a variety of energy companies. Prior thereto, Mr. Lucey served as Senior Vice President, Commercial for Premcor from April 2002 until August 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Lucey worked at both Tosco and Phillips Petroleum Company, where he managed Atlantic Basin fuel oil activities. Before joining Tosco, Mr. Lucey worked with Phibro Energy in its fuel oil products and solid fuels departments throughout the United States and abroad. Matthew C. Lucey joined us as our Vice President, Finance in April 2008 and has served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since April 2010. Prior thereto, Mr. Lucey served as a Managing Director of M.E. Zukerman & Co., a New York-based private equity firm specializing in several sectors of the broader energy industry, from 2001 to 2008. While at M.E. Zukerman & Co., Mr. Lucey participated in all aspects of the firm’s energy investment activities and served on the Management Committee of Penreco, a manufacturer of 12 Table of Contents specialty petroleum products; Cortez Pipeline Company, a 500 mile CO2 pipeline; and Venture Coke Company, a merchant petroleum coke calciner. Before joining M.E. Zukerman & Co., Mr. Lucey spent six years in the banking industry. Jeffrey Dill has served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since May 2010 and from March 2008 until September 2009. Mr. Dill served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary for Maxum Petroleum, Inc., a national marketer and logistics company for petroleum products, from September 2009 to May 2010 and as Consulting General Counsel and Secretary for NTR Acquisition Co., a special purpose acquisition company focused on downstream energy opportunities, from April 2007 to February 2008. Previously he served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary at Neurogen Corporation, a drug discovery and development company, from March 2006 to December 2007. Mr. Dill has over 15 years experience providing legal support to refining, transportation and marketing organizations in the petroleum industry, including positions at Premcor, ConocoPhillips, Tosco and Unocal. Environmental, Health and Safety Matters Refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of matter into the environment or otherwise relating to human health and safety or the protection of the environment. These laws regulate, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of petroleum and other regulated materials, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, remediation of contaminated sites, characteristics and composition of gasoline and distillates and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Permits are also required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. Compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of operations and capital requirements. We believe that our current operations are in substantial compliance with existing environmental laws, regulations and permits. Our operations and many of the products we manufacture are subject to certain specific requirements of the CAA, and related state and local regulations. The CAA contains provisions that require capital expenditures for the installation of certain air pollution control devices at our refineries. Subsequent rule making authorized by the CAA or similar laws or new agency interpretations of existing rules, may necessitate additional expenditures in future years. Additionally, as of January 1, 2011 we are required to meet an EPA regulation limiting the average sulfur content in gasoline to 30 PPM. The EPA has also announced that it plans to propose new “Tier 3” motor vehicle emission and fuel standards. It has been reported that these new Tier 3 regulations may, among other things, lower the maximum average sulfur content of gasoline from 30 PPM to 10 PPM. If the Tier 3 regulations are eventually implemented and lower the maximum allowable content of sulfur or other constituents in fuels that we produce, we may at some point in the future be required to make significant capital expenditures and/or incur materially increased operating costs to comply with the new standards. As of January 1, 2011, we are required to comply with the EPA’s Control of Hazardous Air Pollutants From Mobile Sources, or MSAT2, regulations on gasoline that impose reductions in the benzene content of our produced gasoline. We purchase benzene credits to meet these requirements. Our planned capital projects will reduce the amount of benzene credits that we need to purchase. In addition, the renewable fuel standards mandate the blending of prescribed percentages of renewable fuels (e.g., ethanol and biofuels) into our produced gasoline and diesel. These new requirements, other requirements of the CAA and other presently existing or future environmental regulations may cause us to make substantial capital expenditures as well as the purchase of credits at significant cost, to enable our refineries to produce products that meet applicable requirements. Our operations are also subject to the federal Clean Water Act, or the CWA, the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, or the SDWA, and comparable state and local requirements. The CWA, the SDWA and analogous laws prohibit any discharge into surface waters, ground waters, injection wells and publicly-owned treatment 13 Table of Contents works except in strict conformance with permits, such as pre-treatment permits and discharge permits, issued by federal, state and local governmental agencies. Federal waste-water discharge permits and analogous state waste-water discharge permits are valid for a maximum of five years and must be renewed. We generate wastes that may be subject to the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and comparable state and local requirements. The EPA and various state agencies have limited the approved methods of disposal for certain hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, also known as “Superfund,” imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. These persons include the current or former owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for investigation and the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. As discussed more fully below, certain of our sites are subject to these laws and we may be held liable for investigation and remediation costs or claims for natural resource damages. It is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment. Analogous state laws impose similar responsibilities and liabilities on responsible parties. In our current normal operations, we have generated waste, some of which falls within the statutory definition of a “hazardous substance” and some of which may have been disposed of at sites that may require cleanup under Superfund. As is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. These matters include soil and water contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed of. Current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our refineries and at our other facilities. To the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. Our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. We maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. In connection with each of our acquisitions, we assumed certain environmental remediation obligations. In the case of Paulsboro, a trust fund established to meet state financial assurance requirements, in the amount of approximately $12.1 million, the estimated cost of the remediation obligations assumed based on investigation undertaken as of the acquisition date, was acquired as part of the acquisition. The short term portion of the trust fund and corresponding liability are recorded as restricted cash and accrued expenses, the long term portion is recorded in other assets and other long-term liabilities. In connection with the acquisition of Delaware City, the prior owners remain responsible subject to certain limitations, for certain environmental obligations including ongoing remediation of soil and groundwater contamination at the site. Further, in connection with the Delaware City and Paulsboro acquisitions, we purchased two individual ten-year, $75.0 million environmental insurance policies to insure against unknown environmental liabilities at each refinery. In connection with the acquisition of Toledo, the seller, subject to certain limitations, initially retains remediation obligations which will transition to us over a 20-year period. However, there can be no assurance that any available indemnity, trust fund or insurance will be sufficient to cover any ultimate environmental liabilities we may incur with respect to our refineries which could be significant. 14 Table of Contents We cannot predict what additional health, safety and environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing requirements or discovery of new information such as unknown contamination could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. GLOSSARY OF SELECTED TERMS Unless otherwise noted or indicated by context, the following terms used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have the following meanings: “ASCI” refers to the Argus Sour Crude Index, a pricing index used to approximate market prices for sour, heavy crude oil. “Bakken” refers to both a crude oil production region generally covering North Dakota, Montana and Western Canada, and the crude oil that is produced in that region. “barrel” refers to a common unit of measure in the oil industry, which equates to 42 gallons. “blendstocks” refers to various compounds that are combined with gasoline or diesel from the crude oil refining process to make finished gasoline and diesel; these may include natural gasoline, FCC unit gasoline, ethanol, reformate or butane, among others. “bpd” refers to an abbreviation for barrels per day. “CAPP” refers to the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers. “catalyst” refers to a substance that alters, accelerates, or instigates chemical changes, but is not produced as a product of the refining process. “coke” refers to a coal-like substance that is produced from heavier crude oil fractions during the refining process. “complexity” refers to the number, type and capacity of processing units at a refinery, measured by the Nelson Complexity Index, which is often used as a measure of a refinery’s ability to process lower quality crude in an economic manner. “crack spread” refers to a simplified calculation that measures the difference between the price for light products and crude oil. For example, we reference (a) the 2-1-1 crack spread, which is a general industry standard that approximates the per barrel refining margin resulting from processing two barrels of crude oil to produce one barrel of gasoline and one barrel of heating oil or ULSD, and (b) the 4-3-1 crack spread, which is a benchmark utilized by our Toledo refinery that approximates the per barrel refining margin resulting from processing four barrels of crude oil to produce three barrels of gasoline and one-half barrel of jet fuel and one-half barrel of ULSD. “Dated Brent” refers to Brent blend oil, a light, sweet North Sea crude oil, characterized by an API gravity of 38° and a sulfur content of approximately 0.4 weight percent that is used as a benchmark for other crude oils. “distillates” refers primarily to diesel, heating oil, kerosene and jet fuel. 15 Table of Contents “downstream” refers to the downstream sector of the energy industry generally describing oil refineries, marketing and distribution companies that refine crude oil and sell and distribute refined products. The opposite of the downstream sector is the upstream sector, which refers to exploration and production companies that search for and/or produce crude oil and natural gas underground or through drilling or exploratory wells. “EPA” refers to the United States Environmental Protection Agency. “ethanol” refers to a clear, colorless, flammable oxygenated liquid. Ethanol is typically produced chemically from ethylene, or biologically from fermentation of various sugars from carbohydrates found in agricultural crops and cellulosic residues from crops or wood. It is used in the United States as a gasoline octane enhancer and oxygenate. “feedstocks” refers to crude oil and partially refined petroleum products that are processed and blended into refined products. “FCC” refers to fluid catalytic cracking. “FCU” refers to fluid coking unit. “GHG” refers to greenhouse gas. “Group I base oils or lubricants” refers to conventionally refined products characterized by a sulfur content less than 0.03% with a viscosity index between 80 and 120. Typically, these products are used in a variety of automotive and industrial applications. “heavy crude oil” refers to a relatively inexpensive crude oil with a low API gravity characterized by high relative density and viscosity. Heavy crude oils require greater levels of processing to produce high value products such as gasoline and diesel. “IPO” refers to the initial public offering of PBF Energy’s Class A common stock which closed on December 18, 2012. “KV” refers to Kilovolts. “light crude oil” refers to a relatively expensive crude oil with a high API gravity characterized by low relative density and viscosity. Light crude oils require lower levels of processing to produce high value products such as gasoline and diesel. “light products” refers to the group of refined products with lower boiling temperatures, including gasoline and distillates. “light-heavy differential” refers to the price difference between light crude oil and heavy crude oil. “LPG” refers to liquefied petroleum gas. “Maya” refers to Maya crude oil, a heavy, sour crude oil characterized by an API gravity of approximately 22° and a sulfur content of approximately 3.3 weight percent that is used as a benchmark for other heavy crude oils. “MLP” refers to master limited partnership. “MMbbls” refers to an abbreviation for million barrels. “MMBTU” refers to million British thermal units. “MMSCFD” refers to million standard cubic feet per day. 16 Table of Contents “MSCG” refers to Morgan Stanley Capital Group Inc. “MW” refers to Megawatt. “Nelson Complexity Index” refers to the complexity of an oil refinery as measured by the Nelson Complexity Index, which is calculated on an annual basis by the Oil and Gas Journal. The Nelson Complexity Index assigns a complexity factor to each major piece of refinery equipment based on its complexity and cost in comparison to crude distillation, which is assigned a complexity factor of 1.0. The complexity of each piece of refinery equipment is then calculated by multiplying its complexity factor by its throughput ratio as a percentage of crude distillation capacity. Adding up the complexity values assigned to each piece of equipment, including crude distillation, determines a refinery’s complexity on the Nelson Complexity Index. A refinery with a complexity of 10.0 on the Nelson Complexity Index is considered ten times more complex than crude distillation for the same amount of throughput. “NYH” refers to the New York Harbor market value of petroleum products. “Platts” refers to Platts, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies. “PPM” refers to parts per million. “refined products” refers to petroleum products, such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, that are produced by a refinery. “sour crude oil” refers to a crude oil that is relatively high in sulfur content, requiring additional processing to remove the sulfur. Sour crude oil is typically less expensive than sweet crude oil. “Sunoco” refers to Sunoco, Inc. (R&M). “sweet crude oil” refers to a crude oil that is relatively low in sulfur content, requiring less processing to remove the sulfur than sour crude oil. Sweet crude oil is typically more expensive than sour crude oil. “Syncrude” refers to a blend of Canadian synthetic oil, a light, sweet crude oil, typically characterized by an API gravity between 30° and 32° and a sulfur content of approximately 0.1-0.2 weight percent. “throughput” refers to the volume processed through a unit or refinery. “turnaround” refers to a periodically required shutdown and comprehensive maintenance event to refurbish and maintain a refinery unit or units that involves the inspection of such units and occurs generally on a periodic cycle. “ULSD” refers to ultra-low-sulfur diesel. “WCS” refers to Western Canadian Select, a heavy, sour crude oil blend typically characterized by an API gravity between 20° and 22° and a sulfur content of approximately 3.5 weight percent that is used as a benchmark for heavy Western Canadian crude oil. “WTI” refers to West Texas Intermediate crude oil, a light, sweet crude oil, typically characterized by an API gravity between 38° and 40° and a sulfur content of approximately 0.3 weight percent that is used as a benchmark for other crude oils. “WTS” refers to West Texas Sour crude oil, a sour crude oil characterized by an API gravity between 30° and 33° and a sulfur content of approximately 1.28 weight percent that is used as a benchmark for other sour crude oils. “yield” refers to the percentage of refined products that is produced from crude oil and other feedstocks. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry You should carefully read the risks and uncertainties described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our Class A common stock could fall. We have incurred losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. If we incur losses over an extended period of time, the value of our Class A common stock could decline. We experienced losses during our time as a development company and certain periods thereafter. We may not be profitable in future periods. A lack of profitability could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. We may not continue to remain profitable, which could impair our ability to complete future financings and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. If we are unsuccessful in executing our business model, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We were formed in March 2008, we acquired our first oil refinery in June 2010 in an idle state and we acquired our first operating asset in December 2010. Therefore, we have a limited operating history and track record in executing our business model. Our future success depends on our ability to execute our business strategy effectively. Our limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We may not be successful in operating any of our refineries or any other properties we may acquire in the future. In addition, we have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by new companies, and specifically companies in the oil refining industry. If we do not manage these risks successfully, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. The price volatility of crude oil, other feedstocks, blendstocks, refined products and fuel and utility services may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, cash flows and liquidity. Our revenues, profitability, cash flows and liquidity from operations depend primarily on the margin above operating expenses (including the cost of refinery feedstocks, such as crude oil, intermediate partially refined petroleum products, and natural gas liquids that are processed and blended into refined products) at which we are able to sell refined products. Refining is primarily a margin-based business and, to increase profitability, it is important to maximize the yields of high value finished products while minimizing the costs of feedstock and operating expenses. When the margin between refined product prices and crude oil and other feedstock costs contracts, our earnings, profitability and cash flows are negatively affected. Refining margins historically have been volatile, and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of a variety of factors, including fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, refined products and fuel and utility services. An increase or decrease in the price of crude oil will likely result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products; however, there may be a time lag in the realization, or no such realization, of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. The effect of changes in crude oil prices on our refining margins therefore depends in part on how quickly and how fully refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. In addition, the nature of our business requires us to maintain substantial crude oil, feedstock and refined product inventories. Because crude oil, feedstock and refined products are commodities, we have no control over the changing market value of these inventories. Our crude oil, feedstock and refined product inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value under the last-in-first-out (“LIFO”) inventory valuation methodology. If the market value of our crude oil, feedstock and refined product inventories were to decline to an amount less than our LIFO cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of sales. 18 Table of Contents Prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, blendstocks, and refined products depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the supply of and demand for crude oil, other feedstocks, gasoline, diesel, ethanol, asphalt and other refined products. Such supply and demand are affected by a variety of economic, market, environmental and political conditions. Our direct operating expense structure also impacts our profitability. Our major direct operating expenses include employee and contract labor, maintenance and energy. Our predominant variable direct operating cost is energy, which is comprised primarily of fuel and other utility services. The volatility in costs of fuel, principally natural gas, and other utility services, principally electricity, used by our refineries and other operations affect our operating costs. Fuel and utility prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by factors outside our control, such as supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. Natural gas prices have historically been volatile and, typically, electricity prices fluctuate with natural gas prices. Future increases in fuel and utility prices may have a negative effect on our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Our historical financial statements may not be helpful in predicting our future performance. We have grown rapidly since our inception and have not owned or operated our refineries for a substantial period of time. Accordingly, our historical financial information may not be useful either as a means of understanding our current financial situation or as an indicator of our future results. For the period from March 1, 2008 to December 16, 2010, we were considered to be in the development stage. Our historical financial information for that period reflects our activities principally in connection with identifying acquisition opportunities; acquiring the Delaware City refinery assets and commencing a reconfiguration of the refinery; and acquiring the Paulsboro refinery. As a result of the Paulsboro and Toledo acquisitions, our historical consolidated financial results include the results of operations for Paulsboro and Toledo from December 17, 2010 and March 1, 2011 forward, respectively. Certain information in our financial statements and certain other financial data included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based in part on financial data related to, and the operations of, those companies that previously owned and operated our refineries. For example, at the time of its acquisition, Paulsboro represented the major portion of our business and assets. As has been the case in our acquisitions to date, it is likely that, when we acquire refineries, we will not have access to the type of historical financial information that we will report regarding the prior operation of the refineries. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to evaluate the probable impact of major acquisitions on our financial performance until we have operated the acquired refineries for a substantial period of time. Our profitability is affected by crude oil differentials, which fluctuate substantially. A significant portion of our profitability is derived from the ability to purchase and process crude oil feedstocks that historically have been cheaper than benchmark crude oils, such as the heavy, sour crude oils processed at our Delaware City and Paulsboro refineries and the WTI based crude oils processed at our Toledo refinery. These crude oil differentials vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on overall economic conditions and trends and conditions within the markets for crude oil and refined products. Any change in these crude oil differentials may have an impact on our earnings. Our rail investment and strategy to acquire cost advantaged Midcontinent and Canadian crude, which are priced based on WTI, could be adversely affected if the WTI-Brent differential narrows. For example, the WTI/WCS differential, a proxy for the difference between light U.S. and heavy Canadian crudes, has increased from $15.63 per barrel in 2011 to $21.80 per barrel for the year ended December 31, 2012, however, this increase may not be indicative of the differential going forward. Conversely, a narrowing of the light-heavy differential may reduce our refining margins and adversely affect our recent profitability and earnings. In addition, while our Toledo refinery benefits from a widening of the Dated Brent/WTI differential, a narrowing of this differential may result in our Toledo refinery losing a portion of its crude price advantage over certain of our competitors, which negatively impacts our profitability. Divergent views have been expressed as to the expected magnitude of changes to these crude differentials in future periods, including some analysts that expect these crude differentials to contract in upcoming periods. Any narrowing of these differentials could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. 19 Table of Contents Our recent historical earnings have been concentrated and may continue to be concentrated in the future. Our three refineries have similar throughput capacity, however, favorable market conditions due to, among other things, geographic location, crude and refined product slates, and customer demand, may cause an individual refinery to contribute more significantly to our earnings than others for a period of time. For example, our Toledo, Ohio refinery has produced a substantial portion of our earnings over the past several quarters. As a result, if there were a significant disruption to operations at this refinery, our earnings could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) disproportionally to Toledo’s portion of our consolidated throughput. The Toledo refinery, or one of our other refineries, may continue to disproportionally affect our results of operations in the future. Any prolonged disruption to the operations of such refinery, whether due to labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to such facilities, severe weather conditions, interruption of utilities service or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. A significant interruption or casualty loss at any of our refineries and related assets could reduce our production, particularly if not fully covered by our insurance. Failure by one or more insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event could materially and adversely affect our future cash flows, operating results and financial condition. Our business currently consists of owning and operating three refineries and related assets. As a result, our operations could be subject to significant interruption if any of our refineries were to experience a major accident, be damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster, or otherwise be forced to shut down or curtail production due to unforeseen events, such as acts of God, nature, orders of governmental authorities, supply chain disruptions impacting our crude rail facilities or other logistical assets, power outages, acts of terrorism, fires, toxic emissions and maritime hazards. Any such shutdown or disruption would reduce the production from that refinery. There is also risk of mechanical failure and equipment shutdowns both general and following unforeseen events. Further, in such situations, undamaged refinery processing units may be dependent on or interact with damaged sections of our refineries and, accordingly, are also subject to being shut down. In the event any of our refineries is forced to shut down for a significant period of time, it would have a material adverse effect on our earnings, our other results of operations and our financial condition as a whole. As protection against these hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, such potential losses and liabilities. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may increase substantially. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, coverage for hurricane damage can be limited, and coverage for terrorism risks can include broad exclusions. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Our insurance program includes a number of insurance carriers. Significant disruptions in financial markets could lead to a deterioration in the financial condition of many financial institutions, including insurance companies and, therefore, we may not be able to obtain the full amount of our insurance coverage for insured events. Our Toledo refinery is subject to interruptions of supply and distribution as a result of our reliance on pipelines for transportation of crude oil and refined products. Our Toledo refinery receives a substantial portion of its crude oil and delivers a portion of its refined products through pipelines. The Enbridge system is our primary supply route for crude oil from Canada, the Bakken region and Michigan, and supplies approximately 55% to 60% of the crude oil used at our Toledo refinery. In addition, we source domestic crude oil through our connections to the Capline and Mid-Valley pipelines. We also distribute a portion of our transportation fuels through pipelines owned and operated by Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. and Buckeye Partners L.P. We could experience an interruption of supply or delivery, or an increased cost of receiving crude oil and delivering refined products to market, if the ability of 20 Table of Contents these pipelines to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of accidents, weather interruptions, governmental regulation, terrorism, other third party action or any of the types of events described in the preceding risk factor. In addition, due to the common carrier regulatory obligation applicable to interstate oil pipelines, capacity is prorated among shippers in accordance with the tariff then in effect in the event there are nominations in excess of capacity. Therefore, nominations by new shippers or increased nominations by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to us. Any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that we rely upon for transportation of crude oil and refined products could have a further material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may have capital needs for which our internally generated cash flows and other sources of liquidity may not be adequate. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flows or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations (including any earn-outs), or our future debt obligations, comply with certain deadlines related to environmental regulations and standards, or pursue our business strategies, in which case our operations may not perform as we currently expect. We have substantial short-term capital needs and may have substantial long term capital needs. Our short-term working capital needs are primarily related to financing certain of our refined products inventory not covered by our various supply and products offtake agreements. We terminated our agreement with Statoil for our Paulsboro refinery effective March 31, 2013 and our MSCG Offtake Agreements for our Paulsboro and Delaware City refineries effective June 30, 2013. If we cannot adequately handle our crude oil and feedstock requirements without the benefit of the Statoil arrangement at Paulsboro, or if we are required to obtain our crude oil supply at our other refineries without the benefit of the existing supply arrangements or the applicable counterparty defaults in its obligations, our crude oil pricing costs may increase as the number of days between when we pay for the crude oil and when the crude oil is delivered to us increases. Further, if we are not able to market and sell our finished products to credit worthy customers without benefit of the MSCG Offtake Agreements, we may be subject to delays in the collection of our accounts receivable and exposure to additional credit risk. Such increased exposure could negatively impact our liquidity due to our increased working capital needs as a result of the increase in the amount of crude oil inventory and accounts receivable we would have to carry on our balance sheet. Our long-term needs for cash include those to support ongoing capital expenditures for equipment maintenance and upgrades during turnarounds at our refineries and to complete our routine and normally scheduled maintenance, regulatory and security expenditures. In addition, from time to time, we are required to spend significant amounts for repairs when one or more processing units experiences temporary shutdowns. We continue to utilize significant capital to upgrade equipment, improve facilities, and reduce operational, safety and environmental risks. In connection with the Paulsboro acquisition, we assumed certain significant environmental obligations, and may similarly do so in future acquisitions. We will likely incur substantial compliance costs in connection with new or changing environmental, health and safety regulations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition.” Our liquidity will affect our ability to satisfy any of these needs or obligations. We may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile due to a variety of factors, including uncertainty in the financial services sector, low consumer confidence, continued high unemployment, geopolitical issues and the current weak economic conditions. In addition, the fixed income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility that have negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. As a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from those markets diminished significantly. In particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties 21 Table of Contents specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce or, in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due. Moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Competition from companies who produce their own supply feedstocks, have extensive retail outlets, make alternative fuels or have greater financial and other resources than we do could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our refining operations compete with domestic refiners and marketers in regions of the United States in which we operate, as well as with domestic refiners in other regions and foreign refiners that import products into the United States. In addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. Certain of our competitors have larger and more complex refineries, and may be able to realize lower per-barrel costs or higher margins per barrel of throughput. Several of our principal competitors are integrated national or international oil companies that are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do and access to proprietary sources of controlled crude oil production. Unlike these competitors, we obtain substantially all of our feedstocks from unaffiliated sources. We are not engaged in the petroleum exploration and production business and therefore do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. We do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. Because of their integrated operations and larger capitalization, these companies may be more flexible in responding to volatile industry or market conditions, such as shortages of crude oil supply and other feedstocks or intense price fluctuations. Newer or upgraded refineries will often be more efficient than our refineries, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. We have taken significant measures to maintain our refineries including the installation of new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve our operations. However, these actions involve significant uncertainties, since upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels, the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design specifications and modifications may be needed to correct equipment that does not perform as expected. Any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have an adverse effect on future results of operations and financial condition. Over time, our refineries may become obsolete, or be unable to compete, because of the construction of new, more efficient facilities by our competitors. Any political instability, military strikes, sustained military campaigns, terrorist activity, or changes in foreign policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any political instability, military strikes, sustained military campaigns, terrorist activity, or changes in foreign policy in areas or regions of the world where we acquire crude oil and other raw materials or sell our refined petroleum products may affect our business in unpredictable ways, including forcing us to increase security measures and causing disruptions of supplies and distribution markets. We may also be subject to United States trade and economic sanctions laws, which change frequently as a result of foreign policy developments, and which may necessitate changes to our crude oil acquisition activities. Further, like other industrial companies, our facilities may be the target of terrorist activities. Any act of war or terrorism that resulted in damage to any of our refineries or third-party facilities upon which we are dependent for our business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Continued economic turmoil in the global financial system has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the refining industry. Our business and profitability are affected by the overall level of demand for our products, which in turn is affected by factors such as overall levels of economic activity and business and consumer confidence and spending. Declines in global economic activity and consumer and business confidence and spending during the recent global downturn have significantly reduced the level of demand for our products. Reduced demand for our products has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, continued downturns in the economy impact the demand for refined fuels and, in turn, result in excess refining capacity. Refining margins are impacted by changes in domestic and global refining capacity, as increases in refining capacity can adversely impact refining margins, earnings and cash flows. Our business is indirectly exposed to risks faced by our suppliers, customers and other business partners. The impact on these constituencies of the risks posed by the continued economic turmoil in the global financial system have included or could include interruptions or delays in the performance by counterparties to our contracts, reductions and delays in customer purchases, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products and the inability of customers to pay for our products. Any of these events may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The geographic concentration of our East Coast refineries creates a significant exposure to the risks of the local economy and other local adverse conditions. Our East Coast refineries are both located in the mid-Atlantic region on the East Coast and therefore are vulnerable to economic downturns in that region. These refineries are located within a relatively limited geographic area and we primarily market our refined products in that area. As a result, we are more susceptible to regional conditions than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors and any unforeseen events or circumstances that affect the area could also materially adversely affect our revenues and profitability. These factors include, among other things, changes in the economy, damages to infrastructure, weather conditions, demographics and population. We must make substantial capital expenditures on our operating facilities to maintain their reliability and efficiency. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and/or in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of new facilities (or improvements and repairs to our existing facilities and equipment) could adversely affect our ability to achieve targeted internal rates of return and operating results. Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors in the marketplace, many of which are beyond our control, including: • denial or delay in issuing regulatory approvals and/or permits; • unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; • disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials; • severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; • shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; • market-related increases in a project’s debt or equity financing costs; and/or • non-performance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or sub-contractors involved with a project. 23 Table of Contents Our refineries contain many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. Equipment, even if properly maintained, may require significant capital expenditures and expenses to keep it operating at optimum efficiency. One or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnarounds for such units. Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating. Our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals, which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand. Any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our business. If we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Acquisitions that we may undertake in the future involve a number of risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits. We may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. We may selectively consider strategic acquisitions in the future within the refining and mid-stream sector based on performance through the cycle, advantageous access to crude oil supplies, attractive refined products market fundamentals and access to distribution and logistics infrastructure. Our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify acceptable acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth and many other factors beyond our control. Risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to the diversion of management time and attention from our existing business, liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities and greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental, safety or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results, and the incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets. We may also enter into transition services agreements in the future with sellers of any additional refineries we acquire. Such services may not be performed timely and effectively, and any significant disruption in such transition services or unanticipated costs related to such services could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business may suffer if any of our senior executives or other key employees discontinues employment with us. Furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in our labor force may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity. Our future success depends to a large extent on the services of our senior executives and other key employees. Our business depends on our continuing ability to recruit, train and retain highly qualified employees in all areas of our operations, including engineering, accounting, business operations, finance and other key back-office and mid-office personnel. Furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced employees with proficiency in multiple tasks. The competition for these employees is intense, and the loss of these executives or employees could harm our business. If any of these executives or other key personnel resigns or becomes unable to continue in his or her present role and is not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. A portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 295 of our 457 employees at Paulsboro are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in March of 2015. In addition, 652 of our 994 employees at Delaware City and Toledo are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in February of 2015. We may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms or at all when such agreements expire. A 24 Table of Contents failure to do so may increase our costs. Other employees of ours who are not presently represented by a union may become so represented in the future as well. In addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our hedging activities may limit our potential gains, exacerbate potential losses and involve other risks. We may enter into commodity derivatives contracts to hedge our crude price risk or crack spread risk with respect to a portion of our expected gasoline and distillate production on a rolling basis. Consistent with that policy we, or MSCG at our request, may hedge some percentage of future crude supply or gasoline and distillate production. We may enter into hedging arrangements with the intent to secure a minimum fixed cash flow stream on the volume of products hedged during the hedge term and to protect against volatility in commodity prices. Our hedging arrangements may fail to fully achieve these objectives for a variety of reasons, including our failure to have adequate hedging arrangements, if any, in effect at any particular time and the failure of our hedging arrangements to produce the anticipated results. We may not be able to procure adequate hedging arrangements due to a variety of factors. Moreover, such transactions may limit our ability to benefit from favorable changes in crude oil and refined product prices. In addition, our hedging activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • the volumes of our actual use of crude oil or production of the applicable refined products is less than the volumes subject to the hedging arrangement; • accidents, interruptions in feedstock transportation, inclement weather or other events cause unscheduled shutdowns or otherwise adversely affect our refineries, or those of our suppliers or customers; • changes in commodity prices have a material impact on collateral and margin requirements under our hedging arrangements, including resulting in our being subject to margin calls; • the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts the commodity or crack spread subject to the hedging arrangement. As a result, the effectiveness of our hedging strategy could have material impact on our financial results. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” In addition, these hedging activities involve basis risk. Basis risk in a hedging arrangement occurs when the price of the commodity we hedge is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged commodity is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. For example, a NYMEX index used for hedging certain volumes of crude oil or refined products may have more or less variability than the cost or price for such crude oil or refined products. We generally do not expect to hedge the basis risk inherent in our derivatives contracts. Our commodity derivative activities could result in period-to-period earnings volatility. We do not apply hedge accounting to all of our commodity derivative contracts and, as a result, unrealized gains and losses will be charged to our earnings based on the increase or decrease in the market value of the unsettled position. These gains and losses may be reflected in our income statement in periods that differ from when the underlying hedged items (i.e., gross margins) are reflected in our income statement. Such derivative gains or losses in earnings may produce significant period-to-period earnings volatility that is not necessarily reflective of our underlying operational performance. 25 Table of Contents The adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivatives contracts to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The United States Congress in 2010 adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, which, among other things, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. In connection with the Dodd-Frank Act, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC, adopted regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets. Although these regulations were recently vacated by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, the court remanded the matter to the CFTC and the CFTC voted on November 15, 2012 to appeal the District Court’s decision. The legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements, and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements if we do not satisfy certain specific exceptions. The legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivatives contracts to transfer or assign some of their derivatives contracts to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivatives contracts (including through requirements to post collateral), materially alter the terms of derivatives contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivatives contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations. Our operations could be disrupted if our information systems fail, causing increased expenses and loss of sales. Our business is highly dependent on financial, accounting and other data processing systems and other communications and information systems, including our enterprise resource planning tools. We process a large number of transactions on a daily basis and rely upon the proper functioning of computer systems. If a key system was to fail or experience unscheduled downtime for any reason, even if only for a short period, our operations and financial results could be affected adversely. Our systems could be damaged or interrupted by a security breach, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure or similar event. We have a formal disaster recovery plan in place, but this plan may not prevent delays or other complications that could arise from an information systems failure. Further, our business interruption insurance may not compensate us adequately for losses that may occur. Product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Product liability is a significant commercial risk. Substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries and property damage caused by the use of or exposure to various products. Failure of our products to meet required specifications or claims that a product is inherently defective could result in product liability claims from our shippers and customers, and also arise from contaminated or off-specification product in commingled pipelines and storage tanks and/or defective fuels. Product liability claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We may incur significant liability under or costs and capital expenditures to comply with environmental, product specification, health and safety regulations, which are complex and change frequently. Our refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of petroleum and other regulated materials, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, remediation of contaminated sites, characteristics and composition of gasoline and distillates and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. 26 Table of Contents Compliance with the complex array of federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, product specification, health and safety is difficult. We may not be able to operate in compliance with all environmental, product specification, health and safety requirements at all times. Violations of applicable requirements could result in substantial fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions and/or facility shutdowns, or claims for alleged personal injury, property damage or damage to natural resources. Moreover, our business is subject to accidental spills, discharges or other releases of petroleum or other regulated materials into the environment including at neighboring areas or third party storage, treatment or disposal facilities. Certain environmental laws impose strict, and in certain circumstances, joint and several, liability for costs of investigation and cleanup of such spills, discharges or releases on owners and operators of, as well as persons who arrange for treatment or disposal of regulated materials at, contaminated sites. Under these laws, we may be required to pay more than our fair share of any required investigation or cleanup of such sites. We cannot predict what additional environmental, product specification, health and safety legislation or regulations will be adopted in the future, or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. For example, in 2010 New York State adopted a Low-Sulfur Heating Oil mandate that beginning July 1, 2012 requires all heating oil sold in New York State to contain no more than 15 PPM sulfur. Not all of the heating oil we produce meets this specification. In addition, on June 1, 2012, the EPA issued final amendments to the New Source Performance Standards (“NSPS”) for petroleum refineries, including standards for emissions of nitrogen oxides from process heaters and work practice standards and monitoring requirements for flares. We continue to evaluate the regulation and amended standards, as may be applicable to the flare, process heaters and operations at our refineries. We cannot currently predict the costs that we may have to incur, if any, to comply by July 1, 2015 with the amended NSPS, but these costs could be material. Furthermore, the EPA has announced that it plans to propose new “Tier 3” motor vehicle emission and fuel standards. It has been reported that these new Tier 3 regulations may, among other things, lower the maximum average sulfur content of gasoline from 30 PPM to 10 PPM. If the Tier 3 regulations are eventually implemented and lower the maximum allowable content of sulfur or other constituents in fuels that we produce, we may at some point in the future be required to make significant capital expenditures and/or incur materially increased operating costs to comply with the new standards. Expenditures or costs for environmental, product specification, health and safety compliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and profitability. We may also incur liability or be required to pay penalties for past contamination, and third parties may assert claims against us for damages allegedly arising out of any past or future contamination. The potential penalties and clean-up costs for past or future releases or spills, the failure of prior owners of our facilities to complete their clean-up obligations, the liability to third parties for damage to their property, or the need to address newly-discovered information or conditions that may require a response could be significant, and the payment of these amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we operate in environmentally sensitive coastal waters where tanker, pipeline and refined product transportation operations are closely regulated by federal, state and local agencies and monitored by environmental interest groups. Finally, transportation of crude oil and refined products over water involves inherent risk and subjects us to the provisions of the Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and the laws of various states. Among other things, these laws require us to demonstrate in some situations our capacity to respond to a “worst case discharge” to the maximum extent possible. There may be accidents involving tankers transporting crude oil or refined products, and response service companies that we have contracted with, in the areas in which we transport crude oil and refined products, may not respond to a “worst case discharge” in a manner that will adequately contain that discharge, and we may be subject to liability in connection with a discharge. 27 Table of Contents Environmental clean-up and remediation costs of our sites and environmental litigation could decrease our net cash flow, reduce our results of operations and impair our financial condition. We are subject to liability for the investigation and clean-up of environmental contamination at each of the properties that we own or operate and at off-site locations where we arrange for the treatment or disposal of regulated materials. We may become involved in future litigation or other proceedings. If we were to be held responsible for damages in any litigation or proceedings, such costs may not be covered by insurance and may be material. Historical soil and groundwater contamination has been identified at each of our refineries. Currently remediation projects are underway in accordance with regulatory requirements at the Paulsboro and Delaware City refineries. In connection with the acquisitions of our refineries, the prior owners have retained certain liabilities or indemnified us for certain liabilities, including those relating to pre-acquisition soil and groundwater conditions, and in some instances we have assumed certain liabilities and environmental obligations, including certain remediation obligations at the Paulsboro refinery. If the prior owners fail to satisfy their obligations for any reason, or if significant liabilities arise in the areas in which we assumed liability, we may become responsible for remediation expenses and other environmental liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. As a result, in addition to making capital expenditures or incurring other costs to comply with environmental laws, we also may be liable for significant environmental litigation or for investigation and remediation costs and other liabilities arising from the ownership or operation of these assets by prior owners, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Contractual Obligations and Commitments” and “Item 1. Business—Environmental, Health and Safety Matters.” We may also face liability arising from current or future claims alleging personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other regulated materials, such as asbestos, benzene, MTBE and petroleum hydrocarbons, at or from our facilities. We may also face liability for personal injury, property damage, natural resource damage or clean-up costs for the alleged migration of contamination from our properties. A significant increase in the number or success of these claims could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Regulation of emissions of greenhouse gases could force us to incur increased capital and operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Both houses of Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, such as carbon dioxide and methane, including proposals to: (i) establish a cap and trade system, (ii) create a federal renewable energy or “clean” energy standard requiring electric utilities to provide a certain percentage of power from such sources, and (iii) create enhanced incentives for use of renewable energy and increased efficiency in energy supply and use. In addition, the EPA is taking steps to regulate GHGs under the existing federal Clean Air Act, or CAA. The EPA has already adopted regulations limiting emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles, addressing the permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources, and requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources, including refineries. These and similar regulations could require us to incur costs to monitor and report GHG emissions or reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. In addition, various states, individually as well as in some cases on a regional basis, have taken steps to control GHG emissions, including adoption of GHG reporting requirements, cap and trade systems and renewable portfolio standards. Efforts have also been undertaken to delay, limit or prohibit EPA and possibly state action to regulate GHG emissions, and it is not possible at this time to predict the ultimate form, timing or extent of federal or state regulation. In the event we do incur increased costs as a result of increased efforts to control GHG emissions, we may not be able to pass on any of these costs to our customers. Such requirements also could adversely affect demand for the refined petroleum products that we produce. Any increased costs or reduced demand could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operation. 28 Table of Contents Renewable fuels mandates may reduce demand for the refined fuels we produce, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, the EPA has issued Renewable Fuel Standards, or RFS, implementing mandates to blend renewable fuels into the petroleum fuels produced and sold in the United States. Under RFS, the volume of renewable fuels that obligated refineries must blend into their finished petroleum fuels increases annually over time until 2022. In addition, certain states have passed legislation that requires minimum biodiesel blending in finished distillates. On October 13, 2010, the EPA raised the maximum amount of ethanol allowed under federal law from 10% to 15% for cars and light trucks manufactured since 2007. The maximum amount allowed under federal law currently remains at 10% ethanol for all other vehicles. Existing laws and regulations could change, and the minimum volumes of renewable fuels that must be blended with refined petroleum fuels may increase. Because we do not produce renewable fuels, increasing the volume of renewable fuels that must be blended into our products displaces an increasing volume of our refinery’s product pool, potentially resulting in lower earnings and profitability. In addition, in order to meet certain of these and future EPA requirements, we must purchase credits, known as “RINS,” which have fluctuating costs. Our pipelines are subject to federal and/or state regulations, which could reduce the amount of cash we generate. Our transportation activities are subject to regulation by multiple governmental agencies. The regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and affects profitability. Additional proposals and proceedings that affect the oil industry are regularly considered by Congress, the states, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the United States Department of Transportation, and the courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective or what impact such proposals may have. Projected operating costs related to our pipelines reflect the recurring costs resulting from compliance with these regulations, and these costs may increase due to future acquisitions, changes in regulation, changes in use, or discovery of existing but unknown compliance issues. We are subject to strict laws and regulations regarding employee and process safety, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and profitability. We are subject to the requirements of the Occupational Safety & Health Administration, or OSHA, and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, OSHA requires that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that we provide this information to employees, state and local governmental authorities, and local residents. Failure to comply with OSHA requirements, including general industry standards, process safety standards and control of occupational exposure to regulated substances, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and the cash flows of the business if we are subjected to significant fines or compliance costs. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance. We are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal, state, local and foreign taxes such as income, excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, property, gross receipts, withholding and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed that could result in increased expenditures for tax liabilities in the future. These liabilities are subject to periodic audits by the respective taxing authorities, which could increase our tax liabilities. Subsequent changes to our tax liabilities as a result of these audits may also subject us to interest and penalties. There can be no certainty that our federal, state, local or foreign taxes could be passed on to our customers. 29 Table of Contents Our rapid growth may strain our resources and divert management’s attention. We were a development stage enterprise prior to our acquisition of Paulsboro on December 17, 2010. With the further acquisition of Toledo and the re-start of Delaware City, we have experienced rapid growth in a short period of time. Continued expansion may strain our resources and force management to focus attention from other business concerns to the development of incremental internal controls and procedures, which could harm our business and operating results. We may also need to hire more employees, which will increase our costs and expenses. We rely on Statoil and MSCG, over whom we may have limited control, to provide us with certain volumetric and pricing data used in our inventory valuations. We rely on Statoil and MSCG to provide us with certain volumetric and pricing data used in our inventory valuations. Our limited control over the accuracy and the timing of the receipt of this data could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce financial statements in a timely manner. Changes in our credit profile could adversely affect our business. Changes in our credit profile could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms for our purchases or require us to post security or letters of credit prior to payment. Due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. This, in turn, could cause us to be unable to operate one or more of our refineries at full capacity. We could incur substantial costs or disruptions in our business if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits and authorizations. Our operations require numerous permits and authorizations under various laws and regulations, including environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. These authorizations and permits are subject to revocation, renewal or modification and can require operational changes, which may involve significant costs, to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and/or health and safety. A violation of these authorizations or permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions and/or refinery shutdowns. In addition, major modifications of our operations could require changes to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness may significantly affect our financial flexibility in the future. As of December 31, 2012, we have total long-term debt including the Delaware Economic Development Authority Loan, of $730.0 million, all of which is secured, and we could have incurred an additional $599.2 million of senior secured indebtedness under our existing debt agreements. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our strategy includes executing future refinery acquisitions. Any significant acquisition would likely require us to incur additional indebtedness in order to finance all or a portion of such acquisition. The level of our indebtedness has several important consequences for our future operations, including that: • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes; • covenants contained in our existing debt arrangements limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets and make certain investments; 30 Table of Contents • these covenants also require us to meet or maintain certain financial tests, which may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our industry, such as being able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities when they arise; • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and • we may be at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; and we may be more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions. Our substantial indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations, certain of which contain cross-default and/or cross-acceleration provisions. We have significant principal payments due under our debt instruments. Our subsidiaries’ ability to meet their principal obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which in turn will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay our substantial indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may be required to sell assets, to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing. Refinancing may not be possible and additional financing may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Despite our level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt, which could exacerbate the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future including additional secured debt. Although our debt instruments and financing arrangements contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. To the extent new debt is added to our currently anticipated debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described above would increase. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may limit our ability to undertake certain types of transactions. Various covenants in our debt instruments and other financing arrangements may restrict our and our subsidiaries’ financial flexibility in a number of ways. Our indebtedness subjects us to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments and investments, consummate certain asset sales or asset swaps, conduct businesses other than our current businesses, or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Some of these debt instruments also require our subsidiaries to satisfy or maintain certain financial condition tests in certain circumstances. Our subsidiaries’ ability to meet these financial condition tests can be affected by events beyond our control and they may not meet such tests. Provisions in our indenture could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of our indenture could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a “change in control” as defined in the indenture, holders of our notes could require us to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure and Our Class A Common Stock Our only material asset is our interest in PBF LLC. Accordingly, we depend upon distributions from PBF LLC and its subsidiaries to pay our taxes, meet our other obligations and/or pay dividends in the future. We are a holding company and all of our operations are conducted through subsidiaries of PBF Holding. We have no independent means of generating revenue and no material assets other than our ownership interest in PBF LLC. Therefore, we depend on the earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including our indebtedness, tax liabilities and obligations to make payments under the tax receivable agreement. If we or PBF LLC do not receive such cash distributions, dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries, we and PBF LLC may be unable to meet our obligations and/or pay dividends. We intend to cause PBF LLC to make distributions to its members in an amount sufficient to enable us to cover all applicable taxes at assumed tax rates, make payments owed by us under the tax receivable agreement, and to pay other obligations and dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent we need funds and PBF LLC or any of its subsidiaries is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of our financing or other contractual arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, such restrictions could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Our ABL Revolving Credit Facility, senior secured notes and certain of our other outstanding debt arrangements include a restricted payment covenant, which restricts the ability of PBF Holding to make distributions to us, and we anticipate our future debt will contain a similar restriction. In addition, there may be restrictions on payments by our subsidiaries under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. For example, PBF Holding is generally prohibited under Delaware law from making a distribution to a member to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, liabilities of the limited liability company (with certain exceptions) exceed the fair value of its assets. As a result, we may be unable to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligations and make payments to our stockholders, if any. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules. As a result, we qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Blackstone and First Reserve control a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that we have a corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (3) the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (4) the requirement that there be an annual performance evaluation of the corporate governance and compensation committees. We utilize certain of these exemptions. Accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract our management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. We are implementing additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public 32 Table of Contents companies. In addition, sustaining our growth also will require us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources to identify new professionals to join our firm and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. These activities may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We expect to incur significant additional annual expenses related to these steps and other public company expenses. Our internal controls over financial reporting have not been audited and may not meet all of the standards contemplated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and Class A common stock price. Beginning with the year ending December 31, 2013, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting, and our auditors will be required to deliver an attestation report on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report by our management must contain, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. As an organization that recently exited the development stage and has grown rapidly through the acquisition of significant operations, we are currently in the process of developing our internal controls over financial reporting and establishing formal policies, processes and practices related to financial reporting and to the identification of key financial reporting risks, assessment of their potential impact and linkage of those risks to specific areas and activities within our organization. Our internal controls over financial reporting have not been audited and we may not meet all of the standards contemplated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that we will eventually be required to meet. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements during 2012, we identified significant deficiencies regarding the design and implementation of certain commercial transaction controls and management review controls as part of our financial closing process. Management continues to take steps to remediate these issues. We retained a nationally recognized certified public accounting firm to assist us with designing, documenting and implementing our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In addition, we intend to hire a Director of Internal Audit and continue to invest in information technology systems in order to support and enhance our internal control environment. We may not be able to successfully remediate these matters on or before December 31, 2013, the date by which we must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and we may have additional deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future. We have not yet determined the costs directly associated with these remediation activities, but they could be substantial. If we are not able to complete our initial assessment of our internal controls and otherwise implement the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, management may not be able to certify as to the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules, and result in a breach of the covenants under our debt agreements. There also could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements also could suffer if our independent registered public accounting firm were to report a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting in the future. This could materially adversely affect us and lead to a decline in our Class A common stock price. 33 Table of Contents We are controlled by Blackstone and First Reserve through their ownership of units of PBF LLC, and their interests may differ from those of our public stockholders. We are controlled by Blackstone and First Reserve, who collectively beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 70.2% of the combined voting power of our common stock. As a result, Blackstone and First Reserve have the ability to elect all of our directors and thereby control our policies and operations, including the appointment of management, future issuances of securities, the incurrence of debt by us, amendments to our organizational documents and the entering into of extraordinary transactions, and their interests may not in all cases be aligned with our Class A common stockholders’ interests. For example, the pre-IPO owners of PBF LLC may have different tax positions which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, whether and when to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the tax receivable agreement described below. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration these tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to our Class A common stockholders or us. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Blackstone and First Reserve may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to our Class A common stockholders. For example, they could cause us to make acquisitions that increase our indebtedness or to sell revenue-generating assets. So long as they continue to beneficially own a majority of the combined voting power of us and PBF LLC, they will have the ability to control the vote in any election of directors. In addition, pursuant to the stockholders agreement we entered into with Blackstone and First Reserve, Blackstone and First Reserve have the ability to nominate a number of our directors, including a majority of our directors, so long as certain ownership thresholds are maintained. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company. Lastly, Blackstone and First Reserve are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities identified by Blackstone or First Reserve. They may also pursue acquisition opportunities that are complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. We will be required to pay the holders of PBF LLC Series A Units for certain tax benefits we may claim arising in connection with our initial public offering and future exchanges of PBF LLC Series A Units for shares of our Class A Common Stock and related transactions, and the amounts we may pay could be significant. In connection with our initial public offering, we entered into a tax receivable agreement that provides for the payment from time to time by PBF Energy to the holders of PBF LLC Series A Units of 85% of the benefits, if any, that PBF Energy is deemed to realize as a result of (i) the increases in tax basis resulting from its acquisitions of PBF LLC Series A Units in connection with our initial public offering or in the future and (ii) certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” We expect that the payments that we may make under the tax receivable agreement will be substantial. Assuming no material changes in the relevant tax law, and that we earn sufficient taxable income to realize all tax benefits that are subject to the tax receivable agreement, we expect future payments under the tax receivable agreement relating to the purchase by PBF Energy of PBF LLC Series A Units as part of our initial public offering to aggregate approximately $160.0 million and to range over the next 5 years from approximately $1.0 million to $18.1 million per year and decline thereafter. Future payments by us in respect of subsequent 34 Table of Contents exchanges of PBF LLC Series A Units would be in addition to these amounts and are expected to be substantial as well. The foregoing numbers are merely estimates based on assumptions that are subject to change due to various factors, including, among other factors, the timing when the pre-IPO owners of PBF LLC exchange their PBF LLC Series A Units for shares of PBF Energy’s Class A common stock as contemplated by the tax receivable agreement, the price of PBF Energy’s Class A common stock at the time of such exchanges, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, and the amount and timing of PBF Energy’s income. The actual payments could differ materially. It is possible that future transactions or events could increase or decrease the actual tax benefits realized and the corresponding tax receivable agreement payments. There may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if, as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise, (i) the payments under the tax receivable agreement exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement, and/or (ii) distributions to PBF Energy by PBF LLC are not sufficient to permit PBF Energy to make payments under the tax receivable agreement after it has paid its taxes and other obligations. The payments under the tax receivable agreement are not conditioned upon any recipient’s continued ownership of us. In certain cases, payments by us under the tax receivable agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement. These provisions may deter a change in control of our Company. The tax receivable agreement provides that upon certain changes of control, or if, at any time, PBF Energy elects an early termination of the tax receivable agreement, PBF Energy’s (or its successor’s) obligations with respect to exchanged or acquired PBF LLC Series A Units (whether exchanged or acquired before or after such transaction) would be based on certain assumptions, including (i) that PBF Energy would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement and (ii) that the subsidiaries of PBF LLC will sell certain nonamortizable assets (and realize certain related tax benefits) no later than a specified date. Moreover, in each of these instances, we would be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value (at a discount rate equal to LIBOR plus 100 basis points) of the anticipated future tax benefits (based on the foregoing assumptions). Accordingly, payments under the tax receivable agreement may be made years in advance of the actual realization, if any, of the anticipated future tax benefits and may be significantly greater than the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement. Assuming that the market value of a share of our Class A common stock equals $29.05 per share of Class A common stock (the closing price on December 31, 2012) and that LIBOR were to be 1.85%, we estimate as of December 31, 2012 that the aggregate amount of these accelerated payments would have been approximately $716.0 million if triggered immediately on such date. In these situations, our obligations under the tax receivable agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. We may not be able to finance our obligations under the tax receivable agreement and our existing indebtedness may limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions to us to pay these obligations. These provisions may deter a potential sale of our Company to a third party and may otherwise make it less likely a third party would enter into a change of control transaction with us. Moreover, payments under the tax receivable agreement will be based on the tax reporting positions that we determine in accordance with the tax receivable agreement. We will not be reimbursed for any payments previously made under the tax receivable agreement if the Internal Revenue Service subsequently disallows part or all of the tax benefits that gave rise to such prior payments. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the tax receivable agreement that are significantly in excess of the benefits that we actually realize in respect of (i) the increases in tax basis resulting from our purchases or exchanges of PBF LLC Series A Units and (ii) certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. 35 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will continue to declare dividends or have the available cash to make dividend payments. Although we currently intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our Class A common stock, the declaration, amount and payment of any dividends will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors. We are not obligated under any applicable laws, our governing documents or any contractual agreements with our existing owners or otherwise to declare or pay any dividends or other distributions (other than the obligations of PBF LLC to make tax distributions to its members). Our board of directors may take into account, among other things, general economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, plans for expansion, tax, legal, regulatory and contractual restrictions and implications, including under our outstanding debt documents, and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant in determining whether to declare or pay any dividend. Because PBF Energy is a holding company with no material assets (other than the equity interests of its direct subsidiary), its cash flow and ability to pay dividends is dependent upon the financial results and cash flows of its direct subsidiary PBF Holding and its operating subsidiaries and the distribution or other payment of cash to it in the form of dividends or otherwise. The direct and indirect subsidiaries of PBF Energy are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to make any funds available to it. As a result, if we do not declare or pay dividends you may not receive any return on an investment in our Class A common stock unless you sell our Class A common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. Anti-takeover and certain other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage or delay a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. Among other things, these provisions: • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent after the date on which Blackstone and First Reserve collectively cease to beneficially own at least a majority of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; • restrict certain business combinations with stockholders who obtain beneficial ownership of a certain percentage of our outstanding common stock after the date Blackstone and First Reserve and their affiliates collectively cease to beneficially own at least 5% of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; • provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or the board of directors, or Blackstone or First Reserve, for so long as Blackstone or First Reserve, in its individual capacity as the party calling the meeting, continues to beneficially own at least 25% of the total voting power of all the then outstanding shares of our capital stock, and establish advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates for election as directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; and • provide that on and after the date Blackstone and First Reserve collectively cease to beneficially own a majority of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote, our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 75% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions of Delaware law may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company. Certain provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A common stock. 36 Table of Contents In addition, in connection with our initial public offering, we entered into a stockholders agreement with Blackstone and First Reserve pursuant to which they will each be entitled to nominate a number of directors so long as certain ownership thresholds are maintained. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations due to a number of factors including: • variations in actual or anticipated operating results or dividends, if any, to stockholders; • changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates of securities analysts; • market conditions in the oil refining industry; • litigation and government investigations; • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations or enforcement thereof affecting our business or industry; • general economic and stock market conditions; and • the availability for sale, or sales, of a significant number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market. These and other factors may cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decrease significantly, which in turn would adversely affect the value of your investment. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade their recommendations regarding our Class A common stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our Class A common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our Class A common stock price may decline. If analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our Class A common stock price or trading volume to decline and our Class A common stock to be less liquid. Shares of our Class A common stock price may decline due to the large number of shares of Class A common stock eligible for future sale and future issuance and for exchange. The market price of shares of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell shares of Class A common stock in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. In addition, any shares of Class A common stock that we issue, including under any equity incentive plans, would dilute the percentage ownership of the holders of our Class A common stock. In connection with our initial public offering, we, our executive officers and directors and Blackstone and First Reserve agreed with the underwriters, subject to certain exceptions, not to sell, dispose of or hedge any of 37 Table of Contents our Class A common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Class A common stock until May 2013, except with the prior written consent of the underwriters. We are required to register the issuance and resale of the shares of Class A common stock that may be issued to our existing owners pursuant to the exchange agreement after the expiration of the lock-up period (or any earlier waiver by the underwriters). These shares also may be sold under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, depending on the holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates. As restrictions on resale end or if we register additional shares, the market price of our stock could decline if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 