Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factors Relating to Commodities Markets The value of the Shares depends on the value of Index Futures, which will fluctuate based on the prices of commodity futures contracts reflected in the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI. These prices may be volatile, thereby creating the potential for losses regardless of the length of time you intend to hold your Shares. Because the price of the Shares will depend on the value of the Index Futures held by the Trust, the value of the Shares will fluctuate based on the prices of commodity futures contracts reflected in the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI. Although the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI only has a limited performance history, the value of the DJ-UBS CI, which is composed of the same underlying commodities as the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI, has been volatile at times during the past several years. Commodity prices are generally affected by, among other factors, the cost of producing, transporting and storing commodities, changes in consumer or commercial demand for commodities, the hedging and trading strategies of producers and consumers of commodities, speculative trading in commodities by commodity pools and other market participants, disruptions in commodity supply, weather, political and other global events, global economic factors and government intervention in or regulation of the commodity or commodity futures markets. These factors cannot be controlled by the Trust. Accordingly, the price of the Shares could change substantially and in a rapid and unpredictable manner. This exposes you to a potential loss on your investment in the Shares, regardless of the length of time you intend to hold your Shares. The following events, among others, would generally result in a decline in the price of the Shares: ● A significant increase in hedging activity by producers of the underlying commodities. Should producers of the commodities underlying the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI increase their hedging of their future production through forward sales or other short positions, this increased selling pressure could depress the price of one or more of the underlying commodities, which could adversely affect the price of the Shares. ● A significant change in the attitude of speculators and investors toward the futures contracts or commodities underlying the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI. Should the speculative community take a negative view towards one or more of the underlying futures contracts or commodities, it could cause a decline in the price of the Index Futures, which may reduce the price of the Shares. ● Significant reductions in the size of positions permitted to be owned by the Trust or others in Index Futures or in the futures contracts and/or commodities comprising the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI, for example, as a result of more restrictive position limits or position limit exemptions or more expansive position aggregation requirements, could reduce liquidity and depress the price of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and/or the futures contracts or commodities underlying the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI, adversely affecting the value of your Shares. Conversely, several factors could trigger a temporary increase in the price of the futures contracts or commodities underlying the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and, consequently, the Index Futures. In that case, you could buy Shares at prices affected by the temporarily high commodity prices, and you could subsequently incur losses when the causes for the temporary increase disappear. 15 Table Of Contents Historical performance of the Index, the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and the DJ-UBS CI is no guide to their future performance or to the performance of the Shares. Past performance of the Index, the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and the DJ-UBS CI is not necessarily indicative of their future performance or of the performance of the Shares. There can be no guarantee that the level of the Index, the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI or the DJ-UBS CI will increase. The DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and the Index have limited performance histories. Although the DJ-UBS CI, which is based on the same underlying commodities as the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and the Index, has a longer performance history, there are differences in the way that the DJ-UBS CI and the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI address the rolling of contracts that could cause the DJ-UBS CI to perform differently from the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and the Index. You may lose some or all of your investment in the Shares. Commodity futures trading may be illiquid. In addition, suspensions or disruptions of market trading in the commodities markets and related futures markets may adversely affect the value of your Shares. The commodity futures markets are subject to temporary distortions or other disruptions due to various factors, including the lack of liquidity, congestion, disorderly markets, limitations on deliverable supplies, the participation of speculators, government regulation and intervention, technical and operational or system failures, nuclear accidents, terrorism, riots and acts of God. In addition, U.S. futures exchanges and some foreign exchanges have regulations that limit the amount of fluctuation in futures contract prices that may occur during a single business day. These limits are generally referred to as “daily price fluctuation limits,” and the maximum or minimum price of a contract on any given day as a result of these limits is referred to as a “limit price.” Once the limit price has been reached in a particular contract, it is possible that no trades may be made at a different price. It is not certain how long any such price limits would remain in effect. Limit prices may have the effect of precluding trading in a particular contract or forcing the liquidation of contracts at disadvantageous times or prices, consequently affecting the value of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI. Further, the Clearing FCM or its account holders may represent, directly or indirectly, a substantial portion of the short-side interest in the Index Futures market. The existence of a limited number of market participants could cause or exacerbate temporary distortions, especially those distortions that result from illiquidity. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect the value of the Index Futures held by the Trust and, therefore, the value of your Shares. In addition, these circumstances could also limit trading in the Index Futures, which could affect the NAV and the trading price of the Shares. Accordingly, these limits may result in a NAV that differs, and may differ significantly, from the NAV that would prevail in the absence of such limits. If Baskets are created or redeemed at a time when these price limits are in effect, the creation or redemption price will reflect the price limits as well. Additionally, if UBS Securities determines that a market disruption exists during a roll period or during the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI’s annual rebalancing, this will affect the way in which the roll is conducted or how the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI is rebalanced, generally by making the calculations and determinations that would otherwise have been made on such date on an alternative date on which no such market disruption exists. Market disruptions may include, among others: (1) the termination or suspension of, or material limitation or disruption in, the trading of an underlying futures contract, (2) the settlement price of an underlying futures contract reflecting the maximum permitted price change from the previous day’s settlement price for such contract, (3) the failure of an exchange to publish the official settlement price of an underlying futures contract, or (4) for contracts traded on the London Metals Exchange, any day on which the London Metals Exchange is not open for business. Market disruptions will only affect the timing of calculations for the affected commodity in connection with roll periods, but will affect the timing of calculations for all commodities if it occurs in connection with a rebalancing. Market disruptions may adversely affect the value of the Index Futures and the value of your Shares. During a period when commodity prices are fairly stationary, an absence of “backwardation” in the prices of the commodities included in the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI may cause the price of your Shares to decrease. The futures contracts that underlie the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI are replaced from time to time with new futures contracts on the same commodities. This process is referred to as “rolling.” Although the rolling methodology employed by the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI, which selects for replacement contracts exhibiting the least contango or the greatest backwardation, may on occasion cause futures contracts to be replaced by new futures contracts with earlier, rather than later, delivery months, it is expected that the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI will still tend to roll into futures contracts with later delivery months than the contracts being replaced. 16 Table Of Contents Historically, the prices of some futures contracts (generally those relating to commodities that are typically consumed immediately rather than stored) have frequently been higher for contracts with shorter-term expirations than for contracts with longer-term expirations, which is referred to as “backwardation.” In these circumstances, absent other factors, the sale of the earlier contract would take place at a price that is higher than the price at which the later contract is purchased, thereby allowing the contract holder to purchase a greater quantity of the later contract. While some of the contracts included in the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI have historically exhibited periods of backwardation, backwardation will likely not exist at all times. Moreover, some of the commodities reflected in the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI have historically exhibited characteristics typical of “contango” markets rather than backwardation. Contango markets are those in which the prices of contracts are higher in the distant delivery months than in the nearer delivery months due to the costs of long-term storage of a physical commodity prior to delivery or other factors. The forward price of a commodity futures contract may also fluctuate between backwardation and contango. Although the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI attempts to mitigate some of the losses that may arise from the absence of backwardation or the existence of contango through its rolling process, the absence of backwardation or the existence of contango in the commodity markets could nevertheless result in losses, which could adversely affect the value of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and, accordingly, decrease the value of your Shares. Moreover, because the Trust must pay certain ongoing fees and expenses, the value of the Shares may decrease even in periods where commodity prices are otherwise stationary. Regulatory developments with respect to the futures and over-the-counter derivatives markets, and in particular, with respect to speculative trading in futures contracts and over-the-counter derivatives involving commodities and commodity indices, could adversely affect the value of your Shares. In recent years, many bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress targeting excessive speculation in commodities and commodity indices, including by institutional “index funds,” on regulated futures markets and in the over-the-counter or “OTC” derivatives markets. Many of these legislative proposals have not been enacted but could be in the future. In 2010, Congress adopted some anti-speculative proposals in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the “Dodd-Frank Act.” These provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have been interpreted by the CFTC to require the CFTC to expand its speculative position limits, as appropriate, to a wider range of listed futures and options on physical commodities (including certain energy, metals and agricultural products) as well as to economically equivalent swaps while significantly narrowing the bona fide hedging exemptions to a narrower category of commercial market participants and physical hedging strategies. Pursuant to the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act described above, the CFTC proposed regulations in November 2013, referred to in this report as the “Proposed Position Limits Rules,” that impose new federal position limits on futures and options on a subset of “reference contracts” consisting of contracts on energy, metal, and agricultural commodities and economically equivalent swaps. The Proposed Position Limits Rules would include as reference contracts a number of the futures contracts included in the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and as of the date of this report, such contracts represent a substantial portion of the weight of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI. Consequently, if the Proposed Position Limits Rules are adopted as proposed, the maximum positions that market participants can hold in the reference contracts that underlie the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI may be limited, which could reduce the liquidity of such reference contracts and adversely affect the performance of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and the value of your Shares. Moreover, because the relative weights of the commodities in the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI are largely determined based on the trading volume of the futures contracts designated for such commodities, a reduction in the trading volume of such futures contracts could significantly alter the weights of the futures contracts underlying the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI, which could have further adverse effects on the level of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and the value of your Shares. The Proposed Position Limits Rules would also expand the circumstances requiring persons to aggregate reference contracts that are owned or controlled by such persons. Specifically, the Proposed Position Limits Rules would require a person holding positions in multiple commodity pools with substantially identical trading strategies to aggregate the pools’ positions in reference contracts with other positions in reference contracts held or controlled by such person. Although Index Futures are not among the reference contracts identified in the Proposed Position Limits Rules, if federal position limits are extended to Index Futures or if the Exchange adopts similar aggregation rules, some participants in the market for Index Futures may be encumbered in trying to hedge their exposure, which could reduce liquidity in such Index Futures and the futures contracts and commodities underlying the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and adversely affect the value of the Shares. 17 Table Of Contents The Proposed Position Limits Rules would also narrow the existing bona fide hedge exemption for reference contracts. If adopted as proposed, this narrow definition may affect the hedging and investing activities of participants in the markets for the Index Futures and the futures contracts and commodities underlying the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI, which in turn could reduce the liquidity and adversely affect the pricing of the Index Futures and such futures contracts and commodities. Any of these effects could increase volatility in and otherwise adversely affect the price of the Shares. In addition to the Proposed Position Limits Rules, the CFTC may lower the applicable position limits, apply position limits to a broader range of contracts (including commodity index contracts such as the Index Futures) or further restrict position limit exemptions. If any of these actions is taken, such measures could further reduce the size of positions that the Trust and other investors could hold directly in Index Futures and the underlying futures contracts and commodities, with potential reductions in liquidity and adverse effects on the pricing of Index Futures. Certain other rules proposed pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act also may have an impact on the Trust and the value and continued availability of the Shares. On December 22, 2010, the CFTC proposed rules, referred to in this report as the “DCM Proposed Rules,” that would require that at least 85% of the total volume of any contract listed on a “designated contract market,” or “DCM,” including the Index Futures, be executed through the central order book, rather than as a block transaction or other non-competitively executed transaction. Contracts that do not meet the 85% threshold would be required to be delisted by the DCM and transferred to a swap execution facility or liquidated. Generally, the Trust’s transactions in Index Futures are expected to be executed through block or “exchange for related positions” or “EFRP” transactions that are not executed through the Exchange’s central order book. While subject to revision by the CFTC in response to public comment, this provision of the DCM Proposed Rules could, if adopted as proposed, significantly and adversely affect the availability, liquidity and price of Index Futures, as well as futures contracts currently included or which may in the future be included in the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI, and could inhibit the Trust’s ability to redeem and offer Shares, which in turn could adversely affect the value and continued availability of the Shares. The CFTC has adopted rules regarding the risk management practices of clearing members, referred to in this report as the “FCM Rules,” most of which became effective on June 1, 2013. The FCM Rules require the Clearing FCM to establish, and periodically reevaluate, risk-based limits on position and order size, amongst other measures. The FCM Rules may lead the Clearing FCM to reduce its internal limits on the size of the Index Future positions it will execute or clear for the Trust, reducing the Trust’s and other market participants’ ability to transact in Index Futures, and potentially adversely affecting the price of Shares. In the event that the Clearing FCM does reduce its internal limits on the size of Index Future positions, the Trust may deem it feasible to use additional clearing futures commission merchants. If this happens, it could substantially increase the costs of clearing for the Trust. Other regulatory measures under the Dodd-Frank Act could increase the costs of the Trust, result in significant direct limitations on the maximum permitted size of the Trust’s futures positions, or affect liquidity in the market for the Index Futures or the underlying futures contracts, as well as the correlation between the price of the Shares and the net asset value of the Trust. Any such measures could adversely affect the value of your Shares. Risk Factors Relating to Index Futures and the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI The trading of various Index Futures presents risks unrelated to the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI that could adversely affect the value of your Shares. Although Index Futures are based on the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI, the value of the Index Futures could be affected by factors that do not directly affect the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and accordingly, the value of the Index Futures and the level of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI may vary from each other. The activities of market participants in trading Index Futures, or in trading other instruments related to the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI, could affect the value of the Index Futures independent of any change in the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and adversely affect the correlation between the value of the Index Futures and the level of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI. 18 Table Of Contents The prices of the various Index Futures are expected to reflect supply and demand in the market for such Index Futures, which in turn may reflect market expectations at any given time about prospective changes in the level of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and other market conditions. In this way, trading in the market for an Index Future might cause a divergence between the price of such Index Future and the level of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI. Similarly, actions by the applicable Exchange with respect to Index Futures, such as the imposition of trading or price limits, could adversely affect this correlation. In these circumstances, it is possible that changes in the NAV, which is calculated based on the value of the Index Futures, will not adequately reflect changes in the level of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI. In the event of market disruptions with respect to the Index Futures, such as a suspension of trading by the Exchange as a result of market activity, systems or communications failures or other causes, the value of the Index Futures and the level of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI could diverge, which could adversely affect the value of the Shares. Although arbitrage activity by market participants is expected to have the effect of reducing or mitigating divergence between the value of the Index Futures and the level of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI, such arbitrage activity may not fully offset any divergence at all times during which the Shares are outstanding. During any period the Trust is trading Index Futures of more than one type, differences in the settlement values of such Index Futures, to the extent not offset by arbitrage activity between such Index Futures may limit the expected benefits of, or otherwise adversely affect, arbitrage activity between the Shares and the Index Futures. In the event that any such divergence between the value of the Index Futures and the level of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI exists from time to time, changes in the NAV, which is calculated based on the value of the Index Futures, may not adequately reflect changes in the level of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI, which could adversely affect the value of the Shares. The impact of certain of these considerations may be heightened in cases where the Trust’s positions are concentrated in a particular Index Future or in cases where the Trust represents a substantial portion of the open interest in a particular Index Future. In addition, other actions taken by an Exchange, including rule changes relating to clearing fees, margin requirements, or the minimum price fluctuations applicable to an Index Future, may result in economic, tax or other consequences to market participants that trade or hold Index Futures. Such actions may result in consequences that adversely affect Shareholders without necessarily affecting the correlation between the settlement price of the Index Futures and the level of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI. The Index and the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI have limited history and may perform in unexpected ways. The Index and the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI began publishing on July 18, 2011, and therefore have limited histories. Hypothetical historical performance data is provided under “The Index, the DJ-UBS CI and the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI” to illustrate how each of the Index and the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI may have performed had it been created in the past, but those calculations are subject to many limitations. Unlike actual historical performance, such calculations do not reflect actual trading, liquidity constraints, fees and other costs. In addition, the models used to calculate these hypothetical returns are based on certain data, assumptions and estimates. Different models or models using different data assumptions and estimates might result in materially different hypothetical performance. The roll selection methodology of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI may not provide any benefits relative to the roll selection methodologies used by other commodities indices, including the DJ-UBS CI, and the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI may not outperform, or may underperform, the DJ-UBS CI. As described further under “The Index, the DJ-UBS CI and the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI,” the process through which the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI rolls contracts of one delivery month into contracts of a new delivery month differs from the process used by the DJ-UBS CI. Unlike the DJ-UBS CI, which rolls into contracts of a predetermined delivery month, the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI rolls into contracts that demonstrate the least contango or, if applicable, the most backwardation, in each case relative to the contracts of the immediately preceding delivery month. This determination is made on the “contract selection date,” which is generally the fourth business day of every month. The price at which a futures contract of a specified delivery date is trading on a contract selection date is expected to reflect the market’s outlook with respect to the performance of a contract with the specified delivery date. In certain circumstances, the market outlook with respect to the underlying commodities may cause futures contracts of a particular delivery date to trade at higher or lower prices relative to futures contracts for the same underlying commodity with a different delivery date based upon expectations regarding the price on such delivery date. These expectations may be based on factors that do not affect futures contracts of different delivery dates in the same way, such as seasonal fluctuations based on supply and demand. Accordingly, the price at which a futures contract trades relative to a futures contract with an immediately preceding delivery date may not necessarily be reflective of the effect of backwardation or contango that will be realized from rolling such futures contract. It is possible that, for a given time period, the futures contracts selected for inclusion in the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI may not outperform, and may underperform, the futures contracts selected for inclusion in the DJ-UBS CI. 19 Table Of Contents The DJ-UBS Roll Select CI may in the future include contracts that are not traded on regulated futures exchanges and that offer different or diminished protections to investors. Currently, the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI is comprised exclusively of futures contracts traded on DCMs, or regulated futures exchanges. The DJ-UBS Roll Select CI may in the future include contracts (such as swaps and forward contracts) traded in the over-the-counter market or on trading facilities that are subject to lesser degrees of regulation or, in some cases, no substantive regulation. As a result, trading in such contracts, and the manner in which prices and volumes are reported by the relevant trading facilities, may not be subject to the same provisions of, and the protections afforded by, the CEA or other applicable statutes and related regulations that govern trading on regulated futures exchanges. In addition, many electronic trading facilities have only recently initiated trading and do not have significant trading histories. As a result, the trading of contracts on such facilities and the inclusion of such contracts in the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI may be subject to risks not presented by most exchange-traded futures contracts, including risks related to the liquidity and price histories of the relevant contracts. Changes in the composition and valuation of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI may adversely affect your Shares. The composition of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI may change over time as additional commodities satisfy the eligibility criteria or commodities currently included in the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI fail to satisfy those criteria. The weighting factors applied to each commodity included in the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI change annually, based on changes in commodity production statistics and changes in the trading volume of the related futures contracts. In addition, the Index Co-Sponsors may modify the method for determining the composition and weighting of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and for calculating its value. Such changes could adversely affect the value of your Shares. A cessation of publication of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI could materially and adversely affect the activities of the Trust. The DJ-UBS Roll Select CI is administered, calculated and published by the Index Co-Sponsors, who may cease publication of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI at any time. If the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI ceases being published, the Sponsor may determine that no suitable replacement index exists, and the Trust may be liquidated. Futures contracts (including the Index Futures) are not assets with intrinsic value. Trading in futures transfers the risk of future price movements from one market participant to another. This means that for every gain, there is an equal and offsetting loss. Futures contracts themselves (including Index Futures) are not assets with intrinsic value, and simply reflect, in the case of cash-settled contracts, certain rights to payment or obligations to make payments to the other party to the contract, and in the case of physically-settled contracts, such as the futures contracts underlying the Index, an agreement to make or take delivery of a particular asset at a specified price. Accordingly, market participants taking the opposite side of the Trust’s Index Future trades may believe that the price of such Index Future will move against the Trust, and the Trust may be at an informational or other disadvantage relative to such market participants. The Trust’s trading activity in Index Futures could expose it to additional risk. In order for the Trust to achieve its investment objective on an ongoing basis, it is anticipated that existing positions in Index Futures will need to be closed out and new positions in Index Futures will need to be established from time to time. The Trust may further close out of existing positions and establish new positions in Index Futures from time to time, including new positions in earlier expiring Index Futures, which may allow it to reduce its concentration in any particular Index Future or to benefit from more liquid markets or otherwise beneficial market activity in Index Futures listed with different expirations or on different Exchanges. This activity is expected to cause the Trust to incur transaction costs, such as brokerage fees and commissions, and may cause the Shares to under-perform the Index. In particular, the prices obtained in connection with rolling Index Future positions may be adversely affected by market conditions (including the possibility of market disruptions) and by the trading activities of other market participants, which may reflect market awareness of the Trust’s position in its Index Futures. For example, if other market participants are able to anticipate the timing of the Trust’s transactions, they may be able to execute transactions in advance of the Trust, which would allow these market participants to benefit from the transactions executed by the Trust but adversely affect the prices obtained by the Trust. In addition, if the Trust’s Index Future positions represents a significant part of the open long interest in such Index Future, other market participants may take this into account, with a potential adverse impact on the prices at which the Trust is able to execute such transactions. There can be no assurance that the Trust will be able to effect its transactions in a manner that will allow it to avoid these risks. The CME or another Exchange may cease to list other Index Futures that the Trust will be able to roll its positions into, and any Index Futures listed by an Exchange in the future may have terms that differ from those initially held by the Trust. 20 Table Of Contents The liquidation of Index Futures could expose the Trust to the effects of temporary aberrations or distortions in the market, which could adversely affect the prices at which the Trust’s Index Future positions are liquidated. If the Trust liquidates positions in Index Futures in order to satisfy redemption requests or to pay expenses and liabilities, it will do so by entering sell orders with its Clearing FCM for execution on the Exchange. The resulting sales will serve to offset a portion of the Trust’s long positions in Index Futures. However, in entering sell orders, the Trust will be subject to the risk that temporary aberrations or distortions will occur in the market at the time these sales are effected and that the prices received by the Trust on its sales could be adversely affected, thereby adversely affecting the value of the Shares. Such aberrations or distortions could occur as a result of trading activities by other market participants or actions taken by the Clearing FCM, an Exchange, other self-regulatory organizations or regulatory authorities, including the liquidation of the Trust’s Index Futures to satisfy applicable margin requirements. If the Trust’s Index Futures are liquidated at inopportune times or in a manner that causes a temporary market distortion, this may adversely affect the NAV and the value of your Shares. The Trust’s Clearing FCM or an Exchange’s clearing house could fail. In the event of the bankruptcy of the Clearing FCM or an Exchange’s clearing house, the Trust could be exposed to a risk of loss with respect to its assets that are posted as margin. If such a bankruptcy were to occur, the Trust would be afforded the protections granted to customers of a futures commission merchant, or “FCM,” and participants to transactions cleared through a clearing house, under the United States Bankruptcy Code and applicable CFTC regulations. Such provisions generally provide for a pro rata distribution to customers of customer property held by the bankrupt FCM or an Exchange’s clearing house if the customer property held by the FCM or the Exchange’s clearing house is insufficient to satisfy all customer claims. In any case, there can be no assurance that these protections will be effective in allowing the Trust to recover all, or even any, of the amounts it has deposited as margin. Bankruptcy of the Clearing FCM can be caused by, among other things, the default of one of the Clearing FCM’s customers. In this event, the Exchange’s clearing house is permitted to use the entire amount of margin posted by the Trust (as well as margin posted by other customers of the Clearing FCM) to cover the amounts owed by the bankrupt Clearing FCM. Consequently, the Trust could be unable to recover amounts due to it on its Index Future positions, including assets posted as margin, and could sustain substantial losses, even if the level of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI increases. On November 14, 2012, the CFTC proposed regulations relating to enhanced customer protections, risk management programs, internal monitoring and controls, capital and liquidity standards, customer disclosures and auditing and examination programs for FCMs. There can be no assurance that the adoption or implementation of any such regulations would prevent losses to, or not materially adversely affect, the Trust or the Shareholders. Recourse to the Index Providers may be limited. The Dow Jones-UBS Commodity IndexesSM are a joint product of DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC, and UBS Securities, and have been licensed for use. Dow Jones® and DJ® are trademarks of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings, LLC; “UBS” is a registered trademark of UBS AG; S&P® is a registered trademark of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC; and these trademarks have been licensed for use by DJI Opco and sublicensed for certain purposes by the Trust. 21 Table Of Contents The Shares are not sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by the Index Providers in their capacities as such. None of the Index Providers, in their capacities as such, makes any representation or warranty, express or implied, to the owners of or counterparts to the Shares or any member of the public regarding the advisability of investing in securities or commodities generally or in the Shares particularly. The only relationship of the Index Providers, in their capacities as such, to the Trust is the licensing of certain trademarks, trade names and service marks and of the Index and the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI, which is determined, composed and calculated by DJI Opco in conjunction with UBS Securities without regard to the Trust or the Shares. The Index Providers do not take the needs of the Trust or the Shareholders into consideration in determining, composing or calculating the Index or the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI. None of the Index Providers is directly responsible for or has participated in the determination of the timing of, prices at, or quantities of the Shares to be issued or in the determination or calculation of the equation by which the Shares are to be converted into cash, surrendered or redeemed, as the case may be. The Index Providers, in their capacities as such, are not responsible for the administration, marketing or trading of the Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, UBS AG, UBS Securities, CME Group Inc., an affiliate of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC, and their respective subsidiaries and affiliates may independently issue and/or sponsor financial products unrelated to the Shares currently being issued by the Trust, but which may be similar to and competitive with the Shares. In addition, UBS AG, UBS Securities, CME Group Inc. and their subsidiaries and affiliates actively trade commodities, commodity indexes and commodity futures (including the Index and the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI), as well as swaps, options and derivatives which are linked to the performance of such commodities, commodity indexes and commodity futures. It is possible that this trading activity will affect the value of the Index, the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and Shares. Risk Factors Relating to the Trust The Trust has no operating history, and, as a result, investors will not be able to analyze the Trust’s performance history in evaluating an investment in the Trust. The Trust has no performance history upon which to evaluate an investor’s investment in the Trust. Although the Trust will be investing in collateralized Index Future positions on the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI, such that it is expected that its performance will generally correlate with the Index, the absence of past performance history precludes any evaluation of how well the Trust’s performance correlates with that of the Index, or whether the Trust has outperformed or underperformed the Index in the past. Although past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results, if the Trust had any performance history, such performance history could provide investors with more information with which to evaluate an investment in the Trust. Likewise, certain benchmarks, such as the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and the Index themselves have a limited history. A longer history for such benchmarks could provide investors with more information on which to evaluate an investment in the Trust. The Trust is an emerging growth company subject to reduced public company reporting requirements. The Trust is an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act. The Trust has not elected to make use of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards pursuant to Section 107(b) of the JOBS Act, which election is irrevocable. However, for so long as the Trust remains an emerging growth company, it will be subject to reduced public company reporting requirements. Among other things, emerging growth companies are exempt from the auditor attestation requirements under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, are exempt from certain “say on pay” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, and are subject to reduced disclosure requirements relating to executive compensation and audited financial statements. Although the Trust will remain subject to the disclosure requirements applicable to publicly traded commodity pools, and the Sponsor intends to have the Trust’s financial statements and disclosures prepared in a manner comparable to that of other iShares® exchange-traded funds, the Trust may take advantage of the exemptions and scaled requirements applicable to emerging growth companies. The returns on the Shares will not precisely correlate with the performance of the Index. The value of and returns on the Shares are expected to reflect the value of and returns on the Trust’s underlying investments in Index Futures and the cash or other Collateral Assets used to collateralize the Index Future positions. The returns on the Shares will not precisely correlate with the performance of the Index due to, among other factors, differences between the return on the Collateral Assets and the U.S. Treasury rate used to calculate the U.S. Treasury return component of the Index, timing differences, differences between the portion of the Trust’s assets invested in Index Futures versus the portion of the return of the Index contributed by the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI, differences between the settlement price of Index Futures and the closing level of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and the payment of expenses and liabilities by the Trust. 22 Table Of Contents Because the Trust is a passive investment vehicle, the value of the Shares may be adversely affected by losses that, if it had been actively managed, might have been possible to avoid. The Advisor will manage the Trust’s assets in a manner that seeks to obtain returns that correspond generally, but are not necessarily identical, to the performance of the Index, before the payment of expenses and liabilities of the Trust. This means that the net asset value of the Trust and, consequently, the NAV are intended to generally track the Index when it is flat or declining, as well as when it is rising, and therefore, it is highly likely that the value of the Shares will be adversely affected by a decline in commodity futures prices reflected in the Index. The Advisor will not engage in any activities designed to obtain a profit from, or to ameliorate losses caused by, changes in the level of the Index or the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI or the value of the Collateral Assets, including making use of any of the hedging techniques available to professional commodity futures traders to attempt to reduce the risks of losses resulting from commodity price decreases. Fees and expenses payable by the Trust are charged regardless of profitability and may result in a depletion of its assets. The Trust is subject to the fees and expenses described in this report, which are payable irrespective of profitability. These fees and expenses include an allocation to the Sponsor that accrues daily at an annualized rate of up to 0.75% of the Adjusted Net Asset Value of the Trust, and is payable by the Trust monthly in arrears. The Sponsor’s Fee may be adjusted by the Sponsor in its discretion from time to time to any amount up to 0.75% of the Adjusted Net Asset Value of the Trust. The Sponsor’s Fee may not be adjusted to above 0.75% of the Adjusted Net Asset Value of the Trust absent an amendment to the trust agreement in accordance with its terms, and such an adjustment may only become effective thirty days after the Trustee has notified the registered holders of the amendment. Interest earned on the assets posted as collateral is paid to the Trust and is used to pay the fixed fee to the Sponsor. A prolonged decline in interest rates could materially affect the amount of interest paid to the Trust. In the case of either an extraordinary expense and/or insufficient interest income to cover ordinary expenses, the Trust could be forced to liquidate its Index Future positions to pay such expenses. The Trust’s ability to operate is dependent on the Sponsor, the Trustee and certain other key service providers and other parties. The Trust’s ability to operate and achieve its investment objective is dependent on a number of parties, including: ● the Sponsor, who exercises general oversight and authority over the Trust; ● the Trustee, who is responsible for the day-to-day administration of the Trust; ● the Trust Administrator, who provides certain administrative and custodial services to the Trust; ● the Advisor, who exercises general oversight over the Trust’s investment activities; ● the Clearing FCM, through which the Trust transacts in Index Futures and maintains its Index Future positions; ● the Exchange, through which the Trust’s Index Future transactions clear and settle; ● the Index Providers, who own the intellectual property rights to the Index on which the Trust’s investment objective is based; ● the Index Co-Sponsors, who maintain the Index; ● the Authorized Participants, whose creation and redemption activities allow Index Futures and Collateral Assets to be converted to Shares and vice versa, to help maintain the relationship between the Index and the Shares; ● the Processing Agent, who performs certain functions in connection with processing creation and redemption orders; and ● PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, who provides tax reporting and tax administrative services. 23 Table Of Contents Disruptions in the business of any of the foregoing parties or the termination of the Trust’s relationship with any of the foregoing parties could adversely affect the Trust’s operations. Shared ownership of a number of the foregoing parties may heighten this risk. The Sponsor, the Advisor and the Trustee are commonly controlled subsidiaries of BlackRock, Inc. The CME, the Exchange on which the initial Index Futures are expected to trade, is a shareholder of DJI Opco, one of the Index Co-Sponsors. UBS Securities, the other Index Co-Sponsor, also acts as the Trust’s Clearing FCM, as “Initial Purchaser” in its capacity as the underwriter with respect to the initial two Baskets of Shares and as an Authorized Participant. A number of the foregoing parties are publicly traded companies or subsidiaries of publicly traded companies, and a portion of their shares may be owned by one or more of the other foregoing parties. The Trust is exposed to various operational risks. The Trust is exposed to various operational risks, including human error, information technology failures and failure to comply with formal procedures intended to mitigate these risks, and is particularly dependent on electronic means of communicating, record-keeping and otherwise conducting business. In addition, the Trust generally exculpates, and in some cases indemnifies, its service providers and agents with respect to losses arising from unforeseen circumstances and events, which may include the interruption, suspension or restriction of trading on or the closure of NYSE Arca, an Exchange, or an exchange on which the futures contracts underlying the Index trade, power or other mechanical or technological failures or interruptions, computer viruses, communications disruptions, work stoppages, natural disasters, fire, war, terrorism, riots, rebellions or other circumstances beyond the control of the Trust or its service providers and agents. Accordingly, the Trust generally bears the risk of loss with respect to these unforeseen circumstances and events to the extent relating to the Trust or the Shares, which may limit or prevent the Trust from generating returns corresponding to those of the Index or otherwise expose it to loss. Although it is generally expected that the Trust’s direct service providers and agents will generally have disaster recovery or similar programs or safeguards in place to mitigate the effect of such unforeseen circumstances and events, there can be no assurance that these safeguards are in place for all parties whose activities may affect the performance of the Trust, or that these safeguards, even if implemented, will be successful in preventing losses associated with such unforeseen circumstances and events. Nor can there be any assurance that the systems and applications on which the Trust relies will continue to operate as intended. In addition to potentially causing performance failures at, or direct losses to, the Trust, any such unforeseen circumstances and events or operational failures may further distract the service providers and agents or personnel on which the Trust relies, reducing their ability to conduct the activities on which the Trust is dependent. These risks cannot be fully mitigated or prevented, and further efforts or expenditures to do so may not be cost-effective, whether due to reduced benefits from implementing additional or redundant safeguards or due to increases in associated maintenance requirements and other expenses that may make it more costly for the Trust to operate in more typical circumstances. The price you receive upon the sale of your Shares may be less than their NAV. Shares may trade at, above or below their NAV. The NAV will fluctuate with changes in the market value of the Trust’s assets. The trading price of Shares will fluctuate in accordance with changes in the NAV, intraday changes in the value of the Index Futures and market supply and demand. The amount of the discount or premium in the trading price of the Shares relative to their NAV may be influenced by non-concurrent trading hours between NYSE Arca, the exchange on which the Shares trade, the Exchanges on which Index Futures trade and the principal commodities markets on which the futures contracts in the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI trade. While the Shares are expected to trade on NYSE Arca until 4:00 p.m. (New York time), liquidity in the markets for the Index Futures and the futures contracts underlying the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI is expected to be reduced whenever the principal markets for those contracts are closed. As a result, trading spreads, and the resulting premium or discount on Shares, may widen during these “gaps” in market trading hours. The Trust is not obligated to pay periodic distributions or dividends to Shareholders. Interest or other income received with respect to the Trust’s assets may be used to acquire additional Index Futures or Collateral Assets or, in the discretion of the Sponsor, distributed to the Shareholders. The Trust will not be obligated, however, to make any distributions to Shareholders at any time prior to the dissolution of the Trust. The Trust could be liquidated at a time when the disposition of its interests will result in losses to investors in Shares. Certain events, such as the delisting of the Shares, the election by 75% of the Shareholders to dissolve the Trust, the resignation by the Trustee without a successor, the Trust becoming subject to regulation as an “investment company,” the liquidation of the Trust, the Trust becoming subject to taxation as an association taxable as a corporation, or the DTC becoming unable or unwilling to perform its functions, may prompt the Trust’s dissolution. Upon dissolution of the Trust, the Trust will in most circumstances sell the Index Futures and securities held by it in the amount necessary to cover all expenses of liquidation and to pay any outstanding liabilities of the Trust. The remaining assets will be distributed among investors surrendering Shares. In the event the Trustee cannot distribute such assets proportionately among the Shareholders entitled thereto or if the Trustee determines that such distribution is not lawful or feasible, the Trustee may use any other method of distribution that it deems to be lawful, equitable, and feasible, including the public or private sale of Trust assets and the distribution of the proceeds thereof. Any property remaining in the possession of the Trustee after ninety days may be sold by the Trustee, and the proceeds of the sale will be held by the Trustee until claimed by any remaining Shareholders. 24 Table Of Contents In connection with any such liquidation, Trust property may be sold for prices that are less than the portion of the NAV attributable to such Trust property. Accordingly, the liquidation of Trust property may result in losses, or adversely affect your gains, on your investment in Shares. The Sponsor has broad discretion to liquidate the Trust at any time. The trust agreement provides the Sponsor with broad discretion to liquidate the Trust at any time the Sponsor determines that liquidation of the Trust is advisable. It cannot be predicted when or under what circumstances, if any, the Sponsor would use this discretion to liquidate the Trust. Any such liquidation may occur at a time when you are suffering a loss on your investment in the Shares and may upset the overall maturity and timing of your investment portfolio. Shareholders with large holdings may choose to dissolve the Trust and thereby adversely affect your investment in the Shares. Owners of 75% or more of the Shares have the power to dissolve the Trust. This power may be exercised by a relatively small number of holders. If it is so exercised, investors who wished to continue to invest in the performance of the Index through the vehicle of the Trust will have to find another vehicle, and may not be able to find another vehicle that offers the same features as the Trust. Moreover, such a dissolution may occur at a time when you are suffering a loss on your investment in the Shares and may upset the overall maturity and timing of your investment portfolio. The Shares may not provide anticipated benefits of diversification from other asset classes. Historically, the performance of physical commodity futures prices generally has not been correlated to the performance of financial asset classes, such as stocks and bonds. Non-correlation means that there is no statistically significant relationship, positive or negative, between the past performance of futures contracts on physical commodities, on the one hand, and stocks or bonds, on the other hand. Despite this lack of correlation, Shares cannot be expected to be automatically profitable during unfavorable periods for the stock or bond markets, or automatically unprofitable during favorable periods for the stock or bond markets. The commodity futures markets are fundamentally different from the securities markets in that for every gain in commodity futures trading, there is an equal and offsetting loss. The performance of the Shares may reflect positive or negative correlation to one or more financial asset classes, in which case any investment strategy relying on the absence of any such correlation may not be successful. The liquidity of the Shares may be affected by the withdrawal from participation of Authorized Participants or by the suspension of issuance, transfers or redemptions of Shares by the Trustee. If one or more Authorized Participants withdraw from participation, it may become more difficult to create or redeem Baskets, which may reduce the liquidity of the Shares. If it becomes more difficult to create or redeem Baskets, the correlation between the price of the Shares and the NAV may be affected, which may affect the trading market for the Shares. Having fewer participants in the market for the Shares could also adversely affect the ability to arbitrage any price difference between the Index Futures and the Shares, which may affect the trading market and liquidity of the Shares. In addition, the Trustee has the power to suspend the delivery of Shares, registration of transfers of Shares and surrenders of Shares for the purpose of withdrawing Trust property generally, or to refuse a particular deposit, transfer or withdrawal at any time, if the Trustee or the Sponsor determines that it is advisable to do so for any reason. The liquidity of the Shares and the correlation between the value of the Shares and the level of the Index may be adversely affected in the event of any such suspension of issuance, transfer or redemption. 25 Table Of Contents The lack of an active trading market for the Shares may result in losses on your investment at the time of disposition of your Shares. Although the Shares are listed on NYSE Arca, there can be no guarantee that an active trading market for the Shares will develop or be maintained. If you need to sell your Shares at a time when no active market for them exists, the price you receive for your Shares, assuming that you are able to sell them, will likely be lower than that you would receive if an active market did exist. You may be adversely affected by redemption orders that are subject to postponement, suspension or rejection under certain circumstances. The Trustee may suspend the right of redemption or postpone the redemption settlement date for such periods as it or the Sponsor deems to be necessary for any reason. In addition, the Trustee has the right to reject any redemption order for any reason, including, among others, (1) the related order not being in proper form as described in the authorized participant agreement, (2) market conditions or other circumstances that make transactions in or delivery of the Shares or the Index Futures impossible or impractical, (3) a determination by the Trustee that the acceptance of the related order would have adverse tax or other consequences to the Trust or the Shareholders or (4) circumstances that would cause the acceptance of the related order to result in a violation of law in the opinion of counsel to the Trustee, the Sponsor, the Trust Administrator or the Processing Agent. Any such postponement, suspension or rejection could adversely affect a redeeming Authorized Participant. For example, the resulting delay may adversely affect the value of the redemption proceeds if the NAV declines during the period of the delay. Under the authorized participant agreement, the Trustee disclaims any liability that may result from any such suspension, postponement or rejection. Competition from other commodities-related investments could limit the market for, and reduce the liquidity of, the Shares. Demand for the Shares is expected to be affected by the attractiveness of an investment in the Shares relative to other investment vehicles, including other commodity pools, hedge funds, traditional debt and equity securities issued by companies in the commodities industry, other securities backed by or linked to commodities, and direct investments in commodities or commodity futures contracts. Market, financial and other conditions or factors may make it more attractive to invest in other investment vehicles or to invest in such commodities directly, which could limit the market for, and reduce the liquidity of, the Shares. The price of the Shares could decrease if unanticipated operational or trading problems arise. If the processes of creation and redemption of Shares encounter any unanticipated difficulties, potential market participants who would otherwise be willing to purchase or redeem Baskets to take advantage of any arbitrage opportunity arising from discrepancies between the price of the Shares and the price of the underlying Index Futures may choose not to do so. If this is the case, the price of the Shares may vary from the price of an equivalent position in Index Futures and may trade at a discount to their NAV. In addition, in some circumstances, such as the failure of the registration statement covering the Shares to be effective, the Trust may be unable to create or redeem Shares, which may have similar consequences. Exchange position limits and other rules may restrict the creation of Baskets and the operation of the Trust. Legislative or regulatory action, actions by an Exchange or actions by the Clearing FCM may impose limitations on the size of positions that the Trust may take in Index Futures and/or impose limitations on the size of positions that may be carried by the Trust’s Clearing FCM or other market participants, adversely affecting the liquidity and price of Index Futures and the underlying futures. Such events could force the Trust or other market participants to sell Index Futures, or encourage market participants to sell or redeem their Shares. Any such reduction could affect the liquidity of Index Futures and adversely impact the price of the Shares as well as the correlation between the price of the Shares and the net asset value of the Trust. Exchanges may also take steps, such as requiring liquidation of open positions, in the case of disorderly markets, market congestion and other market disruptions. These actions could require the Trust to liquidate all or part of its Index Future positions or require holders of positions in the futures contracts underlying the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI to liquidate their positions. This could affect the level of the Index and the NAV. 26 Table Of Contents Shareholders will not have the rights normally associated with ownership of common shares; the Sponsor and the Trustee will exercise substantial control over the Trust. Shareholders are not entitled to the same rights as owners of shares issued by a corporation. By acquiring Shares, you are not acquiring the right to elect directors, to receive dividends, to vote on certain matters regarding the Trust or to take other actions normally associated with the ownership of common shares. Additionally, the Sponsor and the Trustee will exercise substantial control over the Trust’s activities. Among other things, the trust agreement authorizes the Sponsor to determine whether to make distributions to Shareholders, gives the Sponsor oversight over NAV calculations and the creation and redemption process and permits the Sponsor to dissolve the Trust if it deems such dissolution advisable. Similarly, the Trustee will retain the right to reject any order for the creation or redemption of Baskets. The Sponsor and the Trustee may amend the provisions of the trust agreement, including in a manner adverse to Shareholders, without Shareholder consent, including to change the assets through which the Trust seeks to achieve its investment objective, which may alter the nature of an investment in, and the performance of, the Shares. The trust agreement provides that in the case of a conflict of interest between the Trustee, the Sponsor and their affiliates, on the one hand, and the holders of Shares, on the other, the Trustee and the Sponsor will resolve such conflict considering the relevant interests of each party (including their own interests) and related benefits and burdens, any customary or accepted industry practices, and any applicable generally accepted accounting practices or principles. The trust agreement further provides that in the absence of bad faith by the Trustee or the Sponsor, such a resolution will not constitute a breach of the trust agreement or any duty or obligation of the Trustee or the Sponsor. Shareholders will not have the protections normally associated with the ownership of shares in an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act. The Trust is not registered as an investment company for purposes of United States federal securities laws, and is not subject to regulation by the SEC as an investment company. Consequently, Shareholders will not have the regulatory protections provided to investors in investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act. For example, the provisions of the Investment Company Act that limit transactions with affiliates, prohibit the suspension of redemptions (except under limited circumstances) and limit sales loads will not apply to the Trust. iShares® Delaware Trust Sponsor LLC, as the Sponsor, is registered with the CFTC as a commodity pool operator, and BlackRock Fund Advisors, as the Advisor, is registered with the CFTC as a commodity trading advisor. The CFTC therefore has jurisdiction over these entities and regulatory authority over certain activities of the Trust. The nature and degree of this regulation differs from the regulatory scheme imposed under the Investment Company Act. Competing claims over ownership of relevant intellectual property rights could adversely affect the Trust or an investment in the Shares. While the Sponsor believes that it has all of the intellectual property rights needed to operate the Trust in the manner described in the Trust’s prospectus, third parties may allege or assert ownership of intellectual property rights that may be related to the design, structure and operation of the Trust or the Index. To the extent any claims of such ownership are brought or any proceedings are instituted to assert such claims, the negotiation, litigation or settlement of such claims, the issuance of any restraining orders or injunctions, or the ultimate disposition of such claims in a court of law, may adversely affect the Trust and the value of the Shares. For example, such actions could result in expenses or damages payable by the Trust or the suspension of activities or dissolution of the Trust. The value of the Shares will be adversely affected if the Trust is required to indemnify the Sponsor, the Advisor or the Trustee or their respective agents. Under the trust agreement, the Sponsor, the Trustee and their respective agents have the right to be indemnified by the Trust for any liability or expense they incur without negligence, bad faith, willful misconduct or reckless disregard of their duties on their part. That means the Sponsor and the Trustee may require the assets of the Trust to be sold in order to cover losses or liabilities suffered by it, which would reduce the net asset value of the Trust and the value of the Shares. 27 Table Of Contents Likewise, under the advisory agreement, the Advisor and its agents have the right to be indemnified by the Trust for any liability or expense they incur without negligence, bad faith, willful misconduct or reckless disregard of their duties on their part. That means the Advisor may require the assets of the Trust to be sold in order to cover losses or liabilities suffered by it, which would reduce the net asset value of the Trust and the value of the Shares. Regulatory changes or actions may affect the Shares. The futures markets are subject to comprehensive regulation. In addition, the CFTC and the exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of a market emergency, including, for example, implementing retroactively speculative position limits or higher margin requirements, establishing daily price limits and suspending trading. The regulation of futures transactions in the United States is subject to modification by government, exchange and judicial action. The effect of any future regulatory change on the Trust could be substantial and adverse. NYSE Arca may halt trading in the Shares, which would adversely impact your ability to sell your Shares. The Shares are listed for trading on NYSE Arca under the symbol “CMDT.” Trading in the Shares may be halted due to market conditions or, in light of NYSE Arca rules and procedures, for reasons that, in the view of NYSE Arca, make trading in the Shares inadvisable, or in the event certain information about the Index, the value of the Shares and the NAV is not made available as required by such rules and procedures. In addition, trading generally on NYSE Arca is subject to trading halts caused by extraordinary market volatility pursuant to “circuit breaker” rules that require trading to be halted for a specified period based on a specified market decline. There can be no assurance that the requirements necessary to maintain the listing of the Shares will continue to be met or will remain unchanged. The Trust will be dissolved if the Shares are delisted from NYSE Arca and are not approved for listing on another national securities exchange within five business days of their delisting. Risk Factors Relating to Conflicts of Interest The Sponsor’s relationship with the Trustee and the Advisor and the proprietary and managed trading activities of the Sponsor and its affiliates could conflict with your interests as a Shareholder. The Sponsor is an affiliate of the Trustee and therefore may have a conflict of interest with respect to its oversight of the Trustee. In particular, the Sponsor, which has authority to remove the Trustee in its discretion, has an incentive not to exercise this authority, even when it is in the best interests of the Shareholders to do so, because of the affiliation between the entities. The Trustee is authorized to appoint an unaffiliated Trust Administrator or agent to carry out all or some of its duties under the trust agreement, but is not required to delegate any of its duties to an unaffiliated third party. The Sponsor is an affiliate of the Advisor and therefore may have a similar conflict of interest with respect to its oversight of the Advisor. For example, although the Sponsor has the authority to terminate the Trust’s advisory agreement with the Advisor, it has an incentive not to exercise this authority, even when it is in the best interests of the Shareholders to do so, because of the affiliation between the entities. As described elsewhere in this report, in return for paying certain amounts that would otherwise be considered ordinary operating expenses of the Trust, the Sponsor receives an allocation from the Trust that accrues daily at an annualized rate of up to 0.75% of the Adjusted Net Asset Value of the Trust, is payable monthly in arrears, and is subject to adjustment from time to time, except that the Sponsor’s Fee may not be adjusted to above 0.75% of the Adjusted Net Asset Value absent an amendment to the trust agreement and thirty days’ prior notice to registered holders of the Shares. The allocation received by the Sponsor from the Trust may be higher than the amount the Trust would negotiate with an unaffiliated third party manager on an arms-length basis. In addition, the Sponsor and its affiliates (including the Trustee and the Advisor) will collectively exercise substantial control over the Trust. To the extent the interests of the Sponsor and its affiliates conflict with those of the Trust and the Shareholders, the risks associated with such conflicts may be greater than they would otherwise be for a party that cannot exercise such control over the Trust. The trust agreement provides that in the case of a conflict of interest between the Trustee, the Sponsor and their affiliates, on the one hand, and the holders of Shares, on the other, the Trustee and the Sponsor will resolve such conflict considering the relevant interests of each party (including their own interests) and related benefits and burdens, any customary or accepted industry practices, and any applicable generally accepted accounting practices or principles. The trust agreement further provides that in the absence of bad faith by the Trustee or the Sponsor, such a resolution will not constitute a breach of the trust agreement or any duty or obligation of the Trustee or the Sponsor. 28 Table Of Contents The Sponsor and its affiliates may also engage in trading activities relating to the Index Futures, the components of the Index or the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI or other derivative instruments related to those indices that are not for the account of, or on behalf of, the Trust or the Shareholders and that may compete with trading activity in the Shares. These activities may present a conflict between the Shareholders’ interest in the Shares and the interest of the Sponsor and its affiliates in their proprietary accounts, in facilitating transactions, including derivatives transactions, for their customers’ accounts and in accounts under their management. These trading activities could be adverse to the interests of the Shareholders. Moreover, the Sponsor and its affiliates have published and in the future expect to publish research reports with respect to commodities markets. This research may express opinions or provide recommendations that are inconsistent with purchasing or holding Shares. The research should not be viewed as a recommendation or endorsement of the Shares in any way, and investors must make their own independent investigation of the merits of this investment. Any of these activities by the Sponsor and its affiliates may affect the level of the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI or its components and, therefore, the value of the Index Futures and the price of the Shares. Proprietary trading and other activities by UBS Securities and its affiliates could conflict with your interests as a Shareholder. Activities conducted by UBS Securities and its affiliates may conflict with your interests as a Shareholder. For example, the Advisor may execute a substantial amount, and potentially all, of the purchases and sales of Index Futures through UBS Securities, as the Trust’s Clearing FCM. In addition, it is expected that UBS Securities or its accountholders will represent, directly or indirectly, a substantial portion of the short-side market for the Index Futures. Further, UBS Securities and its affiliates actively trade futures contracts and options on futures contracts on the commodities that underlie the Index, over-the-counter contracts on these commodities, the underlying commodities included in the Index and other instruments and derivative products based on the Index, the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI and the DJ-UBS CI. Any of these activities of UBS Securities or its affiliates could adversely affect the level of the Index or Index Futures, directly or indirectly, by affecting the price of the underlying commodities and, therefore, the value of the Index, the Index Futures and the price of the Shares. In addition, UBS Securities is one of the Index Co-Sponsors and two-thirds of the supervisory committee responsible for oversight of the DJ-UBS CI consist of representatives appointed by UBS Securities. Accordingly, UBS Securities will exercise substantial control over the Index, the DJ-UBS CI and the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI. To the extent UBS Securities’ interests conflict with those of the Trust and the Shareholders, the risks associated with such conflicts may be greater than they would otherwise be for a party that cannot exercise such control over the Index, the DJ-UBS CI and the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI. According to UBS Securities, UBS Securities has implemented a firewall with respect to its personnel regarding access to information concerning the composition and/or changes to the Index. UBS Securities and its affiliates may also issue or underwrite other securities or financial or derivative instruments with returns indexed to the Index, the DJ-UBS CI or the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI, which would compete with the Shares. By introducing competing products into the marketplace, UBS Securities and its affiliates could adversely affect the price of the Shares. To the extent that UBS Securities or its affiliates serve as issuer, agent or underwriter of those securities or other similar instruments, their interests with respect to those products may be adverse to your interests as a Shareholder. In addition, UBS Securities will be the Initial Purchaser and an Authorized Participant while, as noted above, it is expected to represent, directly or indirectly, a substantial portion of the short-side market for the Index Futures and could therefore benefit from the adverse performance of the Index Futures which would be adverse to the price of the Shares. Proprietary trading and other activities by the Index Providers and their respective affiliates could conflict with your interests as a Shareholder. Activities conducted by the Index Providers and their respective affiliates may conflict with your interests as a Shareholder. For example, one or more of the Index Providers or their respective affiliates may also engage in trading in the Index, the DJ-UBS CI, the DJ-UBS Roll Select CI, related indices and sub-indices, and other investments relating to such indices or their underlying components on a regular basis as part of its general business, for proprietary accounts, for other accounts under management, to facilitate transactions for customers or to hedge obligations under products linked to such indices. One or more of the Index Providers or their respective affiliates may also issue or underwrite securities or financial or derivative instruments with returns linked or related to changes in the performance of any of the foregoing. Any of these activities could adversely affect the market price of the commodities or futures contracts underlying such indices or the value of the indices themselves, which may adversely affect the value of the Shares. According to UBS Securities, UBS Securities has implemented a firewall with respect to its personnel regarding access to information concerning the composition and/or changes to the Index. It is possible that one or more of the Index Providers or their respective affiliates could receive substantial returns from these hedging activities while the market value of the underlying commodities or futures contracts, the value of the indices, or the price or the NAV of the Shares decline. Some or all of these risks may be further exacerbated as a result of various other roles of the Index Providers or their affiliates relating to the Trust, the Shares or the Index Futures. 29 Table Of Contents Risk Factors Relating to Taxes Your tax liability could exceed cash distributions on your Shares. You will be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes on your allocable share of the Trust’s income, without regard to the receipt of cash distributions on the Shares. There is no obligation to make distributions on the Shares. Accordingly, it is anticipated that you will not receive cash distributions sufficient to cover your allocable share of such taxable income or even the tax liability resulting from that income. The IRS could adjust or reallocate items of income, gain, deduction, loss and credit with respect to the Shares if the IRS does not accept the assumptions or conventions utilized by the Trust. The U.S. tax rules that apply to partnerships are complex and their application is not always clear. Moreover, the rules generally were not written for, and in some respects are difficult to apply to, publicly traded interests in partnerships. In addition, the Trust will report tax information to you on Internal Revenue Service or “IRS” Schedule K-1 with respect to the Shares. The Trustee shall deliver or cause to be delivered to each Shareholder an IRS Schedule K-1 as soon as practicable following each fiscal year but generally not later than March 15. Reporting on IRS Schedule K-1 may be somewhat more complex than comparable reporting on IRS Form 1099. Each Shareholder, by its acquisition of Shares, will be deemed to agree to allow brokers and nominees to provide to the Trust its name and address and the other information and forms as may be reasonably requested by the Trust for purposes of complying with their tax reporting and withholding obligations (and to waive any confidentiality rights with respect to the information and forms for this purpose) and to provide information or forms upon request. Given the lack of authority addressing structures similar to that of the Trust, it is not certain that the IRS will agree with the manner in which tax reporting by the Trust will be undertaken. Therefore, Shareholders should be aware that future IRS interpretations or revisions to Treasury regulations could alter the manner in which tax reporting by the Trust and any nominee will be undertaken. Investors in the Shares should consult their tax advisors in determining how to use the information reported on IRS Schedule K-1 to complete their income tax returns. The Trust will apply certain assumptions and conventions intended to comply with the intent of the rules and to report income, gain, deduction, loss and credit to investors in a manner that reflects the investors’ economic gains and losses, but these assumptions and conventions may not comply with all aspects of the applicable Treasury regulations. It is possible therefore that the IRS will successfully assert that these assumptions or conventions do not satisfy the technical requirements of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the “Code,” or the Treasury regulations and will require that items of income, gain, deduction, loss and credit be adjusted or reallocated in a manner that could be adverse to you. If the Trust were to fail to qualify as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Trust’s income and items of deduction would not pass through to the Shareholders, the Trust would be required to pay tax at corporate rates on any portion of the Trust’s net income that does not constitute tax-exempt income, and distributions by the Trust to the Trust’s Shareholders would be taxable dividends to the extent of the Trust’s earnings and profits. It is expected that the Trust will operate and be classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. So long as the Trust qualifies as a partnership, it will be able to pass through its income, including the Trust’s federally tax-exempt income, if any, and deductions to the Shareholders. The Trust’s qualification as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes involves the application of numerous technical provisions under which there is a lack of direct authority. In general, if a partnership is “publicly traded,” as defined in the Code, it will be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. It is expected that the Trust will be treated as a publicly traded partnership. A publicly traded partnership will, however, be taxed as a partnership, and not as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, so long as 90% or more of its gross income for each taxable year constitutes “qualifying income” within the meaning of Section 7704(d) of the Code and the partnership is not required to register under the Investment Company Act. This exception is referred to as the “qualifying income exception.” Qualifying income generally includes interest (other than certain contingent interest and interest derived in the conduct of a financial or insurance business), dividends, real property rents, and income from certain commodities transactions. 30 Table Of Contents If less than 90% of the Trust’s gross income for any tax year constitutes qualifying income, for any reason, other than a failure that is determined to be inadvertent and that is cured within a reasonable time after discovery, or if the Trust is required to register under the Investment Company Act, the Trust’s items of income and deduction would not pass through to the Trust’s Shareholders and the Trust’s Shareholders would be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as stockholders in a corporation. The Trust would be required to pay income tax at corporate rates on its net taxable income. Distributions by the Trust to its Shareholders would constitute dividend income taxable to such holders to the extent of the Trust’s earnings and profits and the payment of these distributions would not be deductible by the Trust. These consequences could have a material adverse effect on the Trust, its Shareholders and the value of the Shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 