ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the risk factors set forth in our Registration Statement that went effective on February 13, 2012, stockholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors: Risks Relating to Our Lack of Operating History We have a going concern opinion from our auditors, indicating the possibility that we may not be able to continue to operate. We have not generated any revenue since going public on February 13, 2012. Therefore, we may be unable to continue operations in the future as a going concern. No adjustment has been made in the accompanying financial statements to the amounts and classification of assets and liabilities which could result should we be unable to continue as a going concern. If we cannot continue as a viable entity, our stockholders may lose some or all of their investment in us. In addition, our independent auditors included an explanatory paragraph in their report on the accompanying financial statements regarding concerns about our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result, we may not be able to obtain additional necessary funding. There can be no assurance that we will ever achieve any revenues or profitability. The revenue and income potential of our proposed business and operations are unproven, and the lack of operating history makes it difficult to evaluate the future prospects of our business. We are a development stage company and may never be able to execute our business plan. We were incorporated on October 13, 2011. Since incorporation, we have not developed any products, customers, or revenues. Although we have begun initial planning for the marketing of our energy bar products, we may not be able to execute our business plan unless and until we are successful in raising additional funds. We do not have any current sources of financing to implement our business plan and to remain operational during the next twelve months. Even with this funding, if we do not generate any revenues within the next twelve months, we may require additional financing in order to establish profitable operations. Even with such additional funding, there is no assurance that we will be profitable. Moreover, such financing, if required, may not be forthcoming. Even if additional financing is available, it may not be available on terms we find favorable. Failure to secure the needed additional financing will have a serious effect on our company's ability to survive. At this time, there are no anticipated additional sources of funds in place. Our business plan may be unsuccessful. The success of our business plan is dependent on our marketing our health energy bars. Our ability to develop this market and sell our products is unproven, and the lack of operating history makes it difficult to validate our business plan. Our marketing plan is not currently complete and partly remains to be determined. As a brand based company, marketing and sales will be driven through the marketing of our energy bars. Should the target market not be as responsive as we anticipate, we will not have in place alternate services or products that we can offer to ensure our continuing as a going concern. We have no operating history and have maintained losses since inception, which we expect to continue in the future. We have generated no revenue since incorporation and have maintained losses since inception. We also expect to continue to incur operating losses in future periods. These losses will occur because we do not yet have any revenues to offset the expenses associated with the marketing of our energy bars. We cannot guarantee that we will ever be successful in generating revenues in the future. We recognize that if we are unable to generate revenues, we will not be able to earn profits or continue operations. There is no history upon which to base any assumption as to the likelihood that we will prove successful, and we can provide investors with no assurance that we will generate any operating revenues or ever achieve profitable operations. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks, our business will most likely fail. 8 Risks Relating to Our Business Our executive officers and Directors have significant voting power and may take actions that may be different from actions sought by our other stockholders. Our officers and Directors own a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. These stockholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval. This influence over our affairs might be adverse to the interest of our other stockholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership could delay or prevent a change in control and might have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Since our officers and Directors may work or consult for other companies, their other activities could slow down our operations. Our officers and directors are not required to work exclusively for us and do not devote all of their time to our operations. Presently, our officers and directors allocate only a portion of their time to the operation of our business. Therefore, it is possible that their pursuit of other activities may slow our operations and reduce our financial results because of the slow-down in operations. Our officers and Directors are located in Israel. Since all of our officers and Directors are located in Israel, any attempt to enforce liabilities upon such individuals under the U.S. securities and bankruptcy laws may be difficult. In accordance with the Israeli Law on Enforcement of Foreign Judgments, 5718-1958, and subject to certain time limitations (the application to enforce the judgment must be made within five years of the date of judgment or such other period as might be agreed between Israel and the United States), an Israeli court may declare a foreign civil judgment enforceable if it finds that: An Israeli court will not declare a foreign judgment enforceable if: • the judgment was rendered by a court which was, according to the laws of the State in which the court is located, competent to render the judgment; • the judgment may no longer be appealed; • the obligation imposed by the judgment is enforceable according to the rules relating to the enforceability of judgments in Israel and the substance of the judgment is not contrary to public policy; and • the judgment is executory in the State in which it was given. • the judgment was obtained by fraud; • there is a finding of lack of due process; • the judgment was rendered by a court not competent to render it according to the laws of private international law in Israel; • the judgment is in conflict with another judgment that was given in the same matter between the same parties and that is still valid; or Furthermore, Israeli courts may not adjudicate a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws if the court determines that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. Even if an Israeli court agrees to hear such a claim, it may determine that Israeli law, not U.S. law, is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proven as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Our assets may also be held from time to time outside of the United States. Currently, none of our assets is held outside of the United States. Since our directors and executive officers do not reside in the United States it may be difficult for courts in the United States to obtain jurisdiction over our foreign assets or persons and, as a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to enforce judgments rendered against us or our directors or executive officers in United States courts. Thus, investing in us may pose a greater risk because should any situation arise in the future in which you have a cause of action against these persons or us, you may face potential difficulties in bringing lawsuits or, if successful, in collecting judgments against these persons or us. 9 We may not have effective internal controls. In connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we need to assess the adequacy of our internal control, remediate any weaknesses that may be identified, validate that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal controls. We may discover deficiencies that require us to improve our procedures, processes and systems in order to ensure that our internal controls are adequate and effective and that we are in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If the deficiencies are not adequately addressed, or if we are unable to complete all of our testing and any remediation in time for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the SEC rules under it, we would be unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are designed and operating effectively, which could adversely affect investor confidence in our internal controls over financial reporting. Risks Relating to Our Strategy and Industry WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FIND SUITABLE SUPPLIERS AND CLOSE PARTNERSHIPS REQUIRED FOR OUR BUSINESS TO WORK. An important part of our business concept and of revenue generation will rely on our ability to select and retain organic sports bar suppliers. If we are unable to find suitable suppliers and we do not have the ability to have profitable partnerships with them, our operation would be affected. Therefore, our operation, revenue and financial success could be severely affected, resulting in the suspension of our operation or the cession of it completely. BECAUSE OUR MANAGEMENT IS INEXPERIENCED IN OPERATING A SPORTS NUTRITION DISTRIBUTION NETWORK, OUR BUSINESS PLAN MAY FAIL Our management does not have any specific training in running a business for distributing and for selling organic energy bars. With no direct training or experience in this area, our management may not be fully aware of many of the specific requirements related to working within this industry. As a result, our management may lack certain skills that are advantageous in managing our company. Consequently, our operations, earnings, and ultimate financial success could suffer irreparable harm due to management’s lack of experience in this industry. THE COMPANY CURRENTLY HAS NO PRODUCTS OR SERVICES. WHEN WE DO HAVE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES OUR NAME WILL HAVE LITTLE, IF ANY, NAME RECOGNITION. AS A RESULT, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO GENERATE REVENUES, WHICH WILL REDUCE THE VALUE OF YOUR INVESTMENT Because we are a new company with no products or services and we have not conducted advertising, there is little or no recognition of our name. As a result, consumers may search for products and services other than ours that have brand recognition in the market and we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to meet our expenses or meet our business plan objectives, which will reduce the value of your investment. THE COMPANY MAY BE UNABLE TO MAKE NECESSARY ADJUSTMENTS ON ITS WEBSITE IN A TIMELY MATTER, WHICH WOULD DIRECTLY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS In the case of any problem on our Website, due to an attack by hackers, viruses or any other factor, it is fundamental to resolve the problem almost immediately, as we are dependent on our website to generate revenue. Because the Company does not have an exclusive technician to detect and deal with any problem with our website, it may take us some time to realize that a problem exist and after that, it may take long time until we find a capable and available 10 