Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face but are the risks we know of that we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business The U.S. economy has recently experienced a recession and the recovery to date has been slow, unsteady and incomplete. As a result, some of our tenants may become unable to pay our rents and the values of our properties may decline. The U.S. economy has recently experienced a recession and the recovery to date has been slow, unsteady and incomplete. If these general economic conditions persist or worsen, our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to meet our obligations and make or sustain distributions to our shareholders may be materially and adversely affected, including as follows: •our tenants may become unable or unwilling to pay our rents; •the demand for leased land in Hawaii or for leased office and industrial space across the country may decline, and the rents we can charge when our tenants' rents are reset, leases are renewed or new leases are entered into may be lower than the rents we now charge; •we may be unable to lease our properties which become vacant as our leases expire or if our tenants default; •the market values of our properties may decline; and •access to capital markets may become difficult, expensive or impossible, and our ability to obtain debt or equity capital to fund our operations, meet our obligations, purchase additional properties or otherwise conduct our business may be materially and adversely affected or eliminated. When we reset rents, renew leases or lease to new tenants, our rents may decline and our expenses may increase. When we reset rents, renew leases or lease to new tenants we may receive less rent than we currently receive. A majority of our Hawaii land leases require the rent to periodically be reset based on fair market values, which could result in rental increases or decreases. Our ability to increase rents when rent resets occur will depend upon then prevailing market conditions that are beyond our control. Further, our leases in Hawaii typically provide for appraisal proceedings to determine fair market value if we cannot reach agreement with our tenants on the rent reset amount. Accordingly, we cannot assure that the historical increases which we or CWH achieved in rent resets will be repeated in the future. While rent resets involving our Hawaii land leases have, in the aggregate, resulted in rent increases 31 Table of Contents during the period of our and CWH's ownership, in some instances rent resets have resulted in rent decreases. Additionally, a downturn in economic conditions in Hawaii may cause reduced market rents for our properties when rents are reset, which could lead to a reduction in our revenues. When we lease to new tenants or renew leases we may have to spend substantial amounts for leasing commissions, tenant improvements or other tenant inducements. Many of our leases are for properties that are specially suited to the particular business of our tenants. Because these properties have been designed or physically modified for a particular tenant, if the current lease is terminated or not renewed, we may be required to renovate the property at substantial costs, decrease the rent we charge or provide other concessions in order to lease the property to another tenant. There is a general trend in the office real estate sector for companies to decrease the square feet they occupy per employee and to reconfigure leased space for changed usage. This increase in utilization rates may result in a tenant renewing a lease for less square feet than they currently occupy, which could increase both the vacancy and unreimbursed operating costs at our properties. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of investment in our common shares. Interest rates have been at historically low levels and have recently increased. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of your investment in our common shares, including in the following ways: •Amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility and term loan bear interest at variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost of refinancing our debt when it becomes due and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders. Additionally, if we choose to hedge our interest rate risk, we cannot assure that the hedge will be effective or that our hedging counterparty will meet its obligations to us. •An increase in interest rates could decrease the amount buyers may be willing to pay for our properties, thereby reducing the market value of our properties and limiting our ability to sell properties or to obtain mortgage financing secured by our properties. Further, increased interest rates may effectively increase the cost of properties we acquire to the extent we utilize leverage for those acquisitions and may result in a reduction in our acquisitions to the extent we reduce the amount we offer to pay for properties, due to the effect of increased interest rates, to a price that sellers may not accept. •We expect to make regular distributions to our shareholders. When interest rates on debt investments available to investors rise, the market prices of distribution paying securities often decline. Accordingly, if interest rates rise, the market price of our common shares may decline. We currently have a concentration of properties on the island of Oahu, HI, which contributed approximately 43.4% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013. Approximately 43.4% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 were received from our properties located on the island of Oahu, HI. Consequently, we are significantly affected by Hawaii's economy. Hawaii's economy is heavily influenced by tourism. A decline in tourism to Hawaii may affect our Hawaii tenants' ability to pay rent to us and could adversely affect us. Oahu's remote location on a volcanic island makes our properties there vulnerable to certain risks from natural disasters, such as tsunamis, hurricanes, flooding, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes, which could cause damage to our properties, affect our Hawaii tenants' ability to pay rent to us and cause the value of our properties to decline. 32 Table of Contents Our ability to increase rents in Hawaii may be curtailed in the future by government action. In July 2009, the Hawaii state legislature enacted legislation which would have limited rent increases at certain of our leased industrial and commercial properties in Hawaii. In May 2010, the U.S. District Court in Hawaii ruled that this legislation violated the U.S. Constitution and was unenforceable. In October 2010, CWH entered a settlement agreement with the State of Hawaii pursuant to which the State's appeal of this decision was dismissed with prejudice in return for CWH's agreement not to pursue its attorneys' fees from the State. The Hawaii state legislature may in the future adopt laws to limit rent increases at our properties in Hawaii, and, even if we are successful in challenging such laws, the cost of doing so is likely to be more significant to us than it was to CWH because of our smaller size. Substantially all of our properties are leased to single tenants and the large majority are leased to tenants that do not have investment ratings. Substantially all of our total revenues as of December 31, 2013 were from properties leased to single tenants. We expect that we will continue to derive substantially all of our revenues from single tenant properties and, therefore, the success of single tenant properties will be materially dependent on the performance of those tenants under their respective leases. Tenant defaults or failure to renew leases upon termination will adversely impact our revenues. In addition to not realizing rental income, many property level operating expenses and capital expenditures, such as real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, maintenance and repairs, other than, in certain circumstances, roof and structural element-related expenditures, are paid or reimbursed by our tenants pursuant to our leases, and a tenant default could leave us responsible for paying these expenses. Because our properties are leased to single tenants, the adverse impact of tenant defaults or non-renewals is likely to be greater than would be the case if our properties were leased to multiple tenants. The occurrence of a tenant bankruptcy or insolvency could diminish the income we receive from that tenant's lease. If a tenant becomes bankrupt or insolvent, federal law may prohibit us from evicting such a tenant based solely upon such bankruptcy or insolvency. In addition, a bankrupt or insolvent tenant may be authorized to reject and terminate its lease with us. Any claims against a bankrupt tenant for unpaid future rent would be subject to statutory limitations that would likely result in our receipt of rental income that is substantially less than the contractually specified rent we are owed under the lease. In addition, any claim we have for unpaid past rent may not be paid in full. The large majority of our properties are leased to tenants who are not rated by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization. It is more difficult to assess the ability of a tenant that is not rated to meet its obligations to us than that of a rated tenant. Our failure or inability to meet certain terms of our revolving credit facility or term loan agreements would adversely affect our business and may prevent us from making distributions to our shareholders. Our revolving credit facility agreement includes various conditions to our borrowing and our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements include various financial and other covenants, including covenants requiring us to maintain certain minimum debt service coverage and leverage ratios, and events of default. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including matters which are beyond our control. If we are unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility, we may be unable to meet our business obligations or to grow by buying additional properties, or we may be required to sell some of our properties. If we default under our revolving credit facility or term loan agreements, our lenders may demand immediate payment and our lenders under our revolving credit facility may elect not to make further borrowings available to us. Additionally, during the continuance of any event of default under either agreement, we 33 Table of Contents will be limited or in some cases prohibited from making distributions on our shares. Any default under our revolving credit facility or term loan agreements would likely have serious and adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the market price of our shares to materially decline. In the future, we may obtain additional debt financing, and the covenants and conditions which apply to any such additional indebtedness may be more restrictive than the covenants and conditions contained in our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements. Defaults under our future debt could likely have the same consequences as described above. We may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay our debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. To retain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains) and satisfy a number of organizational and operational requirements to which REITs are subject. Accordingly, we generally will not be able to retain sufficient cash from operations to repay debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. Our business and growth strategies depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs to repay our debts, invest in our properties and fund acquisitions. Because of the volatility in the availability of capital to businesses on a global basis and the increased volatility in most debt and equity markets generally, our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is not guaranteed; we may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. Additionally, since we are a recently formed company with a limited operating history, it may be more difficult for us to raise reasonably priced capital than other companies, many of which have established financing programs and, in some cases, investment grade credit ratings. Though we may manage our leverage in a way that may eventually permit us to achieve an investment grade rating, we cannot assure that we will be able to achieve an investment grade rating or when we might do so. If we are unable to achieve an investment grade rating, we believe our ability to issue reasonably priced unsecured debt may be limited. If we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, our business and growth strategies may fail and we may be unable to remain a REIT. We may be unable to acquire additional properties and grow our business. An element of our business plan involves the acquisition of additional properties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate attractive acquisition opportunities or that acquisitions we make will be successful. Notwithstanding pre-acquisition due diligence, we do not believe that it is possible to fully understand a property before it is owned and operated for an extended period of time; therefore, we could acquire a property with undisclosed defects, and we might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired property. Newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. We might never realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition. After our acquisition of a property, the market in which the property is located may experience unexpected changes that adversely affect the property's value. The occupancy of properties that we acquire may decline during our ownership, which would be of particular consequence as our properties are typically single tenant leased, and rents that are in effect at the time a property is acquired may decline thereafter. Also, acquisitions may not yield the returns we expect and acquisitions financed with debt or new equity issuances may result in shareholder dilution. For these reasons, among others, our business plan to acquire additional properties may not succeed or may cause us losses. 34 Table of Contents We face significant competition. We face significant competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, individuals and public and private companies. Because of competition, we may be unable to, or may pay a significantly increased purchase price to, acquire a desired property. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and management resources than we have. In addition, substantially all of our properties face competition for tenants. Some competing properties may be newer, better located or more attractive to tenants. Competing properties may have lower rates of occupancy than our properties, which may result in competing owners offering available space at lower rents than we offer at our properties. This competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge. Ownership of real estate is subject to environmental and climate change risks. Ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. Various federal and state laws impose liabilities upon property owners, such as us, for any environmental damages arising at, or migrating from, properties they own or occupy, and we cannot assure that we will not be held liable for environmental investigation and clean up at, or near, our properties, including at sites we own and lease to our tenants. As an owner or previous owner of properties which contain environmental hazards, we also may be liable to pay damages to governmental agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties. Moreover, the costs and damages which may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project and may be substantial. Although our leases generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from a tenant's activities on the property, we could be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest. We cannot assure that our tenants will satisfy their indemnification obligations, if any, under our leases. Furthermore, the discovery of contamination or violations of environmental laws on any of our properties could lead to significant remediation costs or fines, penalties, or other liabilities or obligations attributable to the tenant of that property. Such liabilities or obligations may affect a tenant's ability to make payments to us, including rental payments and, where applicable, indemnification payments. When we acquired the Initial Properties from CWH, we agreed to indemnify CWH against all environmental liabilities with respect to the Initial Properties. Certain of our properties are used or have been used for industrial purposes. Though we have reviewed these and our other properties for potential environmental liabilities and have established a reserve for potential costs that may be incurred as a result of environmental contamination, we cannot assure that we have identified all potential environmental liabilities or that our reserve will be sufficient to cover any costs we may incur relating to environmental matters. Some of these properties contain, or may have contained, or are adjacent to or near other properties that contain, or may have contained, underground storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous or toxic substances. Our exposure to these tanks creates the potential for the release of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances onto our properties. In addition, certain of our properties are on or are adjacent to or near other properties upon which others, including former owners or tenants, have engaged, or may in the future engage, in activities that may release petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. We do not have any insurance designated to limit any losses that we may incur as a result of known or unknown environmental conditions which are not caused by an insured event, such as, for 35 Table of Contents example, fire or flood. As of December 31, 2013, we had reserved approximately $8.1 million for potential environmental liabilities. The environmental reserve CWH applied to the Initial Properties historically did not vary significantly from year to year and the actual historical costs to remediate certain environmental issues have not deviated significantly from the corresponding reserve amount. Nevertheless, environmental exposures are difficult to assess and estimate for numerous reasons, including uncertainty about the extent of contamination, alternative treatment methods that may be applied, location of the property which subjects it to differing local laws and regulations and their interpretations, as well as the time it takes to remediate contamination. In developing reserves for potential environmental liability on a property by property basis, we consider among other things, enacted laws and regulations, assessments of contamination and surrounding geology, quality of information available, currently available technologies for treatment, alternative methods of remediation and prior experience. Environmental reserves are based on estimates which are subject to significant change and are adjusted as the remediation treatment progresses, as circumstances change and as environmental contingencies become more clearly defined and reasonably estimable. We do not believe that there are environmental conditions at any of our properties that will materially and adversely affect us. However, we cannot assure that environmental conditions present at our properties or costs we may be required to incur in the future to address environmental contamination will not materially and adversely affect us. We believe any asbestos in our buildings is contained in accordance with current regulations, and we have no current plans to remove it. If we removed the asbestos or demolished these properties, certain environmental regulations govern the manner in which the asbestos must be handled and removed, and we could incur substantial costs complying with such regulations. The current political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations which are intended to limit carbon emissions. We believe these laws being enacted or proposed may cause energy costs at our properties to increase. Laws enacted to mitigate climate change may make some of our buildings obsolete or cause us to make material investments in our properties which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding climate change matters and their possible adverse impact on us, please see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Impact of Climate Change." Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities. In addition to the risks related to environmental hazards and climate change, our business is subject to other risks associated with real estate ownership, including: •the illiquid nature of real estate markets which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions; •the subjectivity of real estate valuations and changes in such valuations over time; •costs that may be incurred relating to property maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in governmental regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act; •legislative and regulatory developments that may occur at the federal, state and local levels that have direct or indirect impact on the ownership, leasing and operation of our properties; •property and casualty losses; and •litigation incidental to our business. 36 Table of Contents We have substantial debt obligations and may incur additional debt. As of December 31, 2013, we had $536.1 million in debt outstanding, which was 30.9% of our total book capitalization. Our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, including secured debt. If we default in paying any of our debts or honoring our debt covenants, it may create one or more cross defaults, our debts may be accelerated and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process. Insurance on our properties may not adequately cover all losses and uninsured losses could materially and adversely affect us. Generally, our tenants are responsible for the costs of insurance coverage for the properties we lease to them, including for casualty, including fire and extended coverage, and liability. Either we purchase the insurance ourselves and our tenants are required to reimburse us, or the tenants buy the insurance directly and are required to list us as an insured party. Depending upon the location of the property, including our properties located in Hawaii, losses of a catastrophic nature, such as those caused by tsunamis, hurricanes, flooding, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes, may be covered by insurance policies with limitations such as large deductibles or co-payments that a tenant may not be able to meet. Under certain circumstances insurance proceeds may not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to an affected property and we could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, we do not have any insurance designated to limit any losses that we may incur as a result of known or unknown environmental conditions which are not caused by an insured event, such as, for example, fire or flood. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, including financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personal identifying information of tenants and lease data. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting and storing confidential tenant information, such as individually identifiable information relating to financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of the data maintained in our information systems, it is possible that our security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning, or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could materially and adversely affect us. Changes in lease accounting standards may materially and adversely affect us. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has proposed accounting rules that would require companies to capitalize all leases on their balance sheets by recognizing a lessee's rights and obligations. If such a proposal is adopted, many companies that account for certain leases on an "off balance sheet" basis would be required to account for such leases "on balance sheet." This change would remove many of the differences in the way companies account for owned property and leased property, and could have a material effect on various aspects of our tenants' businesses, including their credit quality and the factors they consider in deciding whether to own or lease properties. If the proposal is adopted, it could cause companies that lease properties to prefer shorter lease terms, in an 37 Table of Contents effort to reduce the leasing liability required to be recorded on their balance sheets. The proposal could also make lease renewal options less attractive, as, under certain circumstances, the rule would require a tenant to assume that a renewal right will be exercised and accrue a liability relating to the longer lease term. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and our ability to rely on the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common shares less attractive to investors, may reduce the trading volume of our common shares, may depress the price of our common shares and may result in increased volatility in the price of our common shares. We are currently an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act, and we are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. To the extent that we have taken or in the future take advantage of any of these exemptions, we do not know if some investors will find our common shares less attractive. The result may be a less active trading market for our common shares and the price of our common shares may be more volatile or depressed. Risks Related to our Securities We cannot assure that we will continue to make distributions to our shareholders, and distributions we may make may include a return of capital. We intend to continue to make regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However: •our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant events, occur; •our making of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements and may be subject to restrictions in future debt we may incur; and •any distributions will be made in the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend upon various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including our results of operations, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectation of our future capital requirements and operating performance, including our FFO, our Normalized FFO, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements (including those in our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements), tax law requirements to qualify for taxation as and remain a REIT, restrictions under Maryland law and our expected needs and availability of cash to pay our obligations. For these reasons, among others, our distribution rate may decline or we may cease making distributions. Also, our distributions may include a return of capital. 38 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Relationships with CWH and RMR CWH owns approximately 44.1% of our common shares. As a result, investors in our securities will have less influence over our business than shareholders of most other publicly owned companies. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, CWH owned approximately 44.1% of our outstanding common shares. For so long as CWH continues to retain a significant ownership stake in us, CWH may be able to elect all of the members of our Board of Trustees, including our Independent Trustees, and may effectively control the outcome of shareholder actions. As a result, CWH may have the ability to control all matters affecting us, including: •the composition of our Board of Trustees and, through our Board of Trustees, determinations with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers; •determinations with respect to mergers and other business combinations; •our acquisition or disposition of assets; •our financing activities; •amendments to our transaction agreement with CWH; •amendments to our management agreements with RMR; •the making of distributions on our common shares; and •the number of common shares available for issuance under our equity compensation plan. CWH's significant ownership in us and resulting ability to effectively control us may discourage transactions involving a change of control, including transactions in which a holder of our common shares might otherwise receive a premium for their common shares over the then current market price. CWH is currently subject to a written consent solicitation by a group of shareholders that seek to remove CWH's entire board of trustees. Should these shareholders be successful and a new CWH board of trustees be elected, CWH may pursue a different, unknown course with its equity investment in our company. CWH's ability to sell its ownership stake in us and speculation about such possible sales may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. CWH is not prohibited from selling some or all of the common shares it owns. In March 2013, we entered into a registration agreement with CWH, pursuant to which we agreed to register for resale by CWH up to 22,000,000 of our common shares owned by CWH. We currently have an effective registration statement on Form S-3 that may provide for that possible resale by CWH. CWH has a history of successfully divesting certain of its properties into new REITs and then selling or distributing to its shareholders its stake in such REITs over time. In addition, speculation by the press, stock analysts, our shareholders or others regarding CWH's intention to dispose of its common shares could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. So long as CWH continues to retain significant ownership in us, the market price of our common shares may be adversely impacted. Accordingly, our common shares may be worth less than they would be if CWH did not have significant ownership in us. We are dependent upon RMR to manage our business and implement our growth strategy. We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us under contracts with RMR. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR and its ability to manage our properties, identify and complete our acquisitions and dispositions and to execute our financing 39 Table of Contents strategy. Accordingly, our business is dependent upon RMR's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming internally managed or by hiring another manager. Also, in the event RMR is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the fees we pay RMR under our management agreements, and as a result our expenses may increase. Our management structure and agreements and relationships with CWH and RMR may restrict our investment activities and may create conflicts of interest or the perception of such conflicts. RMR is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has discretion in determining the types of properties that will be appropriate investments for us, as well as our individual operating and investment decisions. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our operating activities and investments but it does not review or approve each decision made by RMR on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR. RMR is beneficially owned by our Managing Trustees, Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. RMR also acts as the manager for CWH and three other NYSE-listed REITs: GOV, which owns properties that are majority leased to government tenants; HPT, which owns hotels and travel centers; and SNH, which primarily owns healthcare, senior living properties and medical office buildings. RMR also provides services to other publicly and privately owned companies, including FVE, which operates senior living communities; TA, which operates and franchises travel centers and convenience stores; and Sonesta, which operates, manages and franchises hotels, resorts and cruise ships. These multiple responsibilities to public companies and other businesses could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR and Messrs. Barry and Adam Portnoy. Also, RMR's multiple responsibilities to us and to other companies to which it provides managements services, including CWH, may create potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts of interest. Our management agreements were negotiated between related parties, and the terms, including the fees payable to RMR, may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if they were negotiated between unrelated parties. In our management agreements with RMR, we acknowledge that RMR may engage in other activities or businesses and act as the manager to any other person or entity (including other REITs) even though such person or entity has investment policies and objectives similar to those of ours and we are not entitled to preferential treatment in receiving information, recommendations and other services from RMR. Accordingly, we may lose investment opportunities to, and may compete for tenants with, other businesses managed by RMR Barry Portnoy is Chairman and an employee of RMR and Adam Portnoy is President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of RMR. All of the members of our Board of Trustees, including our Independent Trustees, are members of one or more boards of trustees or directors of other companies to which RMR provides management services. One of our Independent Trustees, William A. Lamkin, is an Independent Trustee of CWH. Our executive officers are also officers of RMR, CWH or other companies to which RMR provides management services. In addition, Adam Portnoy is President of CWH. The foregoing individuals may hold equity in or positions with other companies to which RMR provides management services. Such equity ownership and positions by our Trustees and officers could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR and its related parties. 40 Table of Contents Our management arrangements with RMR may discourage our change of control. A default under our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements would occur if RMR ceases to act as our business manager and property manager, unless waived by our lenders holding 2/3 of the aggregate credit exposure under the applicable agreement. RMR is able to terminate its management agreements with us if we experience a change of control. We may be unable to duplicate, without considerable cost increases, the quality and depth of management available to us by contracting with RMR if we become internally managed or if we contract with other parties for management services. For these reasons, our management agreements with RMR may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for our common shares. The potential for conflicts of interest as a result of our management structure may provoke dissident shareholder activities that result in significant costs. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident shareholder trustee nominations and dissident shareholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. Our relationships with CWH, RMR, AIC, the other businesses and entities to which RMR provides management services, Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy and with other related parties of RMR may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention even if the action is unfounded. We may experience losses from our business dealings with AIC. We have invested approximately $5.3 million in AIC, we have purchased substantially all our property insurance in a program designed and reinsured in part by AIC, and we periodically consider the possibilities for expanding our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. We, RMR, CWH and five other companies to which RMR provides management services each own 12.5% of AIC, and we and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined insurance program designed and reinsured in part by AIC. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. While we believe we have in the past benefitted from these arrangements, these beneficial financial results may not occur in the future, and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may not operate profitably. Accordingly, financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may not be achieved in the future, and we may experience losses from these dealings. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Ownership limitations and certain provisions in our declaration of trust and bylaws, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals. Our declaration of trust prohibits any shareholder other than CWH and RMR and their affiliates, and certain persons who have been exempted by our Board of Trustees, from owning (directly and by attribution) more than 9.8% of the number or value of shares of any class or series of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest, including our common shares. This provision of our declaration of trust is intended to assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC, and otherwise to promote our orderly governance. However, this provision also inhibits acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a shareholder may 41 Table of Contents consider favorable. Additionally, provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws or under Maryland law may have a similar impact, including, for example, provisions relating to: •the division of our Trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change of control (although our Board of Trustees has determined to recommend that our shareholders approve at our 2014 annual meeting of shareholders an amendment to our declaration of trust to permit the annual election of all Trustees); •shareholder voting rights and standards for the election of trustees and other provisions which require larger majorities for approval of actions which are not approved by our Trustees than for actions which are approved by our Trustees; •the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws and to fill vacancies on our Board of Trustees; •the fact that only our Board of Trustees may call shareholder meetings and that shareholders are not entitled to act without a meeting; •required qualifications for an individual to serve as a trustee and a requirement that certain of our Trustees be "Managing Trustees" and other Trustees be "Independent Trustees", as defined in our governing documents; •limitations on the ability of our shareholders to propose nominees for election as trustees and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of our shareholders; •limitations on the ability of our shareholders to remove our Trustees; and •the authority of our Board of Trustees to create and issue new classes or series of shares (including shares with voting rights and other rights and privileges that may deter a change in control) and issue additional common shares. In addition, our shareholders agreement with respect to AIC provides that AIC and the other shareholders of AIC may have rights to acquire our interests in AIC in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience some other change in control. Our ownership interest in AIC may prevent shareholders from accumulating large share ownership, from nominating or serving as Trustees, or from taking actions to otherwise control our business. As an owner of AIC, we are licensed and approved as an insurance holding company; and any shareholder who owns or controls 10% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to solicit proxies for election of, or to serve as, one of our Trustees or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Trustees may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators. These pre-approval procedures may discourage or prevent investors from purchasing our securities, from nominating persons to serve as our Trustees or from taking other actions. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Trustees and officers are limited. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our Trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our Trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or 42 Table of Contents •active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our bylaws and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify any present or former Trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service in that capacity. However, except with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, we will indemnify any person referenced in the previous sentence in connection with a proceeding initiated by such person against us only if such proceeding is authorized by our Board of Trustees. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and indemnification agreements or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Disputes with CWH and RMR and shareholder litigation against us or our Trustees and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Our contracts with CWH and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly our bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders against us or against our Trustees and officers, including derivative and class actions (but excluding claims under the federal securities laws), may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against CWH, RMR or our Trustees and officers if the disputes were referred to arbitration. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. We may change our operational, financing and investment policies without shareholder approval and we may become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational, financing and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Further, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that we may incur. Our Board of Trustees may alter or eliminate our current policy on borrowing at any time without shareholder approval. If this policy changed, we could become more highly leveraged, which could result in an increase in our debt service costs. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations. In addition, a change in our investment policies, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, real estate market fluctuations and liquidity risk. 43 Table of Contents We cannot assure that we will continue to make distributions to our shareholders, and distributions we may make may include a return of capital. We intend to continue to make regular quarterly distributions on our common shares. However: •our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant adverse events, occur; •our making of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements and may be subject to restrictions in future debt we may incur; and •any distributions will be at the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend upon various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including our results of operations, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectation of our future capital requirements, our FFO, our Normalized FFO, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements (including those in our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements), tax law requirements to qualify for taxation as a REIT and restrictions under Maryland law. For these reasons, among others, our distribution rate may decline or we may cease making distributions. Also, our distributions may include a return of capital. Our audited financial statements may not be representative of our results as an independent public company. We completed our IPO on March 12, 2012 and, since that date, we have been operating as an independent public company. Our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 reflect our operations as an independent public company only since March 12, 2012. Accordingly, our audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 do not necessarily reflect what our financial position, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been an independent entity for all of and prior to the year ended December 31, 2012. This financial information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position, cash flows or expenses will be in the future. It is impossible for us to accurately estimate all adjustments attributable to the significant changes to our cost structure, funding and operations as a result of our creation, including potential increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale and increased costs associated with being a separate publicly traded company. If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of integrated internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. In connection with operating as a public company, we are required to provide reliable financial statements and reports to our shareholders. To monitor the accuracy and reliability of our financial reporting, we utilize an internal audit function provided by RMR that oversees our internal controls. RMR has documented and developed for us an accounting policy framework and procedures for our use, but we cannot assure that such policies and procedures will be adequate to provide reasonable assurance to our shareholders regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements. In addition, RMR has developed and documented policies and procedures for us with respect to company-wide business processes and cycles in order to implement effective internal control over financial reporting. While we intend to undertake substantial work to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and RMR has substantial experience in complying with these sections of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we cannot assure that we will be successful in implementing or maintaining effective internal control over our financial reporting and we may determine in the future that our existing internal controls need improvement. If we fail to implement 44 Table of Contents and comply with proper overall controls, we could be materially harmed or we could fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, the existence of a material weakness or significant deficiency could result in errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in increased costs to remediate any deficiencies, attract regulatory scrutiny or lawsuits and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a substantial decline in the market price of our common shares. Additionally, for so long as we are an emerging growth company, we do not have to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, if we cease to be an emerging growth company, we will be required to obtain an auditor attestation regarding our internal control over financial reporting from our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to these Section 404 requirements. Risks Related to Our Taxation The loss of our tax status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes could have significant adverse consequences. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal and state income taxes. However, actual qualification as a REIT under the IRC depends on satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe that we have been organized and have operated, and will continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner that qualified and will continue to qualify us to be taxed under the IRC as a REIT. However, we cannot be certain that, upon review or audit, the IRS will agree with this conclusion. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that the federal government will not someday eliminate REITs under the IRC. Maintaining our status as a REIT will require us to continue to satisfy certain tests concerning, among other things, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. In order to meet these requirements, it may be necessary for us to sell or forgo attractive investments. If we cease to be a REIT, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we will be in breach under our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the value of our shares likely would decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our tax status as a REIT for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying as a REIT for the next four taxable years. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates. Dividends payable by U.S. corporations to noncorporate shareholders, such as individuals, trusts and estates, are generally eligible for reduced tax rates. Distributions paid by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for these reduced rates. The more favorable rates for corporate dividends may cause investors to perceive that an investment in a REIT is less attractive than an investment in a non-REIT entity that pays dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our shares. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order for federal corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the IRC. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the 45 Table of Contents actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. If we do not have other funds available in these situations we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our shareholders' equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our shares. Even if we qualify and remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we qualify and remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, excise taxes, state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes, and other taxes. See "Business—Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation as a REIT." In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, prevent the recognition of certain types of non-cash income, or avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets and operations through taxable REIT subsidiaries or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 