Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Volatility in the global energy infrastructure construction and maintenance market, particularly as a result of a significant decline in oil and natural gas prices and refining margins, has in the past reduced, and could in the future reduce, the demand for the products we supply, which could cause our net sales and margins to decrease. Proceeds from the sale of products to the global energy infrastructure market constitute a significant portion of our net sales. As a result, we depend upon the global energy infrastructure market, and in particular the oil and natural gas industry, and upon the ability and willingness of industry participants to make capital and operating expenditures to explore for, develop and produce, transport, process and refine oil and natural gas. The industry’s willingness to make these expenditures depends largely upon the availability of attractive drilling prospects, regulatory requirements and limitations, the prevailing view of future oil and natural gas prices, refinery margins and general economic conditions. As we have experienced in 2010, 2011 and continuing in 2012, volatile oil and natural gas prices can lead to variable capital expenditures and infrastructure project spending by industry participants, which in turn can affect the demand for the products we supply. Further sustained decreases in capital expenditures in the oil and natural gas industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many factors affect the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas and refined products, thereby affecting our net sales and cost of sales, including: • the level of U.S. and worldwide oil and natural gas production; • the level of U.S. and worldwide supplies of, and demand for, oil, natural gas and refined products; • the discovery rates of new oil and natural gas resources; • the expected cost of delivery of oil, natural gas and refined products; • the availability of attractive oil and natural gas fields for production, which may be affected by governmental action or environmental policy, which may restrict exploration and development prospects; • U.S. and worldwide refinery utilization rates; • the amount of capital available for development and maintenance of oil, natural gas and refined products infrastructure; • changes in the cost or availability of transportation infrastructure and pipeline capacity; • levels of oil and natural gas exploration activity; • national, governmental and other political requirements, including the ability of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to set and maintain production levels and pricing; • the impact of political instability, terrorist activities, piracy or armed hostilities involving one or more oil and natural gas producing nations; • pricing and other actions taken by competitors that impact the market; • the failure by industry participants to implement planned capital projects successfully or to realize the benefits expected for those projects; • the cost of, and relative political momentum in respect of, developing alternative energy sources; • U.S. and non-U.S. governmental laws and regulations, especially anti-bribery law enforcement in underdeveloped nations, environmental and safety laws and regulations (including mandated changes in fuel consumption and specifications), trade laws, commodities and derivatives trading regulations and tax policies; • the impact of proposed legislation that may repeal or significantly reduce certain tax incentives and subsidies available to oil and natural gas companies; • technological advances in the oil and natural gas industry; • natural disasters, including hurricanes, tsunamis, earthquakes and other weather-related events; and • the overall global economic environment. Oil and natural gas prices and processing and refining margins have been and are expected to remain volatile. This volatility may cause our customers to change their strategies and capital expenditure levels. We are experiencing, have experienced in the past and may experience in the future, significant fluctuations in our business, financial condition and results of operations based on these changes. In particular, such continued volatility in the oil, natural gas and refined products margins and markets more generally could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 10 The prices we pay and charge for steel products, and the availability of steel products generally, may fluctuate due to a number of factors beyond our control, which could materially and adversely affect the value of our inventory, business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We purchase large quantities of steel products from our suppliers for distribution to our customers. The steel industry as a whole is cyclical and at times pricing and availability of these products change depending on many factors outside of our control, such as general global economic conditions, competition, consolidation of steel producers, cost and availability of raw materials necessary to produce steel (such as iron ore, coking coal and steel scrap), production levels, labor costs, freight and shipping costs, natural disasters, political instability, import duties, tariffs and other trade restrictions, currency fluctuations and surcharges imposed by our suppliers. We seek to maintain our profit margins by attempting to increase the prices we charge for the products we supply in response to increases in the prices we pay for them. However, demand for the products we supply, the actions of our competitors, our contracts with certain of our customers and other factors largely out of our control will influence whether, and to what extent, we can pass any such steel cost increases and surcharges on to our customers. We may be unable to pass increased supply costs on to our customers because a portion of our net sales are derived from stocking program arrangements, contracts and MRO arrangements which provide certain customers time limited price protection, which may obligate us to sell products at a set price for a specific period or because of general competitive conditions. If we are unable to pass on higher costs and surcharges to our customers, or if we are unable to do so in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. Alternatively, if the price of steel decreases significantly or if demand for the products we supply decreases because of increased customer, manufacturer or distributor inventory levels of specialty steel pipe, pipe components, high yield structural steel products and valves, we may be required to reduce the prices we charge for the products we supply to remain competitive. These factors may affect our net sales, cost of sales and cash flow and may also require us to write-down the value of inventory on hand that we purchased prior to the steel price decreases, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Although we did not have any significant write-downs during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, there can be no assurances such write-downs will not occur in the future. Our business could also be negatively impacted by the importation of lower-cost specialty steel products into the U.S. market. An increase in the level of imported lower-cost products could adversely affect our business to the extent that we then have higher-cost products in inventory or if prices and margins are driven down by increased supplies of such products. These events could also have a material adverse effect on our net sales, cost of sales and results of operations. These risks may be heightened if recently imposed tariffs on certain imported competing products and oil country tubular goods are reduced, eliminated or allowed to expire. In addition, we expect an increase in the supply of certain steel products within the oil country tubular goods market over the next several years as existing manufacturers increase their capacity to produce such goods and as new manufacturing competitors enter the market. If this new supply is not supported by additional demand, our prices could be adversely impacted. If our sales prices decrease significantly or the demand for our products decreases as a result of these market conditions, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows We may experience unexpected supply shortages. We supply products from a wide variety of vendors and suppliers. In the future we may have difficulty obtaining the products we need from suppliers and manufacturers as a result of unexpected demand or production difficulties. Also, products may not be available to us in quantities sufficient to meet customer demand. Failure to fulfill customer orders in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on our relationships with these customers. Our inability to obtain products from suppliers and manufacturers in sufficient quantities to meet demand could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an inventory of products for which we do not have firm customer orders. As a result, if prices or sales volumes decline, our net sales, cost of sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our profitability, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected if we are unable to sell our inventory in a timely manner. Because we maintain substantial inventories of specialty steel products for which we do not have firm customer orders, there is a risk that we will be unable to sell our existing inventory at the volumes and prices we expect. For example, the value of our inventory could decline if the prices we are able to charge our customers decline. In that case, we may experience reduced margins or losses as we dispose of higher-cost products at reduced market prices. Although we did not incur significant losses related to inventory liquidation during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, there can be no assurance that such losses will not occur in the future. 11 Our ten largest customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales, and the loss of any of these customers could have a material, adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 32%, 35% and 30% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We may lose a customer for any number of reasons, including as a result of a merger or acquisition, the selection of another provider of specialty steel products, business failure or bankruptcy of the customer or dissatisfaction with our performance. Consistent with industry practice, we do not have long-term contracts with most of our major customers. Additionally our customers with whom we do not have fixed-term contracts have the ability to terminate their relationships with us at any time. Moreover, to the extent we have contracts with our major customers, these contracts generally may be discontinued with 30 days notice by either party, are not exclusive and do not require minimum levels of purchases. Loss of any of our major customers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flow. Loss of key suppliers could decrease our sales volumes and overall profitability. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, our ten largest suppliers accounted for approximately 61%, 65% and 48% of our purchases, respectively, with our single largest supplier accounting for approximately 25%, 26% and 14% of our purchases during the same periods, respectively. Consistent with industry practice, we do not have long-term contracts with most of our suppliers. Therefore, most of our suppliers have the ability to terminate their relationships with us or reduce their planned allocations of product to us at any time. The loss of any of these suppliers due to merger or acquisition, business failure, bankruptcy or other reason could put us at a competitive disadvantage by decreasing the availability or increasing the prices, or both, of products we supply, which in turn could result in a decrease in our sales volumes and overall profitability. Our business is sensitive to economic downturns and adverse credit market conditions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Aspects of our business, including demand for and availability of the products we supply, are dependent on, among other things, the state of the global economy and adverse conditions in the global credit markets. Our business has been affected in the past and may be affected in the future by the following: • our customers reducing or eliminating capital expenditures as a result of reduced demand from their customers; • our customers not being able to obtain sufficient funding at a reasonable cost or at all as a result of tightening credit markets, which may result in delayed or canceled projects or maintenance expenditures; • our customers not being able to pay us in a timely manner, or at all, as a result of declines in their cash flows or available credit; • experiencing supply shortages for certain products if our suppliers reduce production as a result of reduced demand for their products or as a result of limitations on their ability to access credit for their operations; • experiencing tighter credit terms from our suppliers, which could increase our working capital needs and potentially reduce our liquidity; and • the value of our inventory declining if the sales prices we are able to charge our customers decline. As a result of these and other effects, economic downturns have, and could in the future, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, market disruptions, such as the recent global economic recession, could adversely affect the creditworthiness of lenders under our debt facilities. Any reduced credit availability under our credit facilities could require us to seek other forms of liquidity through financing in the future and the availability of such financing will depend on market conditions prevailing at that time. We rely on our suppliers to meet the required specifications for the products we purchase from them, and we may have unreimbursed losses arising from our suppliers’ failure to meet such specifications. We rely on our suppliers to provide mill certifications that attest to the specifications and physical and chemical properties of the steel products that we purchase from them for resale. We generally do not undertake independent testing of any such steel but rely on our customers or assigned third-party inspection services to notify us of any products that do not conform to the specifications certified by the mill or equipment fabricators. We may be subject to customer claims and other damages if products purchased from our suppliers are deemed to not meet customer specifications. These damages could exceed any amounts that we are able to recover from our suppliers or under our insurance policies. Failure to provide products that meet our customer’s specifications would adversely affect our relationship with such customer, which could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. 12 Loss of third-party transportation providers upon which we depend, failure of such third-party transportation providers to deliver quality service or conditions negatively affecting the transportation industry could increase our costs and disrupt our operations. We depend upon third-party transportation providers for delivery of products to our customers. Shortages of transportation vessels, transportation disruptions or other adverse conditions in the transportation industry due to shortages of truck drivers, strikes, slowdowns, piracy, terrorism, disruptions in rail service, closures of shipping routes, unavailability of ports and port service for other reasons, increases in fuel prices and adverse weather conditions could increase our costs and disrupt our operations and our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. We cannot predict whether or to what extent any of these factors would affect our costs or otherwise harm our business. In addition, the failure of our third-party transportation providers to provide high quality customer service when delivering product to our customers would adversely affect our reputation and our relationship with our customers and could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Significant competition from a number of companies could reduce our market share and have an adverse effect on our selling prices, sales volumes and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry and compete against a number of other market participants, some of which have significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources than we do. We compete primarily on the basis of pricing, availability of specialty products and customer service. We may be unable to compete successfully with respect to these or other competitive factors. If we fail to compete effectively, we could lose market share to our competitors. Moreover, our competitors’ actions could have an adverse effect on our selling prices and sales volume. To compete for customers, we may elect to lower selling prices or offer increased services at a higher cost to us, each of which could impact our net sales, cost of sales and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Loss of key management or sales and customer service personnel could harm our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the skills, experience and efforts of management. While we have not experienced problems in the past attracting and retaining members of our management team, the loss of any or all of these individuals could materially and adversely affect our business. We do not carry key-man life insurance on any member of management other than a policy inherited by us for our E&I segment president. We must continue to develop and retain appropriate staff and management if we are to realize our goal of continued expansion and growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in the future. Because of the specialized nature of the products we supply and services we provide, generally only highly qualified and trained sales and customer service personnel have the necessary skills to market our products and provide product support to our customers. Such employees develop relationships with our customers that could be damaged or lost if these employees are not retained. We face intense competition for the hiring of these professionals. Any failure on our part to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified sales and customer service personnel could materially and adversely affect our business. In particular, our efforts to continue expansion internationally will be dependent on our ability to continue to hire and train a skilled and knowledgeable sales force to attract customers in these markets. In addition, a significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. The actual occurrence of any of these events could appreciably increase our cost structure and, as a result, materially impair our growth potential and our results of operations. The development of alternatives to steel product distributors in the supply chain in the industries in which we operate could cause a decrease in our net sales and results of operations and limit our ability to grow our business. If our customers were to acquire or develop the capability and desire to purchase products directly from our suppliers in a competitive fashion, it would likely reduce our sales volume and overall profitability. Our suppliers also could expand their own local sales forces, marketing capabilities and inventory stocking capabilities and sell more products directly to our customers. Likewise, customers could purchase from our suppliers directly in situations where large orders are being placed and where inventory and logistics support planning are not necessary in connection with the delivery of the products. These and other actions that remove us from, limit our role in, or reduce the value that our services provide in the distribution chain could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers that are pursuing unconventional or offshore oil and natural gas resources, or that are using new drilling and extraction technologies, such as horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, could face regulatory, political and economic challenges that may result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays as well as adversely affect our business and operating results. The pursuit of unconventional oil and natural gas resources, the expansion of offshore drilling and exploration, as well as new drilling and extraction technologies, including hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling, have received significant regulatory and political focus. Hydraulic fracturing is an essential technology for the development and production of unconventional oil and natural gas resources. The hydraulic fracturing process in the U.S. is typically subject to state and local regulation, and has been exempt from federal regulation under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act since 2005 (except when the fracturing fluids or propping agents contain diesel fuels). Based in part on increasing public awareness of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water, Congress has considered, and may in the future consider, legislation to impose additional federal requirements on hydraulic fracturing. The Department of Interior (with respect to hydraulic fracturing on federal lands) and several states are considering or have adopted regulations that require the disclosure of the chemical constituents in hydraulic fracturing fluids. Several states have enacted similar chemical disclosure regulations. The availability of this information could make it easier for third parties to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. 13 The United States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") is conducting a comprehensive study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, and a committee of the House of Representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. In August and November 2011, the United States Department of Energy Shale Gas Subcommittee ("DOE") issued two reports on measures that can be taken to reduce the potential environmental impacts of shale gas production. The results of the DOE and EPA studies and House investigation could lead to restrictions on hydraulic fracturing. In April 2012, the EPA adopted new regulations under the federal Clean Air Act requiring flaring of gas from these wells and “green completions” by 2015. The EPA has also announced its intention to propose regulations by 2014 under the federal Clean Water Act to regulate wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other gas production. In addition, various state and local governments, as well as the United States Department of Interior and certain river basin commissions, have taken steps to increase regulatory oversight of hydraulic fracturing through additional permit requirements, operational restrictions, disclosure obligations and temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing in certain local jurisdictions or in environmentally sensitive areas such as watersheds. Any future federal, state or local laws or regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete oil and natural gas wells in certain formations. Although we do not conduct any hydraulic fracturing operations, any decrease in drilling activity by our customers resulting from the increased regulatory restrictions and costs associated with hydraulic fracturing, or any permanent, temporary or regional prohibition of the uses of this technology, could adversely affect demand for the products we supply and our results of operations. Changes in the payment terms we receive from our suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. The payment terms we receive from our suppliers are dependent on several factors, including, but not limited to, our payment history with the supplier, the supplier’s credit granting policies, contractual provisions, our credit profile, industry conditions, global economic conditions, our recent operating results, financial position and cash flows and the supplier’s ability to obtain credit insurance on amounts that we owe them. Adverse changes in any of these factors, many of which may not be wholly in our control, may induce our suppliers to shorten the payment terms of their invoices. For example, as a result of the worldwide economic recession and its impact on steel demand and prices, some of our suppliers have experienced a reduction in trade credit insurance available to them for sales to foreign accounts. This reduction in trade credit insurance has resulted in certain suppliers reducing the available credit they grant to us and/or requiring other forms of credit support, including letters of credit and payment guarantees, which reduces our overall borrowing availability. Since we incur costs for trade finance instruments , this trend has increased our borrowing costs, although not significantly. Given the large amounts and volume of our purchases from suppliers, a change in payment terms may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers, and consequently may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a holding company with no revenue generating operations of our own. We depend on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to make distributions to us. We are a holding company with no business operations, sources of income or assets of our own other than our ownership interests in our subsidiaries. Because all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries, our cash flow and our ability to repay debt that we currently have and that we may incur in the future and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders are dependent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from our subsidiaries. Payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our subsidiaries to us are subject to restrictions imposed by our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing EMC's senior secured notes due 2020 (the "2020 Notes"). Our revolving credit agreement limits our ability to allocate cash flow or resources among certain subsidiaries. See Item 7 — Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Debt for additional information. In addition, payments or distributions from our subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. In particular, EMGH, our principal U.K. subsidiary, may only pay dividends out of distributable profits under English law. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. Any right that we have to receive any assets of or distributions from any of our subsidiaries upon the bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or reorganization of any such subsidiary, or to realize proceeds from the sale of their assets, will be junior to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt issued by that subsidiary. 14 Risks generally associated with acquisitions, including identifying and integrating future acquisitions, could adversely affect our growth strategy. A key element of our growth strategy has been, and is expected to be, the pursuit of acquisitions of other businesses that either expand or complement our global platform. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all, because of uncertainty in respect of competition for such acquisitions, availability of financial resources or regulatory approval or other reasons. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify additional acquisitions or that we would realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions. Integrating businesses involves a number of risks, including the possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations, unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations and systems, problems concerning assimilating and retaining the employees of the acquired business, accounting issues that arise in connection with the acquisition, including amortization of acquired assets, challenges in retaining customers, assumption of known or unknown material liabilities or regulatory non-compliance issues and potentially adverse short term effects on cash flow or operating results. Acquired businesses may require a greater amount of capital, infrastructure or other spending than we anticipate. In addition, we may issue equity, which could dilute current stockholders' percentage ownership, or incur debt to finance future acquisitions, which could increase our leverage. Further, we may face additional risks to the extent that we make acquisitions of international companies or involving international operations, including, among other things, compliance with foreign regulatory requirements, political risks, difficulties in enforcement of third-party contractual obligations and integration of international operations with our domestic operations. If we are unable to successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our growth strategy could be adversely impacted. Our global operations, in particular those in emerging markets, are subject to various risks which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to certain risks associated with doing business globally, particularly in emerging markets. Our net sales outside of the U.S. represented approximately 21%, 21% and 28% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. One of our growth strategies is to pursue opportunities for our business in a variety of geographies outside the U.S., which could be adversely affected by the risks set forth below. Our operations are subject to risks associated with the political, regulatory and economic conditions of the countries in which we operate, such as: • the burden of complying with multiple and possibly conflicting laws and any unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, including those disrupting purchasing and distribution capabilities; • foreign currency exchange controls, import and export restrictions and tariffs, including restrictions promulgated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and other trade protection regulations and measures; • political risks, including risks of loss due to civil disturbances, acts of terrorism, acts of war, piracy, guerrilla activities and insurrection; • unstable economic, financial and market conditions and increased expenses as a result of inflation, or higher interest rates; • difficulties in enforcement of third-party contractual obligations and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; • foreign governmental regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local contractors or by regulations requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction; • difficulty in staffing and managing international operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; • workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the U.S.; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates to the extent that our assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the country where we operate; • potentially adverse tax consequences from changes in tax laws, requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries and restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries; • exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; and • enhanced costs associated with complying with increasing anti-corruption and anti-money laundering governmental regulation. 15 Any one of these factors could materially adversely affect our sales of products or services to global customers or harm our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. In the ordinary course of our business, we enter into purchase and sales commitments that are denominated in currencies that differ from the functional currency used by our operating subsidiaries. Currency exchange rate fluctuations can create volatility in our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, these transactions, if entered into, will not eliminate that risk entirely. To the extent that we are unable to match sales received in foreign currencies with expenses paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Additionally, because our combined consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, if we generate net sales or earnings within entities whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar, the translation of such amounts into U.S. dollars can result in an increase or decrease in the amount of our net sales or earnings. With respect to our potential exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations, for the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 21% of our net sales originated from subsidiaries outside of the U.S. in currencies including, among others, the pound sterling and euro. As a result, a material decrease in the value of these currencies may have a negative impact on our reported net sales, net income and cash flows. Any currency controls implemented by local monetary authorities in countries where we currently operate could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to the global nature of our business, we could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA, similar antibribery laws in other jurisdictions in which we operate and various international trade and export laws. The global nature of our business creates various domestic and local regulatory challenges. FCPA, and similar antibribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit U.S.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The U.K. Bribery Act 2010 prohibits certain entities from making improper payments to governmental officials and to commercial entities. Our policies mandate compliance with these and other anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that experience corruption by government officials to some degree and, in certain circumstances, compliance with antibribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our global operations require us to import and export to and from myriad countries, which geographically stretches our compliance obligations. To help ensure compliance, our anti-bribery policy and training on a global basis provide our employees with procedures, guidelines and information about anti-bribery obligations and compliance. Further, we require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with anti-bribery laws. We also have procedures and controls in place designed to ensure internal and external compliance. However, such anti-bribery policy, training, internal controls and procedures will not always protect us from reckless, criminal or unintentional acts committed by our employees, agents or other persons associated with us. If we are found to be in violation of the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 or other anti-bribery laws (either due to acts or inadvertence of our employees, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our geographic market areas in the southeastern U.S. and APAC are susceptible to tropical storms, or, in more severe cases, hurricanes and typhoons, respectively. Such weather events can disrupt our operations or those of our customers or suppliers, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. Additionally, we may experience communication disruptions with our customers, suppliers and employees. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, damage caused by future hurricanes and tropical storms will affect our operations or the economies in those market areas. Such weather events could result in a disruption of our purchasing and distribution capabilities, an interruption of our business that exceeds our insurance coverage, our inability to collect from customers, the inability of our suppliers to provide product, the inability of third-party transportation providers to deliver product and increased operating costs. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of hurricanes or other adverse weather events. 16 Our sales backlog is subject to unexpected fluctuations, adjustments and cancellations and may not be a reliable indicator of our future earnings. Our sales backlog represents management’s estimate of potential future net sales that may result from contracts or orders currently awarded to us by our customers. Sales backlog is determined by the amount of undelivered third-party customer purchase orders and may be revised upward or downward, or canceled by our customers in certain instances. There can be no assurance that sales backlog will ultimately be realized as net sales, or that we will earn a profit on any of our sales backlog. Realization of net sales from our sales backlog is dependent on, among other things, our ability to fulfill purchase orders and transfer title to customers, which is in turn dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to obtain products from our suppliers. Further, because of the project nature of our business, sales orders and sales backlog can vary materially from period to period. Our operations and those of our customers are subject to environmental laws and regulations. Liabilities or claims with respect to environmental matters could materially and adversely affect our business. Our operations and those of our customers are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including those limiting the discharge and release of pollutants into the environment and those regulating the transport, use, treatment, storage, disposal and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous materials, substances and wastes. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of fines and penalties, imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations or imposing additional compliance requirements on such operations. In addition, certain environmental laws can impose strict, joint and several liability without regard to fault on responsible parties, including past and present owners and operators of sites, related to cleaning up sites at which hazardous wastes or materials were disposed or released even if the disposals or releases were in compliance with applicable law at the time of those actions. Our customers operate primarily in the upstream, midstream and downstream end-markets for oil and natural gas, each of which is highly regulated due to high level of perceived environmental risk. Liability under environmental laws and regulations could result in cancellation of or reduction in future oil and natural gas related activity. Future events, such as the discovery of currently unknown contamination or other matters, spills caused by future pipeline ruptures, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or their interpretation and more vigorous enforcement policies by regulatory agencies, may give rise to additional expenditures or liabilities for our operations or those of our customers, which could impair our operations and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, various current and likely future federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations could regulate climate change and the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide and methane. Future climate change regulation could reduce demand for the use of fossil fuels, which could adversely impact the operations of our customers. We cannot predict the impact that such regulation may have, or that climate change may otherwise have, on our business. Increased regulatory focus on worker safety and health, including pipeline safety, could subject us and our customers to significant liabilities and compliance expenditures. Companies undertaking oil and natural gas extraction, processing and transmission infrastructure across the upstream, midstream and downstream end-markets are facing increasingly strict safety requirements as they manage and build infrastructure. As a result, our operations and those of our customers are subject to increasingly strict federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing worker safety and employee health, including pipeline safety and exposure to hazardous materials. Future environmental and safety compliance could require the use of more specialized products and higher rates of maintenance, repair and replacement to ensure the integrity of our customers’ facilities. The Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety Act has established a regulatory framework that mandates comprehensive testing and replacement programs for transmission lines across the U.S. Pipeline safety is subject to state regulation as well as by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration of the United States Department of Transportation, which, among other things, regulates natural gas and hazardous liquid pipelines. The Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011 bill that would further enhance federal regulation of pipeline safety passed Congress in December 2011. From time to time, administrative or judicial proceedings or investigations may be brought by private parties or government agencies, or stricter enforcement could arise, with respect to pipeline safety and employee health matters. Such proceedings or investigations, stricter enforcement or increased regulation of pipeline safety could result in fines or costs or a disruption of our operations and those of our customers, all of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We could be subject to personal injury, property damage, product liability, warranty, environmental and other claims involving allegedly defective products that we supply. The products we supply are often used in potentially hazardous applications that could result in death, personal injury, property damage, environmental damage, loss of production, punitive damages and consequential damages. Actual or claimed defects in the products we supply may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting potentially large claims despite our not having manufactured the products alleged to have been defective. We may offer warranty terms that exceed those of the supplier, or we and the supplier may be financially unable to cover the losses and damages caused by any defective products that it manufactured and we supplied. Finally, the third-party supplier may be in a jurisdiction where it is impossible or very difficult to enforce our rights to obtain contribution in the event of a claim against us. 17 We may not have adequate insurance for potential liabilities. In the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to various product and non-product related claims, laws and administrative proceedings seeking damages or other remedies arising out of our commercial operations. We maintain insurance to cover our potential exposure for most claims and losses. However, our insurance coverage is subject to various exclusions, self-retentions and deductibles, may be inadequate or unavailable to protect us fully, and may be canceled or otherwise terminated by the insurer. Furthermore, we face the following additional risks under our insurance coverage: • we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; • we may be faced with types of liabilities that are not covered under our insurance policies, such as damages from environmental contamination or terrorist attacks, and that exceed any amounts we may have reserved for such liabilities; • the amount of any liabilities that we may face may exceed our policy limits and any amounts we may have reserved for such liabilities; and • we may incur losses resulting from interruption of our business that may not be fully covered under our insurance policies. Even a partially uninsured claim of significant size, if successful, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. However, even if we successfully defend ourselves against any such claim, we could be forced to spend a substantial amount of money in litigation expenses, our management could be required to spend valuable time in the defense against these claims and our reputation could suffer, any of which could harm our business and financial condition. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on the design and operational effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, and rules and regulations of the SEC, thereunder, which we refer to as Section 404. We are in the process of documenting and initiating tests of our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. We are required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2013. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our combined consolidated financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such action could adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur asset impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets, which would result in lower reported net income (or higher net losses). As of December 31, 2012, we had $36.6 million in goodwill and $158.9 million in other indefinite lived intangible assets. Under GAAP, we are required to evaluate our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually, and additionally whenever a triggering event occurs that indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. Our impairment testing consists first of a qualitative assessment where we determine whether the existence of certain events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of a reporting unit is less than its fair value, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. If we conclude otherwise, then we perform the first step of the two-step impairment test which requires the determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. Fair value of our reporting units is determined using discounted cash flows and guideline company multiples. Significant estimates used in calculating fair value include estimates of future cash flows, future short-term and long-term growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and guideline company multiples for each of the reporting units. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges. If goodwill is determined to be impaired for any of our reporting units now or in the future, a non-cash charge would be required. Any such charge would result in lower reported net income (or higher net losses). 18 Based on our analysis, we concluded that an impairment charge was not necessary for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011; however, we did take a $62.8 million non-cash impairment charge during the year ended December 31, 2010. As facts and circumstances change for our business, we continue to monitor our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. We can provide no assurance that we will not be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge has an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and financial results and could cause a decline in our stock price. Concentration of ownership among our existing executives, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Entities controlled by affiliates of JCP own 100% of our outstanding Class B common stock and approximately 57% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. In addition, our directors (other than affiliates of JCP), executive officers and employees hold approximately 9% of the voting power of Edgen Group in the aggregate. Furthermore, each of EM II LP and B&L Holdings are entitled to have a representative attend meetings of our board of directors as a non-voting observer so long as certain ownership thresholds are met. Accordingly, entities controlled by affiliates of JCP are able to elect all of the members of our board of directors and therefore control our management and affairs, including matters relating to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends. In addition, affiliates of JCP are able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval and are able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and can preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. We cannot assure you that the interests of these affiliates of JCP will not conflict with your interests. As a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NYSE rules, we qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Affiliates of JCP own more than 50% of the voting power for the election of our directors. As a result, we are considered a "controlled company" within the meaning of the corporate governance rules of the NYSE. Under these rules, a "controlled company" may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirement that a majority of its board of directors consist of independent directors and the requirement that it have a compensation committee and a nominating and corporate governance committee that are composed entirely of independent directors. We have elected to be treated as a controlled company and thus utilize certain of these exemptions. As a result, we do not have compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees consisting entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, for so long as we are a “controlled company,” you will not have the same protection afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. We will be required to pay EM II LP and B&L Holdings for most of the tax benefits relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions we may claim as a result of the tax basis step-up we may receive in connection with issuances of our Class A common stock pursuant to the Exchange Rights and certain other transactions that result in increases in our share of the tax basis of EDG LLC's assets. Pursuant to two separate exchange agreements, EM II LP and B&L Holdings each have the right from time to time, subject to certain exceptions, to exchange their shares of Class B common stock and membership units of EDG LLC for shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis (subject to certain customary adjustments for stock splits, distributions and similar events). We refer to these rights as the Exchange Rights. The exercise of the Exchange Rights is expected to result in increases in our share of the tax basis of EDG LLC's assets if our tax basis in the EDG LLC membership units exchanged exceeds our share of the adjusted tax basis of EDG LLC's property. In addition, EMC's sale of its interests in B&L, EM II LP's and B&L Holdings' sale of EDG LLC membership units to Edgen Group and certain other transactions are also expected to result in increases in our share of the tax basis of EDG LLC's assets. An increase in the tax basis of EDG LLC's assets may reduce the future tax liability of Edgen Group through increased depreciation and amortization deductions for tax purposes. We are party to a tax receivable agreement with each of EM II LP and B&L Holdings that provides for the payment by Edgen Group of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax that we actually realize as a result of increased depreciation and amortization deductions available to us as a result of these transactions that result in increases in our share of the tax basis of EDG LLC's assets, and as a result of our making payments under the tax receivable agreement. 19 While the actual amount and timing of payments under the tax receivable agreements will depend upon a number of factors, including the amount and timing of taxable income we generate in the future, the value of our individual assets, the portion of our payments under the tax receivable agreements constituting imputed interest and increases in the tax basis of our assets resulting in payments to EM II LP and B&L Holdings, we expect that the payments that we may be required to make to EM II LP and B&L Holdings will be substantial. For example, at the time of the IPO, based on the IPO offering price and various assumptions we made at that time, we estimated that the future payments to EM II LP and B&L Holdings in respect of the tax receivable agreements would aggregate to $21.2 million and range from approximately $0.7 million to $2.2 million per year over the next 15 years. The assumptions on which this estimate was based, such as the price of our Class A common stock, are subject to change (and have changed) over time. But, generally speaking, and all other things being equal, an increase in the price of our Class A common stock will generally result in an increase in the payments under the tax receivable agreements that may result from the exercise of the Exchange Rights. We may need to incur debt to finance payments under the tax receivable agreements to the extent our cash resources are insufficient to meet our obligations under the tax receivable agreements as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise. Edgen Group is a holding company and, as such, depends upon distributions from its subsidiaries to pay its taxes, expenses and other costs. A tax authority may challenge all or part of the tax basis increases discussed above and a court could sustain such a challenge. In the event of such a challenge, we may be required or may agree to pay additional taxes and possibly penalties and interest to one or more tax authorities. If such basis increases or other benefits were later not allowed by tax authorities, although future payments to EM II LP and B&L Holdings under the tax receivable agreements would cease or diminish, EM II LP and B&L Holdings will not reimburse us for any payments previously made. As a result, in such circumstances we could make payments to EM II LP and B&L Holdings under the tax receivable agreements in excess of our actual cash tax savings. In addition, we do not have a right to terminate the tax receivable agreements, and our obligations under the tax receivable agreements may affect our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. For example, a change of control transaction could trigger an obligation to make payments under the tax receivable agreements to EM II LP and B&L Holdings (which payments would not be part of the consideration for our shares) and this obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable. Our primary U.S. subsidiary, EMC, has net operating loss carryforwards. The utilization of these deferred tax assets is subject to various limitations that may prevent us from being able to utilize these net operating loss carryforwards. At December 31, 2012, EMC, our primary U.S. subsidiary, had a deferred tax asset of $37.6 million associated with certain U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of $87.5 million and aggregate state net operating loss carryforwards of $87.6 million, all of which has been offset by a valuation allowance. The actual realizability of these deferred tax assets generally may be limited for various reasons, including if projected future taxable income is insufficient to recognize the full benefit of such net operating loss carryforwards prior to their expiration. Additionally, our ability to fully use these tax assets will also be adversely affected if we have an "ownership change" within the meaning of Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50% increase in equity ownership by "5% shareholders" (as that term is defined for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code) in any three-year period. Future changes in our ownership, depending on the magnitude, including the purchase or sale of our Class A common stock by 5% stockholders, and issuances or redemptions of Class A common stock by us, could result in an ownership change that would trigger the imposition of limitations under Section 382. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that in the future we will not experience limitations with respect to recognizing the benefits of our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes, which limitations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We rely on our information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of our business and customer and supplier relationships, and a disruption of these systems could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business increasingly relies on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. A significant portion of the communication between our personnel around the world, customers and suppliers depends on information technology. As with all large systems, our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. In addition, security breaches could result in unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. 20 The concentration of processes in shared services centers means that any disruption could impact a large portion of our business within the operating zones served by the affected service center. If we do not allocate, and effectively manage, the resources necessary to build, sustain and protect the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers, business disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, as well as potential civil liability and fines under various states' laws in which we do business. Our information technology system could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. In addition, if our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we may lose net sales and profits as a result of our inability to timely distribute, invoice and collect payments from our customers, and could experience delays in reporting our financial results. Any such damage, disruption or shutdown could adversely affect our competitive position and thereby our business, financial condition and results of operations. The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cyber-security, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption in our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information or damage to our Company's image, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our information resources. More specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data or steal confidential information. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. Our three primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident include operational interruption, damage to our Company's image, and private data exposure. We have implemented solutions, processes, and procedures to help mitigate this risk, but these measures, as well as our organization's increased awareness of our risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that our financial results will not be negatively impacted by such an incident. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the 2020 Notes and our other debt. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $662.3 million of total indebtedness outstanding and the ability to borrow approximately $237.8 million of additional debt under our revolving credit agreement (the "Global Credit Agreement") and $1.9 million under our EM FZE facility. Our substantial debt could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our other financial obligations, including our obligations relating to the 2020 Notes; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • expose us to interest rate fluctuations because the interest on the debt relating to revolving borrowings is imposed at variable rates; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such debt; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the indenture governing the 2020 Notes and the Global Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to take certain actions. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts, including the 2020 Notes. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. We expect that the 2020 Notes, our Global Credit Agreement and our other outstanding indebtedness will account for significant cash interest expense in 2013 and subsequent years. Accordingly, we will have to generate significant cash flow from operations solely to meet our debt service requirements. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service and working capital requirements, we may need to seek additional financing; however, this insufficient cash flow may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. 21 We may need additional capital in the future and it may not be available on acceptable terms. We may require additional capital in the future to do the following: • fund our operations; • finance investments in equipment and infrastructure needed to maintain and expand our distribution • capabilities; • enhance and expand the range of products and services we offer; • respond to potential strategic opportunities, such as investments, acquisitions and expansion; and • service or refinance our indebtedness. Because of our high level of outstanding indebtedness, additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. The terms of available financing may restrict our financial and operating flexibility. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to reduce our operations or delay, limit or abandon expansion opportunities. Moreover, even if we are able to continue our operations, the failure to obtain additional financing could adversely affect our ability to compete. Some of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which would result in our interest expense increasing if interest rates rise. Indebtedness under our Global Credit Agreement and otherwise is and may be in the future subject to floating interest rates. Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing funds available for operations or other purposes. Accordingly, we may experience a negative impact on earnings and/or cash flows as a result of interest rate fluctuation. The actual impact would depend on the amount of floating rate debt outstanding, which fluctuates from time to time. As of December 31, 2012, there were $56.9 million of cash borrowings outstanding under our Global Credit Agreement. See Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Debt for additional information. Despite our current debt level, we may still be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial debt. We may be able to incur substantial additional debt, including additional notes and secured debt, in the future. For example, under the terms of our Global Credit Agreement, we have the ability to request up to an additional $175.0 million of borrowing availability under the agreement. Although the indenture governing the 2020 Notes and our Global Credit Agreement contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and, under certain circumstances, the amount of debt that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our existing debt levels, the related risks that we now face would intensify and we may not be able to meet all our debt obligations, including the repayment of the 2020 Notes. In addition, the indenture governing the 2020 Notes and the Global Credit Agreement do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute debt under the agreements governing such debt. See Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Debt for additional information. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our current or future indebtedness could restrict our operating flexibility. The indenture governing the 2020 Notes and the Global Credit Agreement contain affirmative and negative covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to take certain actions. These restrictions may limit our ability to operate our business and may prohibit or limit our ability to enhance our operations or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. The Global Credit Agreement requires us, under certain circumstances, to maintain specified financial ratios including fixed charge coverage ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. Our indenture and the Global Credit Agreement restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to: • incur or guarantee additional debt and issue preferred stock; • pay dividends or make other distributions, or repurchase capital stock or subordinated debt; • make certain investments and loans; • create liens; • engage in sale and leaseback transactions; • make material changes in the nature or conduct of our business; • create restrictions on the payment of dividends and other amounts to us from our subsidiaries; • enter into agreements restricting the ability of a subsidiary to make or repay loans to, transfer property to, or guarantee indebtedness of, us or any of our subsidiaries; 22 • merge or consolidate with or into other companies; • make capital expenditures; • transfer or sell assets; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. The breach of any of these covenants by us or the failure by us to meet any of these ratios or conditions could result in a default under any or all of such indebtedness. Furthermore, if we or certain of our subsidiaries experience a specified change of control, a default may occur under the indenture governing the 2020 Notes and the Global Credit Agreement. If a default occurs under any such indebtedness, all of the outstanding obligations thereunder could become immediately due and payable, which could result in a cross-default under certain of our other outstanding indebtedness and could lead to an acceleration of obligations related to the 2020 Notes and other outstanding indebtedness. Our ability to comply with the provisions of the indenture governing the 2020 Notes, the Global Credit Agreement and other agreements governing other indebtedness we may incur in the future can be affected by events beyond our control and may make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. See Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Debt for additional information. Credit availability under our Global Credit Agreement is subject to a borrowing base limitation that fluctuates from time to time and is subject to redetermination. Our credit availability under our Global Credit Agreement could decline if the values of our borrowing bases decline, the applicable administrative agents impose reserves in their discretion, our utilization under our Global Credit Agreement increases, or for other reasons. The value of our Global Credit Agreement’s borrowing base could decline if the value of their respective eligible inventory or accounts receivable declines due to economic or market conditions, working capital practices, or otherwise. In addition, the administrative agents under the Global Credit Agreement are entitled to conduct borrowing base field audits and inventory appraisals at least annually, which may result in a lower borrowing base valuation for our facility. If our credit availability is less than our utilization under our credit facility, we would be required to repay borrowings and/or cash collateralize outstanding trade finance instruments sufficient to eliminate the deficit. Furthermore, full credit availability could be limited by the requirement to maintain the fixed charge coverage ratio at or above 1.00 to 1.00 under our Global Credit Agreement because any additional utilization would increase cash interest expense and, all else being equal, decrease our fixed charge coverage ratios. The fixed charge coverage ratio under our Global Credit Agreement could be applicable if the aggregate availability falls below certain thresholds. As of the year ended December 31, 2012, the fixed charge coverage ratio under our Global Credit Agreement exceeded the required minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.00 to 1.00. Although our Global Credit Agreement’s fixed charge coverage ratio covenant was not applicable because our aggregate availability was above the applicable threshold, there can be no assurance that our aggregate availability will not fall below one of the applicable thresholds in the future. Our failure to satisfy the minimum fixed charge coverage ratios under our Global Credit Agreement at a time when they are applicable would be an event of default under each of the applicable Global Credit Agreement, in which case either of the administrative agents or the requisite lenders may accelerate the maturity of our Global Credit Agreement and/or terminate the lending commitments thereunder and which could result in a default under and acceleration of certain of our other indebtedness. Our operations are funded, in part, from borrowings under our Global Credit Agreement and are supported with trade finance instruments issued from our Global Credit Agreement. If we are unable to continue utilizing our Global Credit Agreement and if we cannot obtain alternate credit sources or trade finance support at commercially reasonable rates, or if we are required to repay debt under our Global Credit Agreement or any other facility, we may not be able to continue our operations without substantial disruptions, or at all, buy or hold inventory, expand into new markets or take on new projects that require significant capital expenditures. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 23 