Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading ''Cautionary Note Concerning Forward-Looking Statements'' before deciding whether to invest in our securities.Risks Relating to Our Business Our operating history is characterized by net losses. We anticipate incurring further losses, and we may never become profitable. For each of our last five fiscal years and prior thereto, we have incurred annual operating losses. We expect this trend to continue until such time that we can sell a sufficient number of systems and achieve a cost structure to become profitable. We may not have adequate cash resources to reach the point of profitability, and we may never become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to increase our sales and sustain or increase our profitability in the future. We experience significant fluctuations in revenues from quarter to quarter due to a preponderance of one-time sales. We have low volume, high dollar sales for projects that are generally non-recurring, and therefore our sales have fluctuated significantly from period to period. For example, when compared to the previous quarter, our revenues in 2010 decreased during the first, second and fourth quarters and increased during the third quarter. In 2011, our revenue decreased during the first and fourth quarters and increased during the second and third quarters. In 2012, our revenues increased during the first, second and fourth quarters and decreased during the third quarter. In 2013, our revenues increased in the first, third and fourth quarters and decreased in the second quarter. Fluctuations cannot be predicted because they are affected by the purchasing decisions and timing requirements of our customers, which are unpredictable. We may be unable to fund our future operating requirements, which could force us to curtail our operations.To the extent that our funds are insufficient to fund our future operating requirements, we would need to raise additional funds through further public or private equity or debt financings depending upon prevailing market conditions. These financings may not be available to us, or if available, may be on terms that are not favorable to us and could result in significant dilution to our stockholders and reduction of the trading price of our stock (if then publicly traded). The state of worldwide capital markets could also impede our ability to raise additional capital on favorable terms or at all. If adequate capital were not available to us, we likely would be required to significantly curtail our operations or possibly even cease our operations. We believe that our existing resources, including cash and cash equivalents, future cash flows from operations and the expected net proceeds from the offering for which we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-1 on February 7, 2013, are sufficient to meet the working capital requirements of our existing business for the next twelve months. After that our cash requirements may increase. If we experience a period of significant growth or expansion, it could place a substantial strain on our resources. If our cogeneration and chiller products penetrate the market rapidly, we would be required to deliver even larger volumes of technically complex products or components to our customers on a timely basis and at a reasonable costs to us. We have never ramped up our manufacturing capabilities to meet large-scale production requirements. If we were to commit to deliver large volumes of products, we may not be able to satisfy these commitments on a timely and cost-effective basis.The execution of our growth strategy is dependent upon the continued availability of third-party financing arrangements for our customers and is affected by general economic conditions. The recent recession, current unstable economic conditions and limited availability of credit and liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations because purchasers of our systems often require third party financing. Purchasers may be unable or unwilling to finance the cost to purchase our products or may be forced to cancel previously submitted orders or delay taking shipment until suitable credit is again available. Collecting payment from customers facing liquidity challenges is also difficult.26Table of ContentsTECOGEN INC. We are dependent on a limited number of third-party suppliers for the supply of key components for our products. We use third-party suppliers for components in many of our products. Our engine supplier is GM. Our generator supplier for our cogeneration products, other than the InVerde, is Marathon Electric. To produce air conditioning, our engines drive a compressor purchased from J&E Hall International. The loss of one of our suppliers could materially and adversely affect our business, if we are unable to replace them. While alternate suppliers for the manufacture of our engine, generator and compressor have been identified, should the need arise, there can be no assurance that alternate suppliers will be available and able to manufacture our engine, generator or compressor on acceptable terms. From time to time, shipments can be delayed because of industry-wide or other shortages of necessary materials and components from third-party suppliers. A supplier's failure to supply components in a timely manner, or to supply components that meet our quality, quantity, or cost requirements, or our inability to obtain substitute sources of these components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, could impair our ability to deliver our products in accordance with contractual obligations. We expect significant competition for our products and services.Competition for our products is currently limited (see “Competitive Position and Business Conditions” in the “Business” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Many of our competitors and potential competitors are well established and have substantially greater financial, research and development, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. If these larger competitors decide to focus on the development of distributed power or cogeneration, they have the manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities to complete research, development and commercialization of these products more quickly and effectively than we can. There can also be no assurance that current and future competitors will not develop new or enhanced technologies or more cost-effective systems, and therefore, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this competitive environment. The Executive Order to accelerate investments in industrial energy efficiency may lead to increased competition. An Executive Order to accelerate investments in industrial energy efficiency, including CHP, was promulgated in August 2012. The goal of the Executive Order is to supply 40 gigawatts of energy by 2020 from greater efficiency sources such as CHP systems. With this Executive Order, it is expected that a number of barriers to CHP development will be removed with effective programs, policies, and financing opportunities resulting in significant new capital investment in CHP. This initiative by the U.S. government may lead to increased competition in the CHP market. If we are unable to maintain our technological expertise in design and manufacturing processes, we will not be able to successfully compete. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to continue to develop and provide innovative products and product enhancements that meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. However, this requires that we successfully anticipate and respond to technological changes in design and manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner. The development of new, technologically advanced products and enhancements is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new or enhanced products to market in a timely manner, successfully lower costs, and achieve market acceptance of our products, or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. The introduction of products embodying new technologies, and the shifting of customer demands or changing industry standards, could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. We may experience delays in releasing new products and product enhancements in the future. Material delays in introducing new products or product enhancements may cause customers to forego purchases of our products and purchase those of our competitors. 27Table of ContentsTECOGEN INC.Our intellectual property may not be adequately protected.We seek to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements, and licensing arrangements, but we cannot ensure that we will be able to adequately protect our technology from misappropriation or infringement. We cannot ensure that our existing intellectual property rights will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, or rendered unenforceable.We have applied for and obtained patents on certain key components used in our products. Specifically, the Company holds three patents, all of which are utilized in our products. The first patent, from 2007, protects the incorporation of an inverter into an engine-driven CHP module and applies to our InVerde model. The second patent, also from 2007, pertains to algorithms used for combustion control in our engines. Our third patent, issued October 2013 in the United States, is for our Ultra low-emissions technology. This Ultra technology applies to all of our gas engine-driven products and may have licensing application to other natural gas engines. In addition, we have rights to a 2006 University of Wisconsin patent enabling us to use that patent’s microgrid control algorithms for our specific use: engine-based power generation fueled by natural gas and diesel for engines less than 500 kW in electric power output.We have also filed for patents for our Ultra low-emissions technology in Europe, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, India, Israel, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Republic of Korea, Singapore, and South Africa. As discussed under Recent Developments, the U.S. PTO has issued our patent. There is no assurance, however, that the Ultra low-emissions patent applications will be approved in any other countries.Our competitors may successfully challenge the validity of our patents, design non-infringing products, or deliberately infringe our patents. There can be no assurance that other companies are not investigating or developing other similar technologies. In addition, our intellectual property rights may not provide a competitive advantage to us or ensure that our products and technology will be adequately covered by our patents and other intellectual property. Any of these factors or the expiration, termination, or invalidity of one or more of our patents may have a material adverse effect on our business.Our control software is protected by copyright laws or under an exclusive license agreement. Further, we rely on treatment of our technology as trade secrets through confidentiality agreements, which our employees and vendors are required to sign. We also rely on non-disclosure agreements with others that have or may have access to confidential information to protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also be or become known without breach of these agreements or may be independently developed by competitors. Failure to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and information could harm our results of operations and financial condition.Others may assert that our technology infringes their intellectual property rights. We may be subject to infringement claims in the future. The defense of any claims of infringement made against us by third parties could involve significant legal costs and require our management to divert time from our business operations. If we are unsuccessful in defending any claims of infringement, we may be forced to obtain licenses or to pay additional royalties to continue to use our technology. We may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or if these licenses are costly, our operating results would suffer either from reductions in revenues through our inability to serve customers or from increases in costs to license third-party technologies. Our success is dependent upon attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel and the loss of key personnel could significantly hurt our business. To achieve success, we must attract and retain highly qualified technical, operational and executive employees. The loss of the services of key employees or an inability to attract, train and retain qualified and skilled employees, specifically engineering, operations, and business development personnel, could result in the loss of business or could otherwise negatively impact our ability to operate and grow our business successfully. Our business is subject to product liability and warranty claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims, which are inherent in the manufacturing, marketing and sale of our products, and we may face substantial liability for damages resulting from the faulty design or manufacture of products or improper use of products by end users. We currently maintain a moderate level of product liability insurance, but there can be no assurance that this insurance will provide sufficient coverage in the event of a claim. Also, we cannot predict 28Table of ContentsTECOGEN INC.whether we will be able to maintain such coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that a product liability claim would not harm our business or financial condition. In addition, negative publicity in connection with the faulty design or manufacture of our products would adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products. We sell our products with warranties. There can be no assurance that the provision in our financial statements for estimated product warranty expense will be sufficient. We cannot ensure that our efforts to reduce our risk through warranty disclaimers will effectively limit our liability. Any significant occurrence of warranty expense in excess of estimates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flow. Further, we have at times undertaken programs to enhance the performance of units previously sold. These enhancements have at times been provided at no cost or below our cost. If we choose to offer such programs again in the future, such actions could result in significant costs. Certain businesses and consumers might not consider cogeneration solutions as a means for obtaining their electricity and power needs. Generating electricity and heat at the customers’ building (on-site CHP) is an established technology, but it is more complex than buying electricity from the utility and using a furnace for heat. Customers have been slow to accept on-site CHP in part because of this complexity. In addition, the development of a larger market for our products will be impacted by many factors that are out of our control, including cost competitiveness, regulatory requirements, and the emergence of newer and potentially better technologies and products. If a larger market for cogeneration technology in general and our products in particular fails to grow substantially, we may be unable to continue our business. We operate in a highly regulated business environment, and changes in regulation could impose significant costs on us or could make our products less economical, thereby affecting demand for our products.Several kinds of government regulations – at federal, state, and local levels and in other countries – affect our current and future business (see “Government Regulation and Its Effect on Our Business” in the “Business” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Our products must comply with various local building codes and must undergo inspection by local authorities. Our products are also certified by a third party to conform to specific standards. These certifications require continuous verification by a company that monitors our processes and design every three months. Our InVerde product is also certified to Europe’s standard CE mark (European Conformity), which is mandatory for products imported into the European Union for commercial sale. If our products ceased to meet the criteria necessary for the applicable certifications, we may lose the ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions, which may materially and adversely affect our business. Regulatory agencies may further impose special requirements for the implementation and operation of our products that could significantly affect or even eliminate some of our target markets. We also may incur material costs or liabilities in complying with future government regulations. Furthermore, our potential utility customers must themselves comply with numerous laws and regulations, which may be complicated by further deregulation of the utility industry. We cannot determine how such deregulation may ultimately affect the market for our products. Changes in regulatory standards or policies could reduce the level of investment in the research and development of alternative power sources, including our products. Any reduction or termination of such programs could increase the cost to our potential customers, making our systems less desirable and thereby adversely affect our business and financial condition.Utilities or governmental entities could hinder our entry into and growth in the marketplace, and we may not be able to effectively sell our products. Utilities or governmental entities on occasion have placed barriers to the installation of our products or their interconnection with the electric grid, and they may continue to do so. Utilities may charge additional fees to customers who install on-site CHP and rely on the grid for back-up power. These types of restrictions, fees, or charges could make it harder for customers to install our products or use them effectively, as well as increasing the cost to our potential customers. This could make our systems less desirable, thereby adversely affecting our revenue and other operating results.29Table of ContentsTECOGEN INC.We may not achieve production cost reductions necessary to competitively price our products, which would adversely affect our sales. We believe that we will need to reduce the unit production cost of our products over time to maintain our ability to offer competitively priced products. Our ability to achieve cost reductions will depend on our ability to develop low-cost design enhancements, to obtain necessary tooling and favorable supplier contracts, and to increase sales volumes so we can achieve economies of scale. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve any such production cost reductions. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have granted sales representation rights to an affiliated company, which restricts our distribution. Our affiliates American DG Energy and EuroSite Power Inc. have certain exclusive sales representation rights to our cogeneration products only (not including chillers) and exclusive rights to our Ultra low-emissions technology if it is applied to engines from other CHP manufacturers in projects developed by American DG Energy (see “The Company and Its Affiliates” in the “Business” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). As a result of these agreements, we have limited control over our distribution of certain products in New England, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Commodity market factors impact our costs and availability of materials. Our products contain a number of commodity materials, from metals, which include steel, special high temperature alloys, copper, nickel and molybdenum, to computer components. The availability of these commodities could impact our ability to acquire the materials necessary to meet our requirements. The cost of metals has historically fluctuated. The pricing could impact the costs to manufacture our products. If we are not able to acquire commodity materials at prices and on terms satisfactory to us or at all, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. Our products involve a lengthy sales cycle and we may not anticipate sales levels appropriately, which could impair our results of operations. The sale of our products typically involves a significant commitment of capital by customers, with the attendant delays frequently associated with large capital expenditures. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with our products is typically lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. We expect to plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which is highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. If sales in any period fall significantly below anticipated levels, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow would suffer. If demand in any period increases well above anticipated levels, we may have difficulties in responding, incur greater costs to respond, or be unable to fulfill the demand in sufficient time to retain the order, which would negatively impact our operations. In addition, our operating expenses are based on anticipated sales levels, and a high percentage of our expenses are generally fixed in the short term. As a result of these factors, a small fluctuation in timing of sales can cause operating results to vary materially from period to period. The economic viability of our projects depends on the price spread between fuel and electricity, and the variability of these prices creates a risk that our projects will not be economically viable and that potential customers will avoid such energy price risks. The economic viability of our CHP products depends on the spread between natural gas fuel and electricity prices. Volatility in one component of the spread, such as the cost of natural gas and other fuels (e.g., propane or distillate oil), can be managed to some extent by means of futures contracts. However, the regional rates charged for both base load and peak electricity may decline periodically due to excess generating capacity or general economic recessions.Our products could become less competitive if electric rates were to fall substantially in the future. Also, potential customers may perceive the unpredictable swings in natural gas and electricity prices as an increased risk of investing in on-site CHP, and may decide not to purchase CHP products. We are exposed to credit risks with respect to some of our customers. To the extent our customers do not advance us sufficient funds to finance our costs during the execution phase of our contracts, we are exposed to the risk that they will be unable to accept delivery or that they will be unable to make payment at the time of delivery.30Table of ContentsTECOGEN INC. We may make acquisitions that could harm our financial performance. To expedite development of our corporate infrastructure, particularly with regard to equipment installation and service functions, we anticipate the future acquisition of complementary businesses. Risks associated with such acquisitions include the disruption of our existing operations, loss of key personnel in the acquired companies, dilution through the issuance of additional securities, assumptions of existing liabilities, and commitment to further operating expenses. If any or all of these problems actually occur, acquisitions could negatively impact our financial performance and future stock value. Our ability to access capital for the repayment of debts and for future growth may be limited due to periods of fluctuating financial markets and periods of disruption and recession. We may be affected by unknown future market conditions. Our ability to continue to access capital could be impacted by various factors including general market conditions and the continuing slowdown in the economy, interest rates, the perception of our potential future earnings and cash distributions, any unwillingness on the part of lenders to make loans to us, and any deterioration in the financial position of lenders that might make them unable to meet their obligations to us. Our business is affected by general economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting the markets in which we operate. Potential future economic conditions including an unstable global economy could adversely impact our business in 2014 and beyond. The current unstable economic conditions could adversely impact our business in 2014 and beyond, resulting in reduced demand for our products, increased rate of order cancellations or delays, increased risk of supplier bankruptcy, increased rate of supply order cancellation or delays, increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories, increased pressure on the prices for our products and services; and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable.Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock No public market for our Common Stock currently exists, and an active trading market for our Common Stock may not develop or be sustained. There is no public market for our Common Stock. An active trading market for our shares may never develop or, if developed, be maintained following. If an active market for our Common Stock does not develop or is not maintained, it may be difficult for investors to sell shares of our Common Stock without depressing the market price for the shares or at all. An inactive trading market may also impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund operations by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or technologies by using our shares as consideration. We could issue additional Common Stock, which might dilute the book value of our Common Stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Common Stock will depend on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. There can be no assurance that analysts will cover us, or provide favorable coverage. If one or more analysts downgrade our stock or change their opinion of our stock, our share price would likely decline. In addition, if one or more analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline.Investment in our Common Stock is subject to price fluctuations and market volatility.Historically, valuations of many small companies have been highly volatile. The securities of many small companies have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations, unrelated to the operating performance or the prospects of such companies. The market price of shares of our Common Stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including:•results and timing of our product development; •results of the development of our competitors’ products; 31Table of ContentsTECOGEN INC.•regulatory actions with respect to our products or our competitors’ products; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; •actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our competitors’ operating results or changes in their growth rate; •competition from existing products or new products that may emerge; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, collaborations, or capital commitments; •issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts; •fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; •share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; •additions or departures of key management or personnel; •disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters, and our ability to obtain, maintain, defend or enforce proprietary rights relating to our products and technologies; •announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts; •sales of our Common Stock by us, our insiders, or our other stockholders; and •general economic and market conditions. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes, or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of shares of our Common Stock. In addition, such fluctuations could subject us to securities class action litigation, which could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could potentially harm our business.We could issue additional Common Stock, which might dilute the book value of our Common Stock. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or a part of any authorized but unissued shares. Such stock issuances may be made at a price that reflects a discount from the then-current trading price of our Common Stock. We may issue securities that are convertible into or exercisable for a significant amount of our Common Stock. These issuances would dilute the percentage ownership interest of holders of our securities, which would have the effect of reducing their influence on matters on which our stockholders vote, and might dilute the book value of our Common Stock. Investors in our securities may incur additional dilution of net tangible book value if holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise their options or if warrant holders exercise their warrants to purchase shares of our Common Stock. There can be no assurance that any future offering will be consummated or, if consummated, will be at a share price equal or superior to the price paid by our investors even if we meet our technological and marketing goals.We may be subject to securities litigation, which is expensive and could divert management attention. Our share price may be volatile, and in the past companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to an increased incidence of securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.32Table of ContentsTECOGEN INC. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decrease significantly. Our annual and quarterly results may vary significantly depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our earnings do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our stock could decline. Also, because our sales are primarily made on a purchase order basis, customers may generally cancel, reduce or postpone orders, resulting in reductions to our net sales and profitability. Future sales of Common Stock by our existing stockholders may cause our stock price to fall. The market price of our Common Stock could decline as a result of sales by our stockholders of shares of Common Stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. As a result, such sales could significantly impact the trading price of our Common Stock and the ability of other stockholders to sell shares of our Common Stock. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate and thus inhibit our ability to raise additional capital when it is needed. Because we do not intend to pay cash dividends, our stockholders will receive no current income from holding our stock. We have paid no cash dividends on our capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying these dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our Common Stock will be the sole source of gain for our stockholders for the foreseeable future. We are controlled by a small group of majority stockholders, and our minority stockholders will be unable to effect changes in our governance structure or implement actions that require stockholder approval, such as a sale of the Company. George N. Hatsopoulos and John N. Hatsopoulos, who are brothers, beneficially own approximately 48.0% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock. These stockholders have the ability to control various corporate decisions, including our direction and policies, the election of directors, the content of our charter and bylaws and the outcome of any other matter requiring stockholder approval, including a merger, consolidation and sale of substantially all of our assets or other change of control transaction. The concurrence of our minority stockholders will not be required for any of these decisions.This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition of us on terms that other stockholders may desire. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with your interests or the interests of other stockholders and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders, including seeking a premium value for their Common Stock, which might affect the prevailing market price for our Common Stock. We are controlled by our two founding stockholders, George N. Hatsopoulos and John N. Hatsopoulos. These stockholders have registered the majority of their holdings for resale therefore are able to sell all of their Common Stock. John N. Hatsopoulos and George N. Hatsopoulos have registered the majority of their holdings of our Common Stock for resale primarily for estate planning purposes. For that reason, the timing and the amount of any future sales by them is difficult to predict. George Hatsopoulos is a director but not an officer of the Company. John Hatsopoulos is the Chief Executive Officer and a key employee of the Company. If John Hatsopoulos or George Hatsopoulos were to sell a substantial portion of their shares in the Company, they would no longer have a substantial continuing interest in the Company. If that were to occur, it may have a material adverse effect on their performance as director or Chief Executive Officer, as applicable, and on the business of the Company. Further, substantial sales of their Common Stock may result in a decline in the market price of our Common Stock. There has been a material weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, which could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. As of our fiscal year end, December 31, 2013, our principal executive officer and principal accounting officer performed an evaluation of controls and procedures and concluded that our controls were not effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by our Company in reports that we file under the Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported as when required. Management conducted an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and based on this evaluation, management concluded that the company’s internal control over financial 33Table of ContentsTECOGEN INC.reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2013. The Company currently does not have personnel with a sufficient level of accounting knowledge, experience and training in the selection, application and implementation of generally acceptable accounting principles as it relates to complex transactions and financial reporting requirements. The Company also has a small number of employees dealing with general controls over information technology security and user access. This constitutes a material weakness in financial reporting. Any failure to implement effective internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock, and may require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control system. Trading of our Common Stock may be restricted by the SEC’s “penny stock” regulations which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities may be covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and other quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statement showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure and suitability requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules may discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our capital stock. Trading of our capital stock may be restricted by the SEC’s “penny stock” regulations which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. The JOBS Act allows us to postpone the date by which we must comply with certain laws and regulations and reduces the amount of information provided by us in reports filed with the SEC. We cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our Common Stock less attractive to investors. We are and we will remain an “emerging growth company”, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, until the earliest to occur of (i) the last day of the fiscal year during which our total annual gross revenues equal or exceed $1 billion (subject to adjustment for inflation), (ii) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt, or (iv) the date on which we are deemed a large accelerated filer under the Exchange Act. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company we are not required to: •have an auditor report on our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;•comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (i.e., an auditor discussion and analysis);•submit certain executive compensation matters to shareholder non-binding advisory votes;•submit for shareholder approval golden parachute payments not previously approved; and•disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and financial performance and comparisons of the Chief Executive Officer’s compensation to median employee compensation, when such disclosure requirements are adopted.34Table of ContentsTECOGEN INC.In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, for complying with new or revised accounting standards. An emerging growth company can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we have chosen to “opt out” of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. We cannot predict if investors will find our Common Stock less attractive because we may rely on some of these exemptions. If some investors find our Common Stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Common Stock and our stock price may be more volatile. If we avail ourselves of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements, our reduced disclosure may make it more difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate us and may result in less investor confidence. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.