Risk Factors You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information included in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements and estimates that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below. Risks Related to Our CA Business We are dependent on agreements with our airline partners to be able to access our customers. Payments by these customers for our services have provided, and we expect will continue to provide, a significant portion of our revenue. Our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from these agreements on a timely basis or to renew any existing agreements upon expiration or termination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under existing contracts with nine North American airlines, we provide ATG and ATG-4 equipment for installation on, and provide our Gogo service to passengers on, all or a portion of these airlines’ North American fleets. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, the Gogo service we provide to passengers on aircraft operated by these airlines generated approximately 53%, 56% and 52% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. We have contracted with American Airlines to provide ATG-4 and Ku-band satellite equipment for installation on, and provide our Gogo service to, more than 200 new aircraft that will fly both domestic and international routes. We have also contracted to provide Ku-band satellite equipment and our Gogo service to the international fleet of Delta Air Lines, which currently consists of approximately 180 aircraft, and the domestic fleet of Japan Airlines, which currently consists of 77 aircraft. Our growth is dependent on our ability to have our equipment installed on additional aircraft and increased use of the Gogo service on installed aircraft. Any delays in installations under these contracts may negatively affect our ability to grow our user base and revenue. In addition, we have no assurance that any of our current airline partners will renew their existing contracts with us upon expiration, or that they will not terminate their contracts prior to expiration upon the occurrence of certain contractually stipulated events. Contractual termination events include our material breach of contract, including 20 Table of Contents material breach of our service level agreements, and our bankruptcy. Additionally, our contracts with airline partners from which we derive a majority of our CA-NA segment revenue permit each of these airline partners to terminate its contract with us if another company provides an alternate connectivity service that is a material improvement over Gogo Connectivity, such that failing to adopt such service would likely cause competitive harm to the airline, or if the percentage of passengers using Gogo Connectivity on such airline’s flights falls below certain negotiated thresholds. One contract with an airline partner from which we derive a significant portion, but less than a majority, of our CA-NA segment revenue permits such airline partner to terminate its contract with us if the airline’s revenue share falls below certain negotiated thresholds based on the airline’s costs incurred to provide the service and Gogo elects to not make the airline whole for such revenue share shortfall. Our contract covering the international fleet of Delta Air Lines requires us to provide a credit against equipment purchases, and under certain circumstances, refund amounts previously paid for equipment, to the airline if a competitor installs its connectivity system on an international fleet of another airline faster than the pace at which we install our system on Delta’s international fleet. Contracts with two of our airline partners from which we derive a significant portion, but less than a majority, of our CA-NA segment revenue allow those airlines to terminate a portion or all of their respective agreements after five or six years upon the payment of a termination fee. To the extent that our airline partners terminate or fail to renew their contracts with us for any reason, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Certain of our contracts with our airline partners include provisions that, under certain circumstances, entitle our airline partners to the benefit of certain more favorable provisions in other airline partners’ connectivity agreements, including terms related to termination, maintenance, service and pricing. These provisions have retroactive effect and may limit the benefits we realize from contracts containing such provisions. In addition, our inability to identify and offer improved terms to an airline partner in accordance with such a provision could negatively affect our relationship with that airline partner or give rise to a claim that we are in breach of such connectivity agreement. A failure to maintain airline satisfaction with our equipment or the Gogo service could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. Our relationships with our airline partners are critical to the growth and ongoing success of our business. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 use of the Gogo service by passengers flying on Delta Air Lines aircraft accounted for approximately 42%, 46%, and 44%, respectively, of the revenue generated by our CA-NA segment. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 use of the Gogo service by passengers flying on American Airlines aircraft accounted for approximately 24%, 23%, and 19%, respectively, of the revenue generated by our CA-NA segment. American Airlines and US Airways recently merged; while we have separate contracts with the two airlines, the fact that they are now under common control will increase our dependence on the combined entity. If our airline partners are not satisfied with our equipment or the Gogo service for any reason, including passenger dissatisfaction with the service as a result of capacity constraints, they may reduce efforts to co-market the Gogo service to their passengers, which could result in lower passenger usage and reduced revenue, which could in turn give certain airlines the right to terminate their contracts with us. In addition, airline dissatisfaction with us for any reason, including delays in installing our equipment, could negatively affect our ability to expand our service to additional airline partners or aircraft or lead to claims for damages, which may be material, or termination rights under existing contracts with our airline partners from which we derive a majority of our CA-NA segment revenue. We are experiencing network capacity constraints in the United States and expect capacity demands to increase, and we may in the future experience capacity constraints internationally. If we are unable to successfully implement planned or future technology enhancements to increase our network capacity, or our airline partners do not agree to such enhancements, our ability to maintain sufficient network capacity and our business could be materially and adversely affected. All providers of wireless connectivity services, including all providers of in-flight connectivity services, face certain limits on their ability to provide connectivity service, including escalating capacity constraints due to 21 Table of Contents expanding consumption of wireless services and the increasing prevalence of higher bandwidth uses such as file downloads and streaming media content. The success of our CA business depends on our ability to provide adequate bandwidth to meet customer demands while in-flight. Our ATG network is inherently limited by the spectrum licensed and we are currently experiencing capacity constraints in the United States, particularly on certain flights where demand for our service is high and certain routes on which a number of aircraft are within range of the same cell site at one time, and we expect demand to continue to increase in the United States as penetration rates increase and our service becomes available on more aircraft. As part of our effort to alleviate such constraints, we are continuing to implement our “technology roadmap.” With respect to our ATG service and network, the roadmap is intended to enhance our existing network to meet increasing capacity demands through a number of improvements, including the addition of new cell sites, the implementation of ATG-4, our next generation air-to-ground technology and the expected deployment of Gogo GTO, our hybrid satellite/ATG solution. We began the roll-out of our ATG-4 service during the second half of 2012 and as of December 31, 2013 such service is available on 436 aircraft operated by five airline partners, with approximately 800 aircraft operated by five airline partners expected to be installed with ATG-4 by the end of 2014. However, the successful and timely execution of this roll-out depends on certain variables that are not within our control, including the decision by our other airline partners whether to upgrade to ATG-4 and the schedule for any such upgrades, which will be affected by availability of aircraft and the speed with which we are able to obtain Supplemental Type Certificates, or STCs, from the FAA for our ATG-4 equipment. We are obligated, under certain of our contracts with airline partners, to bear costs of upgrading certain aircraft from ATG to ATG-4 and our associated costs under such contracts are material. If we are unable to continue to upgrade aircraft to ATG-4 on a timely or cost-effective basis, or at all, our already significant capacity constraints in the United States will be exacerbated. Our ATG-4 upgrades alone are not expected to completely alleviate current or expected capacity constraints. Accordingly, our technology roadmap is also intended to augment existing ATG capacity by adding Ku-band satellite service or hybrid satellite/air-to-ground service on certain aircraft and routes. There is no guarantee that the use of satellite technology, including through the use of related hybrid technologies, will effectively alleviate current or future capacity constraints. Implementation of satellite and hybrid solutions will depend on the availability of capacity from satellite service providers, regulatory approvals for aeronautical services using those satellites, the installation of satellite equipment on aircraft, and demand from our airline partners for new installations of or upgrades to satellite and hybrid equipment. We have experienced and are continuing to experience delays in obtaining FAA approvals for certain components of our Ku-band equipment. Further, we may experience unanticipated delays, complications, and expenses in implementing, integrating, and operating our systems using these new technologies. Any interruptions in operations during periods of implementation could adversely affect our ability to maintain satisfactory service levels, properly allocate resources and process billing information in a timely manner, which could result in customer dissatisfaction, reputational harm, termination of key contracts and delayed or reduced cash flow. We utilize a number of additional means to ensure our network meets passenger expectations, including the creation of effective price plans intended to calibrate usage while maximizing Gogo service revenue, and sophisticated bandwidth management tools, including through the use of bandwidth management software, which, if terminated for any reason or expired and were not renewed could adversely impact our ability to meet increasing capacity demands. We may in the future face capacity constraints internationally. There is no guarantee that our technology roadmap or the other means we utilize to manage our networks will be sufficient to alleviate capacity constraints in the United States or internationally. If we fail to meet our capacity demands, it could harm our reputation with customers, our airline partners could terminate their contracts with us for a failure to meet our service level agreements or we could be unable to enter into new contracts with other airline partners, and our business prospects and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Our business is highly dependent on the airline industry, which is itself affected by factors beyond the airlines’ control. The airline industry is highly competitive and sensitive to changing economic conditions. Our business is directly affected by the number of passengers flying on commercial aircraft, the financial condition of the airlines and other economic factors. If consumer demand for air travel declines, including due to increased use of technology such as videoconferencing for business travelers, or the number of aircraft and flights shrinks due to, among other reasons, reductions in capacity by airlines, the number of passengers available to use the Gogo service will be reduced, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Unfavorable general economic conditions and other events that are beyond the airlines’ control, including higher unemployment rates, higher interest rates, reduced stock prices, reduced consumer and business spending and terrorist attacks or threats could have a material adverse effect on the airline industry. A general reduction or shift in discretionary spending can result in decreased demand for leisure and business travel and lead to a reduction in airline flights offered and the number of passengers flying. Consolidation within the airline industry, including the recent merger of American Airlines and US Airways, could also adversely affect our relationships with our existing airline partners or lead to Gogo-equipped aircraft being taken out of service. Further, unfavorable economic conditions could also limit airlines’ ability to counteract increased fuel, labor or other costs though raised prices. Our airline partners operate in a highly competitive business market and, as a result, continue to face pressure on offerings and pricing. These unfavorable conditions and the competitiveness of the air travel industry could cause one or more of our airline partners to reduce expenditures on passenger services including deployment of the Gogo service or file for bankruptcy. If one or more of our airline partners were to file for bankruptcy, bankruptcy laws could give them rights to terminate their contracts with us, they could reduce their total fleet size and capacity and/or their total number of flights, and/or they could attempt to renegotiate the terms of their contracts with us including their revenue share percentage. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to grow our business with current airline partners or successfully negotiate agreements with airlines to which we do not currently provide the Gogo service. We are currently in negotiations or discussions with certain of our airline partners to provide our connectivity equipment and the Gogo service on additional aircraft in their fleets. We have no assurance that these efforts will be successful. We are also in discussions with other airlines to provide our connectivity equipment and the Gogo service to some or all of the aircraft flying their North American or international routes. Negotiations with prospective airline partners require substantial time, effort and resources. The time required to reach a final agreement with an airline is unpredictable and may lead to variances in our operating results from quarter to quarter. We may ultimately fail in our negotiations and any such failure could harm our results of operations due to, among other things, a diversion of our focus and resources, actual costs and opportunity costs of pursuing these opportunities. In addition, the terms of any future agreements could be materially different and less favorable to us than the terms included in our existing agreements with our airline partners. To the extent that any negotiations with current or potential airline partners are unsuccessful, or any new agreements contain terms that are less favorable to us, our growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Competition from a number of companies, as well as other market forces, could result in price reduction, reduced revenue and loss of market share and could harm our results of operations. We face increased competition from satellite-based providers of broadband services that include in-flight internet and live television services. Competition from such providers has had in the past and could have in the future an adverse effect on our ability to maintain or gain market share. While as of December 31, 2013, we provided the Gogo service to approximately 79% of all internet-enabled North American commercial aircraft, the increased availability, development and adoption of satellite-based services by commercial airlines in North America and the rest of the world has and will continue to put additional pressure on our ability to maintain our market leading position, and we expect our market share to decline as our competitors install more aircraft with 23 Table of Contents their systems in the U.S. and internationally. Three major U.S. airlines have announced arrangements with our competitors and have begun installing products made by our competitors to provide internet connectivity on all or a significant portion of their fleets. Some of our competitors are larger, more diversified corporations and have greater financial, marketing, production, and research and development resources. As a result, they may be better able to withstand the effects of periodic economic downturns or may offer a broader product line to customers, including services we do not currently provide, such as factory linefit capabilities, and may not provide in the future. In addition, while we are currently the only provider of ATG service, existing or potential competitors, including a supplier on whom we rely for critical components of our ATG and ATG-4 networks, may attempt to provide a similar service over a ground-based network using spectrum not currently designated for air-to-ground services. For example, on May 9, 2013 the FCC granted a petition for rulemaking filed by such supplier and issued a notice of proposed rulemaking soliciting comments on a proposal to make additional spectrum available for air-to-ground network connectivity. Competition within the in-flight broadband internet access and in-cabin digital entertainment markets may also subject us to downward pricing pressures. Pricing at too high a level could adversely affect the rate of consumer acceptance for the Gogo service, while increased competition or other market forces could force us to lower our prices or lose market share and could adversely affect growth prospects and profitability. In addition, to the extent that competing in-flight connectivity services offered by commercial airlines that are not our airline partners are available on more aircraft or offer improved quality or reliability as compared to the Gogo service, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Competition could increase our sales and marketing expenses and related customer acquisition costs. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing and support capabilities to continue to compete successfully. A failure to effectively respond to established and new competitors could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our CA business has a limited operating history, which may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and predict our future performance. Prior to August 2008, our operations were limited to our BA segment. We launched our Gogo Connectivity service in August 2008 and had fewer than 300 commercial aircraft online as of June 2009. In addition, both Gogo Vision and our in-flight platform, which provides the majority of our Gogo Signature Services, were not launched until the second half of 2011. Further, our expansion of our CA business internationally began in the first quarter of 2012. The limited operating history of our CA business and particularly, our CA-ROW segment, may make it difficult to accurately evaluate the CA business and predict its future performance, and the growth of our CA-NA segment since inception is not necessarily indicative of potential future growth. Any assessments of our current business and predictions that we or you make about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, and the size and nature of our market opportunity will change as we scale our business and increase deployment of the Gogo service. If we do not address any of the foregoing risks successfully, our business will be harmed. We face limitations on our ability to grow our domestic operations which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Our addressable market and our ability to expand domestically at our current rate of growth are inherently limited by various factors, including limitations on the number of U.S. commercial airlines with which we could partner, the number of planes in which our equipment can be installed, the passenger capacity within each plane and the ability of our network infrastructure or bandwidth to accommodate increasing capacity demands. Expansion is also limited by our ability to develop new technologies and successfully implement our technology roadmap on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our growth may slow, or we may stop growing altogether, to the extent that we have exhausted all potential airline partners and as we approach installation on full fleets and maximum penetration rates on all flights. To continue to grow our domestic revenue as Gogo Connectivity gains wider acceptance and we reach maximum penetration, we will have to rely on customer and airline partner adoption of currently available and new or developing services and additional offerings, including Gogo Vision 24 Table of Contents and Gogo Signature Services, and airline adoption of operations-oriented communications services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to profitably expand our existing market presence or establish new markets and, if we fail to do so, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be unsuccessful in expanding our operations internationally. Our efforts to expand the services provided by our CA business to aircraft flying internationally began in the first quarter of 2012. Our ability to grow our international business involves various risks, including the need to invest significant resources in unfamiliar markets, the amount of which is subject to certain limitations under our new senior secured credit facility, and the possibility that we may not realize a return on our investments in the near future or at all. In addition, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expenses before we generate any material revenue in these new markets. Under our agreements with providers of satellite capacity, we are obligated to purchase bandwidth for specified periods in advance. If we are unable to generate sufficient passenger demand or airline partners to which we provide satellite service to their aircraft terminate their agreements with us for any reason during these periods, we may be forced to incur satellite costs in excess of connectivity revenue generated through such satellites. Further, our expansion plans require significant management attention and resources and our CA business has limited experience in selling our solutions in international markets or in conforming to local cultures, standards or policies. Certain of our competitors, including current providers of Ku-band satellite service, have more experience than we do in the international commercial airline connectivity market. As a result, certain of our competitors may have pre-existing relationships with international airlines, may have obtained regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions or may already offer their equipment as standard, line-fit options on aircraft types, which may negatively affect our ability to enter into agreements with new international airline partners. Expansion of international marketing and advertising efforts could lead to a significant increase in our marketing and advertising expenses and would increase our customer acquisition costs. We may not be able to compete successfully in these international markets, and we may be unable to enter into agreements on favorable terms, if at all, to provide connectivity services to international fleets of our existing North American airline partners and to new international airline partners. In addition, our ability to expand will be limited by the demand for in-flight broadband internet access in international markets. Any failure to compete successfully in international markets could also negatively impact our reputation and domestic operations. Any future international operations may fail to succeed due to risks inherent in foreign operations, including: • legal and regulatory restrictions, including different communications, privacy, censorship, aerospace and liability standards, intellectual property laws and enforcement practices; • changes in international regulatory requirements and tariffs; • restrictions on the ability of U.S. companies to do business in foreign countries, including restrictions on foreign ownership of telecommunications providers and imposed by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”); • inability to find content or service providers to partner with on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; • compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the (U.K.) Bribery Act 2010 and other similar corruption laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate and related risks; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • currency fluctuations; and • potential adverse tax consequences. 25 Table of Contents As a result of these obstacles, we may find it difficult or prohibitively expensive to grow our business internationally or we may be unsuccessful in our attempt to do so, which could harm our future operating results and financial condition. Our technology roadmap calls for the continued roll-out of Ku-band satellite service and, as and when available, the use of other satellite-based solutions, including Ka-band satellite service. Pursuant to an agreement with Inmarsat S.A., we are authorized to distribute Inmarsat’s Global Xpress broadband internet access. Given the potentially extended lead time and cost necessary to implement Inmarsat’s Ka-band satellite solution, potential delays in launching Inmarsat’s services and the fact that we would not be the exclusive provider of Inmarsat satellite service, we may not realize any of the expected benefits from our agreement with Inmarsat, and, as a result, our growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. To the extent that our satellite service providers do not satisfy our or our airline partners’ needs for any reason, our agreements with our satellite service providers do not yield the expected benefits, we fail to meet sales targets and other milestones set forth in the agreements or we otherwise fail to maintain a good working relationship with our satellite service providers, our current or future providers of satellite service may be unable to support our current international expansion plans. In addition, to the extent we enter into additional contracts to provide satellite-based connectivity service to airline partners, we will be required to secure additional satellite capacity, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we do not secure sufficient satellite capacity, we may be unable to meet the connectivity needs of passengers or the minimum service level requirements specified in our connectivity agreements, which could cause us to be in breach of our connectivity agreements and otherwise negatively affect our ability to successfully develop our international business. We may be unsuccessful in generating or increasing revenue from Gogo Vision, Gogo Signature Services, Gogo Text & Talk and other services that we may offer in the future. The future growth prospects for our CA business depend, in part, on passengers paying for Gogo Vision on-demand video content, on revenue from advertising fees and e-commerce revenue share arrangements on passenger purchases of goods and services through the in-flight portal, and on revenue from Gogo Text & Talk. Our ability to generate revenue from such services and other services we may offer in the future depends on: • growth of our customer base; • rolling out Gogo Vision or such other services on more aircraft and with additional airline partners and increasing passenger adoption; • our customer base being attractive to media partners; • establishing and maintaining beneficial contractual relationships with media partners whose content, products and services are attractive to airline passengers; and • our ability to customize and improve services in response to trends and customer interests. If we are unsuccessful in generating or increasing revenue from Gogo Vision and our in-flight platform, our future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be successful in our efforts to develop and monetize new products and services that are currently in development, including our operations-oriented communications services. In order to continue to meet the evolving needs of our airline partners and customers, we must continue to develop new products and services that are responsive to those needs, including operations-oriented communications services. Our ability to realize the benefits of enabling airlines and other aircraft operators to use these applications, including monetizing our services at a profitable price point, depends, in part, on the adoption and utilization of such applications by airlines and other aircraft operators, and we cannot be certain that airlines and other aircraft operators will adopt such offerings in the near term or at all. We also expect to continue to rely 26 Table of Contents on third parties to develop and offer the operational applications to be used to gather and process data transmitted on our network between the aircraft and the ground, and we cannot be certain that such applications will be compatible with our network or onboard equipment or otherwise meet the needs of airlines or other aircraft operators. If we are not successful in our efforts to develop and monetize new products and services, including our operations-oriented communications services, our future business prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The recent merger of American Airlines and US Airways could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. On December 9, 2013, American Airlines and US Airways merged into American Airlines Group, Inc. Both American Airlines and US Airways are our airline partners. The impact of the merger is inherently uncertain, and could result in reductions or other changes to the airlines’ fleets, including the elimination of their older or less efficient aircraft and the elimination of aircraft on duplicative routes, which may represent a material portion of their Gogo-equipped fleets, or taking planes scheduled for installation of Gogo equipment out of service. Our future revenue may decrease and our growth prospects and results of operations could be materially adversely affected to the extent that aircraft eliminated from service are not proximately replaced with new Gogo-equipped aircraft. A future act or threat of terrorism or other events could result in a prohibition on the use of Wi-Fi enabled devices on aircraft. A future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts or other airline accidents could have an adverse effect on the airline industry. In the event of a terrorist attack, terrorist threats or unrelated airline accidents, the industry would likely experience significantly reduced passenger demand. The U.S. federal government or foreign governments could respond to such events by prohibiting the use of Wi-Fi enabled devices on aircraft, which would eliminate demand for our equipment and service. In addition, any association or perceived association between our equipment or service and accidents involving aircraft on which our equipment or service operates would likely have an adverse effect on demand for our equipment and service. Reduced demand for our products and services would adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Air traffic congestion at airports, air traffic control inefficiencies, weather conditions, such as hurricanes or blizzards, increased security measures, new travel-related taxes, the outbreak of disease or any other similar event could harm the airline industry. Airlines are subject to cancellations or delays caused by factors beyond their control. Cancellations or delays due to weather conditions or natural disasters, air traffic control problems, including work stoppages or reduced government funding, breaches in security, outbreaks of communicable diseases in regions served by equipped aircraft or other factors could reduce the number of passengers on commercial flights and thereby reduce demand for the Gogo service and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our BA Business Equipment sales to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and after-market dealers account for the substantial majority of our revenue and earnings in the BA segment, and the loss of an OEM or dealer customer could materially and adversely affect our business and profitability. Revenue from equipment sales on contracts with OEMs and after-market dealers accounted for more than 55% of revenue generated by our BA segment for each fiscal period presented in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of Cessna Aircraft Company and Gulfstream, through direct sales and sales through affiliated dealers and service centers, accounted for approximately 10% of revenue generated by our BA segment for the year ended December 31, 2013. Almost 27 Table of Contents all of our contracts with our OEM and dealer customers are terminable at will by either party and do not obligate our customers to purchase any of our equipment or services. If a key OEM or dealer terminates its relationship with us for any reason or our contract expires and is not renewed our business and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Our OEM customers may be materially adversely impacted by economic downturns and market disruptions. In anticipation of changing economic conditions, our customers may be more conservative in their production, which would result in fewer new aircraft available to receive our equipment. Further, unfavorable market conditions could cause one or more of our OEM customers to file for bankruptcy, which could have an adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in highly competitive markets with competitors who may have greater resources than we possess, which could reduce the volume of products we can sell and our operating margins. Our BA equipment and service are sold in highly competitive markets. Some of our competitors are larger, more diversified corporations and have greater financial, marketing, production, and research and development resources. As a result, they may be better able to withstand the effects of periodic economic downturns or may offer a broader product line to customers. Our operations and financial performance will be negatively impacted if our competitors: • develop service that is superior to our service; • develop service that is priced more competitively than our service; • develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services; or • adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. We believe that the principal points of competition in our BA segment are technological capabilities, price, customer service, product development, conformity to customer specifications, quality of support after the sale and timeliness of delivery and installation. Maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment in technology, manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing and customer service and support. If we do not maintain sufficient resources to make these investments or are not successful in maintaining our competitive position, our operations and financial performance will suffer. In addition, competition may subject us to downward pricing pressures. Pricing at too high a level could adversely affect our ability to gain new customers and retain current customers, while increased competition could force us to lower our prices or lose market share and could adversely affect growth prospects and profitability. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise or support capabilities to continue to compete successfully. A failure to respond to established and new competitors could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our equipment. Further, we enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, so we take the risk for cost overruns. Many of our OEM customers may terminate their contracts with us on short notice and, in many cases, our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our equipment. In addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon non-binding production schedules provided by OEMs, the historical purchasing patterns of customers, and informal discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a customer or group of customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, pursuant to many of our contracts with our OEM customers, we have agreed to deliver equipment and/or services, including equipment and services not yet in production, for a fixed price and, accordingly, take the risk of any cost overruns. Also, we may accept a fixed-price contract for equipment that we 28 Table of Contents have not yet produced, and the fact that we have not yet produced the equipment increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. Many of the risks that could harm our CA business could also adversely affect our BA business. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 approximately 64%, 55%, and 55% of the equipment revenue, respectively, and approximately 77%, 77%, and 64% of the service revenue, respectively, for our BA segment was attributable to the sale of ATG equipment and subscriptions for our Gogo Biz in-flight broadband internet service. As such, many of the risks described above relating to our CA business and the Gogo service could also have a material adverse effect on our BA business, including expected capacity constraints on our network in the near-term, our ability to successfully implement technology enhancements to our network and our ability to successfully develop and deploy new products and services and generate revenue and profits from the sale of such products and services. Risks Related to Our Technology and Intellectual Property and Regulation Our CA-NA and BA businesses are dependent on our right to use spectrum exclusively licensed to us. In June 2006, we purchased at FCC auction an exclusive ten-year, 3 MHz license for ATG spectrum that expires in October 2016, and in April 2013, as part of our acquisition of Airfone, we acquired an additional 1MHz ATG spectrum license that expires in October 2016. Prior to expiration of the initial license terms, we expect to apply to renew our licenses for additional ten-year terms without further payment. Any breach of the terms of our FCC licenses or FCC regulations including foreign ownership restrictions, permitted uses of the spectrum and compliance with Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) regulations, could result in the revocation, suspension, cancellation or reduction in the term of our licenses or a refusal by the FCC to renew the licenses upon expiration. Further, in connection with an application to renew our licenses upon expiration, a competitor could file a petition opposing such renewal on anti-competitive or other grounds. Our ability to offer in-flight broadband internet access through our ATG service currently depends on our ability to maintain rights to use the 3MHz ATG spectrum in the U.S. and our failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our ability to meet increasing capacity demands and expand our service offerings in the United States may depend upon our ability to maintain rights to use the 1MHz ATG spectrum and/or to obtain sufficient rights to use additional means to provide in-flight internet connectivity including spectrum for ATG or satellite. Obtaining such spectrum can be a lengthy and costly process. We may not be able to license or maintain the spectrum necessary to execute our business strategy. While our spectrum license allow us to be the exclusive provider of ATG broadband connectivity in the United States, additional ATG spectrum may become available in the United States or internationally in the future. While we are currently the only provider of ATG service in the United States, the FCC may in the future decide to auction additional spectrum for ATG use that is not currently designated for that purpose, or a competitor could develop technology or a business plan that allows it to cost effectively use spectrum not specifically reserved for ATG, but on which ATG use is not prohibited, to provide broadband connectivity. The single provider of a critical component of our ATG and ATG-4 networks filed a petition with the FCC requesting that it commence a rulemaking proceeding to designate certain spectrum, currently designated for non-ATG use, for use by ATG devices in an amount sufficient to accommodate more than one additional ATG network. Under rules proposed by the petition, one provider could acquire all of the spectrum. On May 9, 2013, the FCC granted the petition and issued a notice of proposed rulemaking. As a result of this rulemaking process or otherwise the FCC may decide to auction off spectrum for ATG use and if we failed to adequately secure rights to such additional spectrum, the additional ATG spectrum, which may have greater capacity than our current spectrum, could be held by, or available for license to, our competitors. In order to remain competitive, we may have to make significant expenditures to purchase or lease spectrum that is currently held by other licensees or that is 29 Table of Contents newly auctioned for ATG use. The availability of additional spectrum in the marketplace that is authorized for ATG use may increase the possibility that we may face competition from one or more other ATG service providers in the future. In addition, the FCC recently adopted an order establishing a more streamlined process for obtaining authority to provide satellite-based in-flight broadband service over the U.S., which could help facilitate the market entry of additional satellite-based competitors. While our international competition currently consists of satellite-based interconnectivity services, discussions are occurring in the European Union and elsewhere regarding the possible allocation of spectrum for ATG service. In the event that spectrum becomes available in one or more regions for such purpose and is acquired by our existing competitors or new entrants, we could face competition from such providers in such regions. We face specific risks related to the provision of telecommunications and data services by satellite. We rely on third-party suppliers for services and equipment that we use to provide satellite telecommunication and connectivity services to commercial airline passengers and business aviation customers. We generated approximately 7%, 8%, and 10% of total BA segment revenue from subscriptions for voice and data services provided via satellite for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. These voice and data services are provided in our BA segment through the resale on a non-exclusive basis of satellite-based telecommunications and data services owned and operated by third parties. We currently rely on two satellite partners to provide these services to our BA customers and have a number of satellite resellers as our competitors. Our agreements with our BA satellite partners are short-term in nature and one is subject to termination for convenience on 90 days’ notice. We also have agreements with three CA satellite partners, the earliest of which expires in 2017, to provide Ku-band and Ka-band satellite service on a non-exclusive basis. If any of these agreements were terminated or not renewed upon expiration, or if any of our satellite partners fail to obtain, or lose, necessary regulatory authorizations, we could face material delays or interruptions in the provision of service to our customers that rely on satellite service for connectivity or other voice and data services. Our agreement with Inmarsat for the provision of Ka-band satellite service permits Inmarsat to terminate the agreement on 30 days’ notice if we do not meet certain targets and milestones, including our entry into agreements to offer its Global Xpress Ka-band satellite service to specified numbers of airlines and aircraft and the completion of the first test-flight demonstrating the use of Global Xpress service. If our agreements with our satellite partners were terminated or expired and were not renewed, we may not be able to find alternative satellite partners on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Certain of our agreements with satellite service providers commit us to purchase bandwidth up to five years in advance, which may exceed passenger demand and require us to incur unnecessary costs. See “—We may be unsuccessful in expanding our operations internationally.” In addition, our agreements with satellite service providers may also contain terms, such as those related to termination, pricing and service levels, that are not consistent with our obligations under our connectivity agreements with airline partners that rely on such satellite service for connectivity. Such misalignment could cause us to be in breach of such connectivity agreements, and we may be unable to seek indemnification for such losses from our satellite service providers. Further, if our satellite partners were to increase the fees they charge us for resale of their services and we could not pass these increased costs on to our customers, it would increase our cost of service revenue and adversely impact our business and results of operations. We also have an agreement with a third party to provide the equipment, including radome, antenna and modems, necessary for us to provide our Ku-band satellite service. That agreement expires in 2015 and renews automatically from year to year thereafter. If that agreement, or any other agreement with equipment providers, were terminated for any reason or expired and were not renewed, we may not be able to find alternative equipment providers on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, which could delay our ability to roll out our satellite service to airline partners and adversely impact our business and results of operations. In addition, we are required to obtain regulatory approvals for the provision of satellite service from certain foreign telecommunications regulatory bodies. 30 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with the Communications Act and FCC regulations limiting ownership and voting of our capital stock by non-U.S. persons we could lose our FCC license. Under the Communications Act and applicable FCC regulations, we are effectively restricted from having more than 25% of our capital stock owned or voted directly or indirectly by non-U.S. persons, including individuals and entities organized outside the United States or controlled by non-U.S. persons. We have established procedures to ascertain the nature and extent of our foreign ownership, and we believe that the indirect ownership of our equity by foreign persons or entities is below the 25% cap. However, as a publicly traded company we may not be able to determine with certainty the exact amount of our stock that is held by foreign persons or entities at any given time. A failure to comply with applicable restrictions on ownership by non-U.S. persons could result in an order to divest the offending ownership, fines, denial of license renewal and/or spectrum license revocation proceedings, any of which would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We could be adversely affected if we suffer service interruptions or delays, technology failures or damage to our equipment. Our brand, reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our customers depend upon the reliable performance of our in-flight website, network infrastructure, content delivery processes and payment systems. We have experienced interruptions in these systems in the past, including server failures that temporarily slowed down our website’s performance and users’ access to the internet, or made our website inaccessible, and we may experience service interruptions, service delays or technology or systems failures in the future, which may be due to factors beyond our control. In the past, service failures or delays of our website have been remedied by bypassing the payment processing step for users and directly connecting such users to the internet, leading to a loss of revenue for those sessions. If we experience frequent system or network failures, our reputation, brand and customer retention could be harmed, we may lose revenue to the extent that we have to bypass the payment processing step in order to maintain customers’ connectivity to the internet and our airline partners may have the right to terminate their contracts with us or pursue other remedies. Our operations and services depend upon the extent to which our equipment and the equipment of our third-party network providers is protected against damage or interruption from fire, flood, earthquakes, tornados, power loss, solar flares, telecommunication failures, break-ins, acts of war or terrorism and similar events. The capacity, reliability and security of our network infrastructure are important to the operation of our business, which would suffer in the event of system disruptions or failures, such as computer hackings, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks or other malicious activities. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to these attacks and unauthorized access. In addition, the satellites upon which we rely for current and will rely for future services are and will be subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, which have occurred and may occur in the future as a result of various factors, such as satellite design and manufacturing defects, problems with the power or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. Damage to our or third parties’ networks could cause interruptions in the services that we provide. Such interruptions in our services could have a material adverse effect on service revenue, our reputation and our ability to attract or retain customers. We rely on single service providers for certain critical components of our network. We rely on single source suppliers for a number of critical components of our network and operations. For example, we purchase all of the aircards used for our ATG and ATG-4 equipment from a single provider an affiliate of which we believe holds all of the patents for these components. This supplier has petitioned the FCC to designate certain spectrum for use as an additional ATG network and, as such, may in the future become our direct competitor. If we are required to find one or more alternative suppliers for aircards or any other component 31 Table of Contents for which we may rely on a single source supplier, we may not be able to contract with them on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Additionally, we purchase equipment for all of the base stations used at our cell-sites from a single provider. The base stations used at our cell-sites may require six to nine months lead time to produce and are highly integrated with other components of our network. If we needed to seek one or more alternate suppliers for our base stations, we estimate that it could take up to a year or more before any such alternate supplier could deliver a component that meets our network requirements. We also license all of our ATG-4 bandwidth optimization software from a single provider. If we are required to find one or more alternative suppliers for this or comparable software, we may not be able to contract with them on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we purchase the components of the airborne equipment that will be used to provide our Ku-band satellite service from single source providers. If we are required to find one or more alternative suppliers for any of these components, we may not be able to contract with them on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which could adversely impact our ability to roll out our Ku-band satellite service with our current or future airline partners. The lack of alternative suppliers could lead to higher prices and a failure by any of our single source providers to continue to produce the component, or to otherwise fulfill its obligations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Assertions by third parties of infringement, misappropriation or other violations by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and operating results. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including the wireless communications industry. We have faced, are currently facing and may face from time to time in the future, allegations that we or a supplier or customer have violated the rights of third parties, including patent, trademark and other intellectual property rights If, with respect to any claim against us for violation of third party intellectual property rights, we are unable to prevail in the litigation or retain or obtain sufficient rights or develop non-infringing intellectual property or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely or cost-efficient basis, our business and competitive position may be materially adversely affected. Many companies, including our competitors, are devoting significant resources to obtaining patents that could potentially cover many aspects of our business. In addition, there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. We have not exhaustively searched patents relevant to our technologies and business and therefore it is possible that we may be unknowingly infringing the patents of others. Any infringement, misappropriation or related claims, whether or not meritorious, are time-consuming, divert technical and management personnel and are costly to resolve. As a result of any such dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, pay damages, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, cease providing certain products or services, adjust our merchandizing or marketing and advertising activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. Pursuant to our contracts with our airline partners and certain BA customers, we have agreed to indemnify our airline partners and such customers against such claims and lawsuits, and, in some cases, our contracts do not cap our indemnification obligations, which, in addition to obligating us to pay defense costs, could result in significant indemnification obligations in the event of an adverse ruling in such an action. In addition, certain of our suppliers do not indemnify us for third party infringement or misappropriation claims arising from our use of supplier technology. As a result, we may be liable in the event of such claims. Any of these events could result in increases in operating expenses, limit our service offerings or result in a loss of business if we are unable to meet our indemnification obligations and our airline partners terminate or fail to renew their contracts. 32 Table of Contents If we fail to meet agreed upon minimums or other milestones under certain supply agreements, such suppliers may sell critical components to third parties, leading to increased competition, or could terminate their agreements with us, which could have a material adverse effect on the expected growth of our business. Our agreement with one of our suppliers of wireless access points includes provisions permitting such supplier to sell to third parties if we fail to meet specified minimum purchase requirements. In addition, our agreement with Inmarsat for the provision of Ka-band satellite service permits Inmarsat to terminate the agreement on 30 days’ notice if we do not meet certain targets and milestones, including our entry into agreements to offer its Global Xpress Ka-band satellite service to specified numbers of airlines and aircraft and the completion of the first test-flight demonstrating the use of Global Xpress service. Any of these events could cause us to face increased competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We or our technology suppliers may be unable to continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to consumers. The market for our services is characterized by evolving technology, changes in customer needs and frequent new service and product introductions. Our future success will depend, in part, on our and our suppliers’ ability to continue to enhance or develop new technology and services that meet customer needs on a timely and cost-effective basis. If we or our suppliers fail to adapt quickly enough to changing technology, customer requirements and/or industry standards, our service offerings may fail to meet customer needs or regulatory requirements. We may have to invest significant capital to keep pace with innovation and changing technology, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Furthermore, the proliferation of new mobile devices, including tablets, and operating platforms poses challenges for our research and development efforts. If we are unable to create, or obtain rights to, simple solutions for a particular device or operating platform, we will be unable to effectively attract users of these devices or operating platforms and our business will be adversely affected. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, domain names and similar intellectual property as important to our success. We rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality agreements with our employees, vendors, airline partners, customers and others to protect our proprietary rights. We have sought and obtained patent protection for certain of our technologies in the United States and certain other countries. Many of the trademarks that we use (including marks we have applied to register) contain words or terms having a somewhat common usage, such as “In Air. Online.” and “Gogo Vision” and, as a result, we may have difficulty registering them in certain jurisdictions. We do not own, for example, the domain www.gogo.com and we have not yet obtained registrations for our most important marks in all markets in which we may do business in the future, including China and India. If other companies have registered or have been using in commerce similar trademarks for services similar to ours in foreign jurisdictions, we may have difficulty in registering, or enforcing an exclusive right to use, our marks in those foreign jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be sufficient or effective, that any pending or future patent and trademark applications will lead to issued patents and registered trademarks in all instances, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior technologies, products or services, or that our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, misappropriated or infringed by others. Furthermore, the intellectual property laws and enforcement practices of other countries in which our service is or may in the future be offered may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use, our ability to exploit our proprietary technology or our brand image may be harmed and, as a result, our business and results of operations may suffer. 33 Table of Contents Our use of open source software could limit our ability to commercialize our technology. Open source software is software made widely and freely available to the public in human-readable source code form, usually with liberal rights to modify and improve such software. Some open source licenses require as a condition of use that proprietary software that is combined with licensed open source software and distributed must be released to the public in source code form and under the terms of the open source license. Accordingly, depending on the manner in which such licenses were interpreted and applied, we could face restrictions on our ability to commercialize certain of our products and we could be required to (i) release the source code of certain of our proprietary software to the public, including competitors; (ii) seek licenses from third parties for replacement software; and/or (iii) re-engineer our software in order to continue offering our products. Such consequences could materially adversely affect our business. The failure of our equipment or material defects or errors in our software may damage our reputation, result in claims against us that exceed our insurance coverage, thereby requiring us to pay significant damages and impair our ability to sell our service. Our products contain complex systems and components that could contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology. If any of our products are defective, we could be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such events could result in significant expenses, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products. If our on-board equipment has a malfunction, or there is a problem with the equipment installation, which damages an airplane or impairs its on-board electronics or avionics, significant property loss and serious personal injury or death could result. Any such failure could expose us to substantial product liability claims or costly repair obligations. In particular, the passenger jets operated by our airline partners are very costly to repair and therefore the damages in any product liability claims could be material. We carry aircraft and non-aircraft product liability insurance consistent with industry norms. However, this insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover the payment of any claims. A product recall or a product liability claim not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we indemnify most of our airline partners for losses due to third-party claims and in certain cases the causes for such losses may include failure of our products. Our business, financial condition and results of operations would also be materially adversely affected should we be required by the FAA or otherwise to cease providing the Gogo service, even on a temporary basis, as a result of a product malfunction or defect. The software underlying our services is inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when the software is first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects or errors in our software, and defects or errors in our existing software may be detected in the future. Any defects or errors that cause interruptions to the availability of our services could result in: • termination or failure to renew contracts by our airline partners; • a reduction in sales or delay in market acceptance of our service; • sales credits or refunds to our customers and airline partners; • loss of existing customers and difficulty in attracting new customers; • diversion of development resources; • harm to our reputation and brand image; • increased insurance costs; and • claims for substantial damages. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our software may be substantial and could harm our results of operations. 34 Table of Contents Regulation by United States and foreign government agencies, including the FCC, which issued our exclusive ATG spectrum license, and the FAA, which regulates the civil aviation manufacturing and repair industries in the United States, may increase our costs of providing service or require us to change our services. We are subject to various regulations, including those regulations promulgated by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies and comparable agencies outside the United States where we may do business. The two U.S. government agencies that have primary regulatory authority over our operations are the FCC and the FAA. The FCC regulates our use of the spectrum licensed to us and the licensing, construction, modification, operation, ownership, sale and interconnection of wireless telecommunications systems. Any breach of the terms of our ATG spectrum license or other licenses and authorizations obtained by us from time to time, or any violation of the Communications Act or the FCC’s rules, could result in the revocation, suspension, cancellation or reduction in the term of a license or the imposition of fines. From time to time, the FCC may monitor or audit compliance with the Communications Act and the FCC’s rules or with our licenses, including if a third party were to bring a claim of breach or noncompliance. In addition, the Communications Act, from which the FCC obtains its authority, may be amended in the future in a manner that could be adverse to us. The FCC is currently conducting rulemaking proceedings to consider the service rules for certain aeronautical services and recently granted a petition and issued a notice of proposed rulemaking in connection with a request to designate certain spectrum, currently designated for non-ATG use, for ATG service. The timetable and ultimate outcome of such rulemaking processes are unknown and we are unable to determine whether they would have an effect on our business. The commercial and private aviation industries, including civil aviation manufacturing and repair industries, are highly regulated in the United States by the FAA. FAA certification is required for all equipment we install on commercial aircraft and type certificated business aircraft, and certain of our operating activities require that we obtain FAA certification as a parts manufacturer. As discussed in more detail in the section entitled “Business—Licenses and Regulation—Federal Aviation Administration,” FAA approvals required to operate our business include Supplemental Type Certificates (STCs) and Parts Manufacturing Authority (PMA). Obtaining STCs and PMAs is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant focus and resources. Any inability to obtain, delay in obtaining, or change in, needed FAA certifications, authorizations, or approvals, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our installation commitments, manufacture and sell parts for installation on aircraft, or expand our business and could, therefore, materially adversely affect our growth prospects, business and operating results. For example, a recent decision by the FAA to require additional testing for the radome we currently plan to use to provide our Ku-band satellite service has delayed and, to the extent that we and other affected providers of such services cannot satisfy the FAA’s testing criteria, will continue to delay, our and their ability to install this equipment and may require a redesign of the equipment or the use of alternative equipment. Under a contract with Delta Air Lines to provide Ku-band satellite connectivity service on its international fleet, if the delay in obtaining approvals for our Ku-band satellite service extends beyond specified dates as adjusted for excusable delays, we may be in material breach of the contract, which would permit Delta to terminate the contract. The FAA closely regulates many of our operations. If we fail to comply with the FAA’s many regulations and standards that apply to our activities, we could lose the FAA certifications, authorizations, or other approvals on which our manufacturing, installation, maintenance, preventive maintenance, and alteration capabilities are based. In addition, from time to time, the FAA or comparable foreign agencies adopt new regulations or amend existing regulations. The FAA could also change its policies regarding the delegation of inspection and certification responsibilities to private companies, which could adversely affect our business. To the extent that any such new regulations or amendments to existing regulations or policies apply to our activities, those new regulations or amendments to existing regulations generally increase our costs of compliance. As a provider of telecommunications services in the business aviation industry, we are required to contribute a percentage of all revenue generated from interstate or international telecommunications services (or voice over 35 Table of Contents internet protocol (VoIP) services, which we plan to offer) to the federal Universal Service Fund, which subsidizes telecommunications services in areas that are expensive to serve. The FCC currently is considering a number of reforms to its Universal Service Fund mechanisms that would expand the scope of that regulatory regime to cover broadband internet access services. Such reforms may include, but are not limited to, imposing obligations on broadband internet access service providers to contribute a percentage of the revenue earned from such services to the Universal Service Fund. To the extent the FCC adopts new contribution requirements that apply to broadband internet providers or otherwise imposes additional contribution obligations, such requirements and obligations may increase the costs we incur to comply with such regulations. As a broadband internet provider, we must comply with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act of 1994, or CALEA, which requires communications carriers to ensure that their equipment, facilities and services can accommodate certain technical capabilities in executing authorized wiretapping and other electronic surveillance. Currently, our CALEA solution is fully deployed in our network. However, we could be subject to an enforcement action by the FCC or law enforcement agencies for any delays related to meeting, or if we fail to comply with, any current or future CALEA, or similarly mandated law enforcement related, obligations. Such enforcement actions could subject us to fines, cease and desist orders, or other penalties, all of which could adversely affect our business. Further, to the extent the FCC adopts additional capability requirements applicable to broadband internet providers, its decision may increase the costs we incur to comply with such regulations. In addition to these U.S. agencies, we are also subject to regulation by foreign government agencies that choose to assert jurisdiction over us as a result of the service we provide on aircraft that fly international routes, including Industry Canada, which issued our exclusive Canadian ATG subordinate spectrum license and regulates our use of the spectrum licensed to us. Adverse decisions or regulations of these U.S. and foreign regulatory bodies could negatively impact our operations and costs of doing business and could delay the roll-out of our services and have other adverse consequences for us. For example, a contract covering the international fleet of Delta Air Lines permits such airline to terminate its contract with us if we have not, by specified dates, obtained the FCC and foreign governmental regulatory approvals required to provide our Ku-band satellite service on aircraft flying such partner’s international routes. Our ability to obtain certain regulatory approvals to offer the Gogo service internationally may also be the responsibility of a third party, and, therefore, may be out of our control. We are unable to predict the scope, pace or financial impact of regulations and other policy changes that could be adopted by the various governmental entities that oversee portions of our business. If government regulation of the internet, including e-commerce or online video distribution changes, we may need to change the way we conduct our business to a manner that incurs greater operating expenses, which could harm our results of operations. The current legal environment for internet communications, products and services is uncertain and subject to statutory, regulatory or interpretive change. We cannot be certain that we, our vendors and media partners or our customers are currently in compliance with applicable regulatory or other legal requirements in the countries in which our service is used. Our failure, or the failure of our vendors and media partners, customers and others with whom we transact business to comply with existing or future legal or regulatory requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulators may disagree with our interpretations of existing laws or regulations or the applicability of existing laws or regulations to our business, and existing laws, regulations and interpretations may change in unexpected ways. For example, in December 2010 the FCC adopted regulations regarding net neutrality that, in certain situations, limit mobile broadband providers to “network management” techniques that are reasonable. Although these rules were recently struck down by a Federal court, future guidance or precedent from the FCC regarding the interpretation of what techniques are considered “reasonable” could adversely impact our ability to monitor and manage the network to optimize our users’ internet experience. Other jurisdictions may adopt similar or different regulations that could affect our ability to use “network management” techniques. Likewise, the United States and the European Union, among other jurisdictions, are considering proposals regarding data protection that, if adopted, 36 Table of Contents could impose heightened restrictions on certain of Gogo’s activities relating to the collection and use of data of end users. Further, as we promote exclusive content and services and increase targeted advertising with our media partners to customers of the Gogo service, we may attract increased regulatory scrutiny. We cannot be certain what positions regulators may take regarding our compliance with, or lack of compliance with, current and future legal and regulatory requirements or what positions regulators may take regarding any past or future actions we have taken or may take in any jurisdiction. Regulators may determine that we are not in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and impose penalties, or we may need to make changes to the Gogo platform, which could be costly and difficult. Any of these events would adversely affect our operating results and business. The satellites that we currently rely on or may rely on in the future have minimum design lives, but could fail or suffer reduced capacity before then. The usefulness of the satellites upon which we currently rely and may rely on in the future is limited by each satellite’s minimum design life. For example, the satellites through which we will provide Ku-band service have minimum design lives ranging from 10 to 15 years. Our ability to offer in-flight connectivity outside North America and alleviate capacity constraints throughout our network depends on the continued operation of the satellites or any replacement satellites, each of which has a limited useful life. We can provide no assurance, however, as to the actual operational lives of those or future satellites, which may be shorter than their design lives, nor can we provide assurance that replacement satellites will be developed, authorized or successfully deployed. In the event of a failure or loss of any of these satellites, our satellite service providers may relocate another satellite and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such a relocation may require regulatory approval, including through, among other things, a showing that the replacement satellite would not cause additional interference compared to the failed or lost satellite. We cannot be certain that our satellite service provider could obtain such regulatory approval. In addition, we cannot guarantee that another satellite will be available for use as a replacement for a failed or lost satellite, or that such relocation can be accomplished without disrupting or otherwise adversely impacting our business. Satellites that are not yet in service are subject to construction and launch related risks. Satellite construction and launch are subject to significant risks, including delays, launch failure and incorrect orbital placement. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites and to obtain other launch opportunities. Construction and launch delays, including any delay in the launch of satellites intended to support Inmarsat’s Ka-band Global Xpress satellite service or the launch of the satellite scheduled to replace one of the satellites we currently plan to utilize to provide Ku-band satellite service, could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If our efforts to retain and attract customers are not successful, our revenue will be adversely affected. We currently generate substantially all of our revenue from sales of services, some of which are on a subscription basis, and equipment. We must continue to retain existing subscribers and attract new and repeat customers. If we are unable to effectively retain existing subscribers and attract new and repeat customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Unreliable service levels, lack of sufficient capacity, uncompetitive pricing, lack of availability, security risk and lack of related features of our equipment and services are some of the factors that may adversely impact our 37 Table of Contents ability to retain existing customers and partners and attract new and repeat customers. In our CA business, if consumers are able to satisfy their in-flight entertainment needs through activities other than broadband internet access, at no or lower cost, they may not perceive value in our products and services. If our efforts to satisfy and retain our existing customers and subscribers are not successful, we may not be able to continue to attract new customers through word-of-mouth referrals. Any of these factors could cause our customer growth rate to fall, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our contracts with airline partners from which derive a majority of our CA business revenue allow for termination rights if the percentage of passengers using Gogo Connectivity aboard their flights falls below certain thresholds. The demand for in-flight broadband internet access service may decrease or develop more slowly than we expect. We cannot predict with certainty the development of the U.S. or international in-flight broadband internet access market or the market acceptance for our products and services. Our future success depends upon growing demand for in-flight broadband internet access services, which is inherently uncertain. We have invested significant resources towards the roll-out of new service offerings, which represent a substantial part of our growth strategy. We face the risk that the U.S. and international markets for in-flight broadband internet access services may decrease or develop more slowly or differently than we currently expect, or that our services, including our new offerings, may not achieve widespread market acceptance. We may be unable to market and sell our services successfully and cost-effectively to a sufficiently large number of customers. Our business depends on the continued proliferation of Wi-Fi as a standard feature in mobile devices. The growth in demand for in-flight broadband internet access services also depends in part on the continued and increased use of laptops, smartphones, tablet computers, and other Wi-Fi enabled devices and the rate of evolution of data-intensive applications on the mobile internet. If Wi-Fi ceases to be a standard feature in mobile devices, if the rate of integration of Wi-Fi on mobile devices decreases or is slower than expected, or if the use of Wi-Fi enabled devices or development of related applications decreases or grows more slowly than anticipated, the market for our services may be substantially diminished. We have incurred operating losses in every quarter since we launched the Gogo service and may continue to incur quarterly operating losses, which could negatively affect our stock price. We have incurred operating losses in every quarter since we launched the Gogo service in August 2008, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue in the future to generate operating income. We also expect our costs to increase materially in future periods, which could negatively affect our future operating results. We expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on the continued roll-out of our technology roadmap and international expansion. The amount and timing of these costs are subject to numerous variables, and we may not complete the roll-out of our technology roadmap and international expansion prior to the time we have a need for additional funding. Such variables include, for our technology roadmap, the timely and successful roll-out of ATG-4 and Ku-band satellite service, and the timing of the roll-out of other technologies in the future, including Ka-band and other satellite technology, as well as costs incurred to develop and implement changes to ground and airborne software and hardware, costs associated with subsidizing our airline partners’ upgrades to ATG-4 or other contractually obligated upgrades to our connectivity services and, with respect to satellite technologies, the cost of obtaining satellite capacity. With respect to our international expansion, such variables may include, in addition to costs associated with satellite technology as discussed in the preceding sentence, costs incurred to modify our portal for international deployment, costs related to sales and marketing activities and administrative support functions and additional legal and regulatory expenses associated with operating in the international commercial aviation market. In addition, we expect to incur additional general and administrative expenses, including legal and accounting expenses, related to being a public company. These investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. If we fail to continue to grow our revenue and overall business, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 38 Table of Contents We may need additional financing to execute our business plan, which we may not be able to secure on acceptable terms, or at all. We may require additional financing in the near or long term future to execute our business plan, including our technology roadmap, international or domestic expansion plans or other changes. Our success may depend on our ability to raise such additional financing on reasonable terms and on a timely basis. The amount and timing of our capital needs will depend in part on the extent of deployment of the Gogo service, the rate of customer penetration, the adoption of our service by airline partners and other factors set forth above that could adversely affect our business. Conditions in the economy and the financial markets may make it more difficult for us to obtain necessary additional capital or financing on acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot secure sufficient additional financing, we may be forced to forego strategic opportunities or delay, scale back or eliminate additional service deployment, operations and investments or employ internal cost savings measures. Increased costs and other demands associated with our growth could impact our ability to achieve profitability over the long term and could strain our personnel, technology and infrastructure resources. We expect our costs to increase in future periods, which could negatively affect our future operating results. We continue to experience growth in our headcount and operations, which has placed significant demands on our management, administrative, technological, operational and financial infrastructure. Anticipated future growth, including growth related to the broadening of our service offerings, the roll-out of the technology roadmap and other network enhancements and international expansion of our CA business, will require the outlay of significant operating and capital expenditures and will continue to place strains on our personnel, technology and infrastructure. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to contain costs with respect to growth opportunities. To successfully manage the expected growth of our operations, on a timely and cost-effective basis we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial, technological and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. In addition, as we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, and we must maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business. Macro-economic challenges are capable of creating volatile and unpredictable environments for doing business. We cannot predict the nature, extent, timing or likelihood of any economic slowdown or the strength or sustainability of any economic recovery, worldwide, in the United States or in the airline industry. For many travelers, air travel and spending on in-flight internet access are discretionary purchases that they can eliminate in difficult economic times. Additionally, a weaker business environment may lead to a decrease in overall business travel, which has historically been an important contributor to our Gogo service revenue. In addition, continued deteriorating conditions may place market or political pressure on the customers that are served by our BA segment to cut costs including by reducing use of private aircraft. These conditions may make it more difficult or less likely for customers to purchase our equipment and services. If economic conditions in the United States or globally deteriorate further or do not show improvement, we may experience material adverse effects to our business, cash flow and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate unpredictably and may cause us to fail to meet the expectations of investors, adversely affecting our stock price. We operate in a highly dynamic industry and our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our revenue and operating results may vary from quarter to quarter due to many factors, many of which are not within our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Further, it is difficult to accurately forecast our revenue, margin and operating results, and if we 39 Table of Contents fail to match our expected results or the results expected by financial analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected. In addition, due to generally lower demand for business travel during the summer months and holiday periods, and leisure and other travel at other times during the year, our quarterly results may not be indicative of results for the full year. Due to these and other factors, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our historical operating results should not be relied upon as accurate indicators of our future performance. If our marketing and advertising efforts fail to generate additional revenue on a cost-effective basis, or if we are unable to manage our marketing and advertising expenses, it could harm our results of operations and growth. Our future growth and profitability, as well as the maintenance and enhancement of our important brands, including Gogo, will depend in large part on the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing and advertising expenditures. We use a diverse mix of television, print, trade show and online marketing and advertising programs to promote our CA and BA businesses. Significant increases in the pricing of one or more of our marketing and advertising channels could increase our expenses or cause us to choose less expensive, but potentially less effective, marketing and advertising channels. In addition, to the extent we implement new marketing and advertising strategies, we may in the future have significantly higher expenses. We have incurred, and may in the future incur, marketing and advertising expenses significantly in advance of the time we anticipate recognizing revenue associated with such expenses, and our marketing and advertising expenditures may not continue to result in increased revenue or generate sufficient levels of brand awareness. If we are unable to maintain our marketing and advertising channels on cost-effective terms or replace existing marketing and advertising channels with similarly effective channels, our marketing and advertising expenses could increase substantially, our customer levels could be affected adversely, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. In addition, our expanded marketing efforts may increase our customer acquisition cost. For example, our decision to expand our international marketing and advertising efforts could lead to a significant increase in our marketing and advertising expenses. Any of these additional expenses may not result in sufficient customer growth to offset cost, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our possession and use of personal information and the use of credit cards by our customers present risks and expenses that could harm our business. Unauthorized disclosure or manipulation of such data, whether through breach of our network security or otherwise, could expose us to costly litigation and damage our reputation. Maintaining our network security is of critical importance because our online systems store confidential registered user, employee and other sensitive data, such as names, email addresses, addresses and other personal information. We depend on the security of our networks and, in part, on the security of the network infrastructures of our third-party telecommunications service providers, our customer support providers and our other vendors. Unauthorized use of our, or our third-party service providers’, networks, computer systems and services could potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information, including credit card information, of our customers. There can be no assurance that any security measures we, or third parties, take will be effective in preventing these activities. As a result of any such breaches, customers may assert claims of liability against us as a result of any failure by us to prevent these activities. Further, our in-cabin network operates as an open, unsecured Wi-Fi hotspot, and non-encrypted transmissions users send over this network may be vulnerable to access by users on the same plane. These activities may subject us to legal claims, adversely impact our reputation, and interfere with our ability to provide our services, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 40 Table of Contents Failure to protect confidential customer data or to provide customers with adequate notice of our privacy policies could also subject us to liabilities imposed by United States federal and state regulatory agencies or courts. For example, the FCC’s Customer Proprietary Network Information rules, applicable to our satellite-based BA offerings, require us to comply with a range of marketing and privacy safeguards. The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) could assert jurisdiction to impose penalties related to our Gogo Connectivity service if it found our privacy policies or security measures to be inadequate under existing federal law. We could also be subject to certain state laws that impose data breach notification requirements, specific data security obligations, or other consumer privacy-related requirements. Our failure to comply with any of these rules or regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Other countries in which we may operate or from which our services may be offered, including those in the European Union, also have certain privacy and data security requirements that may apply to our business, either now or in the future. These countries’ laws may in some cases be more stringent than the requirements in the United States. For example, European Union member countries have specific requirements relating to cross border transfers of personal information to certain jurisdictions, including to the United States. In addition, some countries have more strict consumer notice and/or consent requirements relating to personal information collection, use or sharing. Moreover, international privacy and data security regulations may become more complex. For example, the European Union is considering a draft proposed data protection regulation which, if enacted, may result in even more restrictive privacy-related requirements. Our failure to comply with other countries’ privacy or data security-related laws, rules or regulations could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, all Gogo Connectivity customers use credit cards to purchase our products and services. Problems with our or our vendors billing software could adversely affect our customer satisfaction and could cause one or more of the major credit card companies to disallow our continued use of their payment services. In addition, if our billing software fails to work properly and, as a result, we do not automatically charge our subscribers’ credit cards on a timely basis or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend upon third parties to manufacture equipment components, provide services for our network and install our equipment. We rely on third-party suppliers for equipment components and services that we use to provide our ATG and satellite telecommunication Wi-Fi services. The supply of third party components and services could be interrupted or halted by a termination of our relationships, a failure of quality control or other operational problems at such suppliers or a significant decline in their financial condition. We also rely on a third party to provide the links between our data centers and our ground network. If we are not able to continue to engage suppliers with the capabilities or capacities required by our business, or if such suppliers fail to deliver quality products, parts, equipment and services on a timely basis consistent with our schedule, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In our CA business, installation and maintenance of our ATG and satellite equipment is performed by employees of third party service providers who are trained by us and, in a number of cases, our airline partners have the right to elect to have their own employees or a third-party service provider of their choice install our equipment directly. In our BA segment, installation of our equipment is performed by the OEMs or dealers who purchase our equipment. Having third parties or our customers install our equipment reduces our control over the installation process, including the timeliness and quality of the installation. If there is an equipment failure, including due to problems with the installation process, our reputation and our relationships with our customers could be harmed. The passenger jets operated by our airline partners are very costly to repair and therefore damages in any claims related to faulty installation could be material. Additionally, we may be forced to pay significant remediation costs to cover equipment failure due to installation problems and we may not be able to be indemnified for a portion or all of these costs. 41 Table of Contents We may fail to recruit, train and retain the highly skilled employees that are necessary to remain competitive and execute our growth strategy. The loss of one or more of our key personnel could harm our business. Competition for key technical personnel in high-technology industries such as ours is intense. We believe that our future success depends in large part on our continued ability to hire, train, retain and leverage the skills of qualified engineers and other highly skilled personnel needed to maintain and grow our ATG and satellite networks and related technology and develop and successfully deploy our technology roadmap and new wireless telecommunications products and technology. We may not be as successful as our competitors at recruiting, training, retaining and utilizing these highly skilled personnel. In particular, we may have more difficulty attracting or retaining highly skilled personnel during periods of poor operating performance. Any failure to recruit, train and retain highly skilled employees could negatively impact our business and results of operations. We depend on the continued service and performance of our key personnel, including Michael Small, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Such individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Gogo and its operations. As a result, if any of these individuals were to leave Gogo, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss of productivity while any such successor obtains the necessary training and expertise. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of our officers or key employees. In addition, much of our key technology and systems are custom-made for our business by our personnel. The loss of key personnel, including key members of our management team, as well as certain of our key marketing or technology personnel, could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. We believe our business depends on strong brands, and if we do not maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to gain new customers and retain customers may be impaired. We believe that our brands are a critical part of our business. We collaborate extensively with our airline partners on the look and feel of the in-flight homepage that their passengers encounter when logging into the Gogo service in flight. In order to maintain strong relationships with our airline partners, we may have to reduce the visibility of the Gogo brand or make other decisions that do not promote and maintain the Gogo brand. In addition, many of our trademarks contain words or terms having a somewhat common usage and, as a result, we may have trouble registering or protecting them in certain jurisdictions, for example, the domain www.gogo.com is not owned by us. If we fail to promote and maintain the “Gogo®” brand, or if we incur significant expenses to promote the brands and are still unsuccessful in maintaining strong brands, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Businesses or technologies we acquire could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our ongoing business, dilute stockholder value or have an adverse effect on our results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we may engage in acquisitions of businesses or technologies to augment our organic or internal growth. We do not have any meaningful experience with integrating and managing acquired businesses or assets. Acquisitions involve challenges and risks in negotiation, execution, valuation and integration. Moreover, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities on terms that are acceptable to us. Even if successfully negotiated, closed and integrated, certain acquisitions may not advance our business strategy, may fall short of expected return-on-investment targets or may fail. Any future acquisition could involve numerous risks, including: • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • difficulty integrating the operations and products of the acquired business; • use of cash to fund the acquisition or for unanticipated expenses; • limited market experience in new businesses; 42 Table of Contents • exposure to unknown liabilities, including litigation against the companies we acquire; • additional costs due to differences in culture, geographical locations and duplication of key talent; • delays associated with or resources being devoted to regulatory review and approval; • acquisition-related accounting charges affecting our balance sheet and operations; • difficulty integrating the financial results of the acquired business in our consolidated financial statements; • controls in the acquired business; • potential impairment of goodwill; • dilution to our current stockholders from the issuance of equity securities; and • potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company. In the event we enter into any acquisition agreements, closing of the transactions could be delayed or prevented by regulatory approval requirements, including antitrust review, or other conditions. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any attempted acquisitions, and we could assume the economic risks of such failed or unsuccessful acquisitions. Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could have a material effect on our results of operations. The provision of equipment to our airline partners involves significant accounts receivable attributable to equipment receivables, which may not be settled on a timely basis. The large majority of our service revenue in our CA business is generated from credit card transactions and credit card accounts receivable are typically settled between one and three business days. Service and equipment revenues in our BA segment are directly billed to customers. Difficulties in enforcing contracts, collecting accounts receivables or longer payment cycles could lead to material fluctuations in our cash flows and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Expenses or liabilities resulting from litigation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, we may be subject to claims or litigation in the ordinary course of our business, including for example, claims related to employment matters and class action lawsuits. Our operations are characterized by the use of new technologies and services across multiple jurisdictions that implicate a number of statutory schemes and a range of rules and regulations that may be subject to broad or creative interpretation, which may subject to us to litigation, including class action lawsuits, the outcome of which may be difficult to assess or quantify due to the potential ambiguity inherent in these regulatory schemes and/or the nascency of our technologies and services. Plaintiffs in these types of litigation may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Any such claims or litigation may be time-consuming and costly, divert management resources, require us to change our products and services, or have other adverse effects on our business. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could require us to pay significant monetary damages. In addition, costly and time consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce our existing contracts and, even if successful, could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, prolonged litigation against any airline partner, customer or supplier could have the effect of negatively impacting our reputation and goodwill with existing and potential airline partners, customers and suppliers. 43 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We and our subsidiaries may incur additional debt in the future, which could substantially reduce our profitability, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities and reduce the value of your investment. As of December 31, 2013, we had $240.8 million of debt outstanding under the amended senior secured credit facility (“Amended Senior Term Facility”). Subject to certain limitations set forth in the Amended Senior Term Facility, we or our subsidiaries may incur additional debt in the future, which could increase the risks described below and lead to other risks. The amount of our debt or such other obligations could have important consequences for holders of our common stock, including, but not limited to: • our ability to satisfy obligations to lenders may be impaired, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of our indebtedness; • our ability to obtain additional financing for refinancing of existing indebtedness, working capital, capital expenditures, including costs associated with our international expansion, product and service development, acquisitions, general corporate purposes and other purposes may be impaired; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be used to repay the principal and interest on our debt; • we may be increasingly vulnerable to economic downturns and increases in interest rates; • our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and the markets in which we operate may be limited; and • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry. Our Amended Senior Term Facility contains financial and operating covenants and restrictions that limit our operations and could lead to adverse consequences if we fail to comply with them. The Amended Senior Term Facility contains certain financial and operating covenants and other restrictions relating to, among other things, limitations on indebtedness (including guarantees of additional indebtedness) and liens, mergers, consolidations and dissolutions, sales of assets, investments and acquisitions, dividends and other restricted payments, repurchase of shares of capital stock and options to purchase shares of capital stock and certain transactions with affiliates. Additionally, depending on the leverage ratio of our BA segment, up to 50% of that segment’s annual excess cash flow may be required to be used to repay principal under the Amended Senior Term Facility and, as a result, will not be available for investment in our business, including required expenditures and investments in our CA-NA or CA-ROW segments. Failure to comply with these financial and operating covenants could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations, the incurrence of additional indebtedness or changes in general economic conditions, which may be beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the Amended Senior Term Facility that would permit the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we are unable to repay such amounts, lenders having secured obligations could proceed against the collateral securing these obligations. The collateral includes the capital stock of our domestic subsidiaries, 65% of the capital stock of our foreign subsidiaries and substantially all of our and our subsidiaries’ other tangible and intangible assets, subject in each case to certain exceptions. This could have serious consequences on our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or otherwise insolvent. In addition, these covenants may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that we believe would otherwise be in the best interests of our business and stockholders. 44 Table of Contents See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Amended Senior Term Facility” for additional information about the financial and operating covenants set forth in the Amended Senior Term Facility and also the Amended Senior Term Facility generally. Increases in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. Our debt outstanding under the Amended Senior Term Facility bears interest at variable rates. As a result, increases in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. We may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all. We have historically relied primarily on private placements of our equity securities to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion and, most recently, we obtained debt financing and through our recent IPO, equity financing, to fund a portion of our operations. The market conditions and the macroeconomic conditions that affect the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our ability to secure financing on acceptable terms, if at all. We may be unable to secure additional financing on favorable terms or at all or our operating cash flow may be insufficient to satisfy our financial obligations under the indebtedness outstanding from time to time. The terms of additional financing may limit our financial and operating flexibility. Our ability to satisfy our financial obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, the availability of credit generally, economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Furthermore, if financing is not available when needed, or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile and the value of your investment could decline. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile since our initial public offering (IPO), which occurred on June 21, 2013 and in which shares of common stock were sold at a price of $17.00 per share. From the IPO date through February 28, 2014, the price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $9.71 per share to a high of $35.77 per share. In addition to the factors discussed in this Annual Report, the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. They include: • airline industry or general market conditions; • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; • changes in technology or customer usage of Wi-Fi and internet broadband services; • any inability to timely and efficiently roll out our technology roadmap; • any inability to sufficiently execute our international growth strategy; 45 Table of Contents • any inability to obtain satellite service on commercially reasonable terms or at all, currently and in the future, including Ka-band satellite service; • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in or failure to meet publicly disclosed expectations as to our future financial performance; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or lack of research and reports by industry analysts; • action by institutional stockholders or other large stockholders, including future sales; • speculation in the press or investment community; • investor perception of us and our industry; • changes in market valuations or earnings of similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic partnerships; • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights, including increases or decreases in litigation expenses associated with intellectual property lawsuits we may initiate, or in which we may be named as defendants; • failure to complete significant sales; • any future sales of our common stock or other securities; • renewal of our FCC license; and • additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many such companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, class action litigation has often been instituted against such company. Any litigation of this type brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market following this offering, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities convertible into common stock in connection with a financing, acquisition, litigation, settlement or employee arrangement or otherwise. Any of these issuances could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If securities or industry analysts covering Gogo downgrade our 46 Table of Contents stock or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Our significant stockholder could exert influence over our company, and if the ownership of our common stock continues to be concentrated, or becomes more concentrated in the future, it could prevent our other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of December 31, 2013, Oakleigh Thorne and the entities affiliated with Mr. Thorne (“Thorne Entities”) beneficially own approximately 29% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, the Thorne Entities will be able to exercise influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval for the foreseeable future, including approval of significant corporate transactions, which may reduce the market price of our common stock. The interests of the Thorne Entities may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Our corporate governance guidelines address potential conflicts between a director’s interests and our interests, and our code of business conduct, among other things, requires our employees and directors to avoid actions or relationships that might conflict or appear to conflict with their job responsibilities or the interests of Gogo Inc. and to disclose their outside activities, financial interests or relationships that may present a possible conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict to management or corporate counsel. These corporate governance guidelines and code of business ethics do not, by themselves, prohibit transactions with the Thorne Entities. Fulfilling our obligations incident to being a public company, including with respect to the requirements of and related rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, is expensive and time-consuming, and any delays or difficulties in satisfying these obligations could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and our stock price. As a public company, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as Nasdaq rules, require us to implement various corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules. Compliance with these public company obligations requires us to devote significant time and resources and places significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial accounting and information systems. We have hired additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company reporting experience and technical accounting knowledge. Other expenses associated with being a public company include increased auditing, accounting and legal fees and expenses, investor relations expenses, increased directors’ fees and director and officer liability insurance costs, registrar and transfer agent fees and listing fees, as well as other expenses. In particular, beginning with the year ending December 31, 2014, we will be required under the Sarbanes Oxley Act to document and test the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, we are required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), to maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain effective controls or implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, Nasdaq, or other regulatory authorities. 47 Table of Contents We are an “emerging growth company,” and any decision on our part to comply with certain reduced disclosure and other requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act enacted in April 2012, and, for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting and other requirements applicable to other public companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (a) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the IPO; (b) the last day of our fiscal year in which we have annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more; (c) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt; and (d) the date on which we are deemed to be a “large accelerated filer,” which will occur at such time as we (1) have an aggregate worldwide market value of common equity securities held by non-affiliates of $700 million or more as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, (2) have been required to file annual, quarterly and current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for a period of at least 12 calendar months, and (3) have filed at least one annual report pursuant to the Securities Act of 1934. As a result, we may qualify as an emerging growth company until as late as December 31, 2018. Under Section 102(b) of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. Pursuant to Section 107(b) of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, we have irrevocably elected to “opt out” of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. We could be the subject of securities class action litigation due to future stock price volatility, which could divert management’s attention and adversely affect our results of operations. The stock market in general, and market prices for the securities of technology companies like ours in particular, have from time to time experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of the underlying companies. A certain degree of stock price volatility can be attributed to being a newly public company. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In several recent situations in which the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a similar lawsuit against us, the defense and disposition of the lawsuit could be costly and divert the time and attention of our management and harm our operating results. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law, and certain provisions in our existing and any future credit facility could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include a number of provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: • Authorization of the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to thwart a takeover attempt; 48 Table of Contents • Establishment of a classified Board of Directors, as a result of which our board will be divided into three classes, with each class serving for staggered three-year terms, which prevents stockholders from electing an entirely new Board of Directors at an annual meeting; • A requirement that directors only be removed from office for cause and only upon a supermajority stockholder vote; • A provision that vacancies on the Board of Directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • A limitation on who may call special meetings of stockholders; • A prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • A requirement of supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if the provisions are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. In addition, our current credit facility with Alaska Airlines has, and other credit facilities we may enter into in the future may have, covenants that restrict our rights to engage in certain change of control transactions. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance the operation and growth of our business, and we do not expect to declare and pay any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. In addition, the operations of Gogo Inc. are conducted almost entirely through its subsidiaries. Accordingly, to the extent that we determine to pay dividends on our common stock, none of our subsidiaries will be obligated to make funds available to us for the payment of dividends. Furthermore, Delaware law may impose requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock. Our corporate charter and bylaws include provisions limiting ownership by non-U.S. citizens, including the power of our board of directors to redeem shares of our common stock from non-U.S. citizens. The Communications Act and FCC regulations impose restrictions on foreign ownership of FCC licensees, as described in the above risk factor, “If we fail to comply with the Communications Act and FCC regulations limiting ownership and voting of our capital stock by non-U.S. persons we could lose our FCC license.” Our corporate charter and bylaws include provisions that permit our board of directors to take certain actions in order to comply with FCC regulations regarding foreign ownership, including but not limited to, a right to redeem shares of common stock from non-U.S. citizens at prices at or below fair market value. Non-U.S. citizens should consider carefully the redemption provisions in our certificate of incorporation prior to investing in our common stock. These restrictions may also decrease the liquidity and value of our stock by reducing the pool of potential investors in our company and making the acquisition of control of us by third parties more difficult. In addition, 49 Table of Contents these restrictions could adversely affect our ability to attract equity financing or consummate an acquisition of a foreign entity using shares of our capital stock. Regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and may make our supply chain more complex. We are subject to requirements under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, which will require us to diligence, disclose and report whether or not our products contain certain minerals and metals, known as “conflict minerals.” The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of certain of the materials used in the manufacture of components in our products and equipment. In addition, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to conducting diligence procedures to determine the sources of conflict minerals that may be used or necessary to the production of our products and, if applicable, potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 