Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Changes in economic conditions, particularly a further economic slowdown in the Western and Piedmont regions of North Carolina, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industries located in our market areas and financial, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. In 2008, the housing and real estate sectors experienced an economic slowdown that has continued. Further deterioration in economic conditions, particularly within our primary market areas within Western North Carolina and the Piedmont region, could result in the following consequences, among others, any of which could materially hurt our business: · loan delinquencies may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; · collateral for our loans may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power and reducing the value of collateral securing our loans; and · the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us. Deterioration in the housing real estate market has resulted in and may continue to result in increased loan-to-value ratios on a significant portion of our one- to four-family loans and home equity lines of credit, which exposes us to greater risk of loss. Economic deterioration throughout 2008 and weakness in the economy since then has been accompanied by continued stress in the housing markets, including declines in home prices. These declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, compounded with weakness in the economy, have resulted in significant increases in our non-performing assets, provision for loan losses and net charge-offs. See “--Our provision for loan losses and net loan charge-offs have increased significantly in recent years and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations.” According to the Department of Labor, the average unemployment rate in the Asheville metropolitan area in 2011 was 8.1%, a decrease from 8.6% and 8.8% in 2010 and 2009, respectively, and an increase from 4.9% for 2008. There have been indications over the past year that the U.S. job market, including the job market in our market areas, is improving. Based on information from the North Carolina Association of Realtors, the average home price in the Asheville metropolitan area in 2011 was $216,000, an 8% decrease from 2010 and a 22% decrease from 2008. The average home price in the Triad metropolitan area (which includes Davidson and Rockingham counties) in 2011 was $146,000, a 5% decrease from 2010 and a 15% decrease from 2008. While there were continued indications throughout the past year that the U.S. economy is stabilizing and may be improving, if housing market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the loss severities of loans in default, and the net realizable value of real estate owned. Many of our one- to four-family loans and home equity lines of credit are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because of these declines in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values 47 than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, they may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. Further, the majority of our home equity lines of credit consist of second mortgage loans. For those home equity lines secured by a second mortgage, it is unlikely that we will be successful in recovering all or a portion of our loan proceeds in the event of default unless we are prepared to repay the first mortgage loan and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. For these reasons, we may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses. Our non-owner-occupied real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk. At June 30, 2012, $101.2 million, or 16.3% of our one-to four-family loans and 8.2% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of loans secured by non-owner-occupied residential properties. Loans secured by non-owner-occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner-occupied properties because repayment of such loans depend primarily on the tenant’s continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner’s ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. In addition, the physical condition of non-owner-occupied properties is often below that of owner-occupied properties due to lax property maintenance standards, which has a negative impact on the value of the collateral properties. Furthermore, some of our non-owner-occupied residential loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with HomeTrust Bank which may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner-occupied residential mortgage loan. Our construction and development loans and construction and land/lot loans have a higher risk of loss than residential or commercial real estate loans. At June 30, 2012, construction and land/lot loans in our retail consumer loan portfolio was $53.6 million or 4.4% of our total loan portfolio. At that date, construction and development loans in our commercial loan portfolio totaled $42.4 million or 3.4% of our total loan portfolio. Construction and development lending includes the inherent difficulty in estimating both a property’s value at completion of the project and the estimated cost (including interest) of the project. If the estimate of construction cost proves to be inaccurate, we may advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the project. If the estimate of value upon completion proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted at, or prior to, the maturity of the loan with a project the value of which is insufficient to assure full repayment. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are for homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk to us than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. Loans on land under development or held for future construction as well as lot loans made to individuals for the future construction of a residence also pose additional risk because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the collateral. These risks can be significantly impacted by supply and demand conditions. As a result, this type of lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to independently repay principal and interest. While our origination of construction and development loans has decreased significantly in the last three years, we continue to have significant levels of construction and development loan balances. Most of our construction loans are for the construction of single family residences. Reflecting the current slowdown in the residential market, the secondary market for construction and development loans is depressed, so we have less opportunity to mitigate our credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. If we foreclose on a construction and development loan, our holding period for the collateral typically may be longer than we have historically experienced because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. The decline in the number of potential purchasers has contributed to the decline in the value of these loans. Accordingly, charge-offs on construction and development loans have recently been and may continue to be larger than those incurred by other segments of our loan portfolio. At June 30, 2012, $5.8 million of our construction and development loans were for speculative construction loans. Also at June 30, 2012, $3.4 million or 6.4%, and $12.6 million, or 29.7%, of our total construction and land/lot loans and construction and development loans, respectively, were non-performing. 48 Our commercial real estate loans involve higher principal amounts than other loans and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. At June 30, 2012, commercial real estate loans were $238.6 million, or 19.4% of our total loan portfolio. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated from the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. Commercial real estate loans may expose us to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. Repayment of our municipal leases is dependent on the fire department receiving tax revenues from the county/municipality. At June 30, 2012, municipal leases were $115.5 million or 9.4% of our total loan portfolio. We offer ground and equipment lease financing to fire departments located throughout North Carolina and, to a lesser extent, South Carolina. Repayment of our municipal leases is often dependent on the tax revenues collected by the county/municipality on behalf of the fire department. Although a municipal lease does not constitute a general obligation of the county/municipality for which the county/municipality's taxing power is pledged, a municipal lease is ordinarily backed by the county/municipality's covenant to budget for, appropriate and pay the tax revenues to the fire department. However, certain municipal leases contain "non-appropriation" clauses which provide that the municipality has no obligation to make lease or installment purchase payments in future years unless money is appropriated for that purpose on a yearly basis. In the case of a "non-appropriation" lease, our ability to recover under the lease in the event of non-appropriation or default will be limited solely to the repossession of the leased property, without recourse to the general credit of the lessee, and disposition or releasing of the property might prove difficult. At June 30, 2012, $4.0 million of our municipal leases contained a non-appropriation clause. Our provision for loan losses and net loan charge-offs have increased significantly in recent years and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the year ended June 30, 2012, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $15.6 million, as compared to $42.8 million and $38.6 million for the years ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $30.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2012 compared to net loan charge-offs of $34.4 million and $21.9 million, for the years ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 respectively. We are still experiencing elevated levels of loan delinquencies and credit losses. Slower sales, excess inventory and declining prices in the housing market have been the primary causes of the increase in delinquencies and foreclosures in our loan portfolio, particularly for construction and development loans which, including related real estate owned and other foreclosed assets (“REO”), represented $17.4 million or 21.6% of our non-performing assets at June 30, 2012. At June 30, 2012, our total non-performing assets had increased to $80.3 million compared to $62.3 million at June 30, 2011, primarily as a result of our reclassifying $25.7 million of impaired loans still accruing interest to non-accruing loans during the year ended June 30, 2012, pursuant to regulatory guidance. If current weak conditions in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience further delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms, or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; 49 · the duration of the loan; · the character and creditworthiness of a particular borrower; and · changes in economic and industry conditions. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which we believe is an appropriate reserve to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The allowance is funded by provisions for loan losses charged to expense. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: · our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience, certain macroeconomic factors, and management’s expectations of future events; · our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of non-performing loans and their underlying collateral; and · an unallocated reserve to provide for other credit losses inherent in our portfolio that may not have been contemplated in the other loss factors. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses we will need additional provisions to replenish the allowance for loan losses. Any additional provisions will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our nonperforming assets increase, our earnings will be adversely affected. At June 30, 2012, June 30, 2011 and June 30, 2010, our nonperforming assets (which consist of non-accruing loans and REO) were $80.3 million, $62.3 million and $63.6 million, respectively, or 4.7%, 3.8% and 3.9% of total assets, respectively. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways: · we record interest income only on a cash basis for nonaccrual loans and any nonperforming investment securities; and do not record interest income for REO; · we must provide for probable loan losses through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses; · non-interest expense increases when we write down the value of properties in our REO portfolio to reflect changing market values or recognize other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) on nonperforming investment securities; · there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets, as well as carrying costs, such as taxes, insurance, and maintenance fees related to our REO; and · the resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity. If additional borrowers become delinquent and do not pay their loans and we are unable to successfully manage our nonperforming assets, our losses and troubled assets could increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have also classified $20.6 million in loans as performing troubled debt restructurings at June 30, 2012. If our REO is not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as REO and at certain other times during the asset’s holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of 50 the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, or if property values decline, the fair value of our REO may not be sufficient to recover our carrying value in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Significant charge-offs to our REO could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our REO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Impairment of our investment securities or deferred tax assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. In assessing the impairment of investment securities, we consider the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuers, whether the decline in market value was affected by macroeconomic conditions and whether we have the intent to sell the security or will be required to sell the security before its anticipated recovery. There can be no assurance that future declines in market value of our investment securities will not result in OTTI of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent it is more likely than not they will be realized. Should our management determine it is not more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, a valuation allowance with a charge to earnings would be reflected in the period. At June 30, 2012, our net deferred tax asset was $48.9 million, all of which was disallowed for regulatory capital purposes. Based on the levels of taxable income in prior years, our current year profitability, and management’s expectation of profitability in future years, management has determined that no additional valuation allowance was required at June 30, 2012. If we are required in the future to take an additional valuation allowance with respect to our deferred tax asset, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected. Decreased volumes and lower gains on sales of mortgage loans sold could adversely impact our non-interest income. We originate and sell one- to four-family mortgage loans. Our mortgage banking income is a significant portion of our non-interest income. We generate gains on the sale of one- to four-family mortgage loans pursuant to programs currently offered by investors other than governmental sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. These investors account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Any future changes in their programs, our eligibility to participate in such programs, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of such investors could, in turn, materially adversely affect our results of operations. Further, in a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors. This would result in a decrease in mortgage banking revenues and a corresponding decrease in non-interest income. We are subject to interest rate risk. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but these changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and (iii) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. As a result of the relatively low interest rate environment, an increasing percentage of our deposits have been comprised of short-term certificates of deposit and other deposits yielding no or a relatively low rate of interest. At June 30, 2012, we had $445.1 million in certificates of deposit that mature within one year and $662.6 million in non-interest bearing checking, savings and money market accounts. We would incur a higher cost of funds to retain these deposits in a rising interest rate environment. 51 Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. In addition, a substantial amount of our residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit have adjustable interest rates. As a result, these loans may experience a higher rate of default in a rising interest rate environment. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet. We regularly review interest rate risk by forecasting the impact of alternative interest rate environments on net interest income and our present value equity (“PVE”), which is defined as the net present value of our existing assets and liabilities. At June 30, 2012 our interest rate simulation model indicated that PVE would decline by $29.0 million, $53.3 million and $73.4 million, or 12%, 22% and 30% if there were instantaneous increases in interest rates of 100 basis points, 200 basis points and 300 basis points, respectively. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans or other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the North Carolina markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Deposit flows, calls of investment securities and wholesale borrowings, and the prepayment of loans and mortgage-related securities are also strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates, whether actual or perceived, and competition for deposits and loans in the markets we serve. Furthermore, changes to the FHLB’s underwriting guidelines for wholesale borrowings or lending policies may limit or restrict our ability to borrow, and could therefore have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity. In addition, the need to replace funds in the event of large-scale withdrawals of brokered deposits could require us to pay significantly higher interest rates on retail deposits or other wholesale funding sources, which would have an adverse impact on our net interest income and net income. A decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, or to fulfill such obligations as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands. Our strategy of pursuing acquisitions exposes us to financial, execution and operational risks that could adversely affect us. We are pursuing a strategy of supplementing organic growth by acquiring other financial institutions or their businesses that we believe will help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings. There are risks associated with this strategy, however, including the following: · We may be exposed to potential asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks, businesses, assets and liabilities we acquire. If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially negatively affected; · Prices at which future acquisitions can be made may not be acceptable to us; · Our growth initiatives may require us to recruit experienced personnel to assist in such initiatives. The failure to identify and retain such personnel would place significant limitations on our ability to execute our growth strategy; · Our strategic efforts may divert resources or management’s attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny; · The acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity into our company to make the transaction economically successful. This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of 52 · particular acquisitions within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful; To finance a future acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders; · We have completed two mergers during the past three fiscal years that enhanced our rate of growth. We may not be able to continue to sustain our past rate of growth or to grow at all in the future; and · We expect our net income will increase following our acquisitions, however, we also expect our general and administrative expenses and consequently our efficiency rates will also increase. Ultimately, we would expect our efficiency ratio to improve; however, if we are not successful in our integration process, this may not occur, and our acquisitions or branching activities may not be accretive to earnings in the short or long-term. We may engage in FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to our business. We may have opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Although these FDIC-assisted transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution, we are (and would be in future transactions) subject to many of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these acquisitions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time and access to information normally associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated acquisition, we may face additional risks in FDIC-assisted transactions, including additional strain on management resources, management of problem loans, problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems and impact to our capital resources requiring us to raise additional capital. We cannot give assurance that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with a FDIC-assisted transaction. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market areas. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have been competitive by focusing on our business lines in our market areas and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, brokerage houses, mutual funds, insurance companies and specialized finance companies. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources and lending limits, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and newer competitors may also be more aggressive in terms of pricing loan and deposit products than we are in order to obtain a share of the market. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, federally insured state-chartered banks and national banks and federal savings banks. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors including the following: · the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top-quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; · the ability to expand our market position; · the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; · the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; · customer satisfaction with our level of service; and · industry and general economic trends. 53 Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. HomeTrust Bank is currently subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the OCC and as a bank holding company, HomeTrust Bancshares is subject to examination, supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on an institution’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and will affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on us. For example, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, and non-interest-bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments and authorizes the SEC to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidate using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Financial institutions such as HomeTrust Bank with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. In June 2012, the Federal Reserve and the OCC issued proposed rules that would substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital requirements applicable to both HomeTrust Bank and HomeTrust Bancshares. The proposed rules implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed rules include new higher minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which would be phased in during 2013 and 2014, and would limit the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The proposed new minimum capital level requirements under the proposals would be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6%; (iii) a total capital ratio of 8%; and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The proposed rules would also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios. While the proposed Basel III changes and other 54 regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to us or what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. The application of more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, over time require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. Any additional changes in our regulation and oversight, in the form of new laws, rules and regulations, could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will negatively impact our earnings. The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% of total insured deposits as the minimum reserve ratio. The FDIC has adopted a plan under which it will meet this ratio by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio to 1.35% from the former minimum of 1.15%. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset. In addition to the statutory minimum ratio, the FDIC must set a designated reserve ratio or DRR, which may exceed the statutory minimum. The FDIC has set 2.0% as the DRR. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has adopted final regulations under which insurance premiums are based on an institution's total assets minus its tangible equity instead of its deposits. While our FDIC insurance premiums initially may be reduced by these regulations, it is possible that our future insurance premiums will increase under the final regulations. We are subject to potentially significant litigation and our legal related costs might increase. We are currently involved in several litigation matters in the ordinary course of business. One matter, originally filed in March, 2012, involves claims of $12.5 million in compensatory damages and a request for additional punitive treble damages resulting from the purported failure of HomeTrust Bank and a third party brokerage firm to discover a Ponzi scheme conducted by a customer holding accounts at each entity. HomeTrust Bank believes that the lawsuit is without merit and intends to defend itself vigorously. Management, after review with its legal counsel, is of the opinion that this litigation should not have a material effect on HomeTrust Bank’s financial position or results of operations, although new developments could result in management modifying its assessment. There can be no assurance that we will successfully defend or resolve this litigation matter. We are also subject to a variety of other legal matters that have arisen in the ordinary course of our business. In the current economic environment, our involvement in litigation has increased significantly, primarily as a result of defaulted borrowers asserting claims to defeat or delay foreclosure proceedings. There can be no assurance that our loan workout and other activities will not expose us to additional legal actions, including lender liability or environmental claims. Therefore, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the expenses of legal proceedings will adversely affect our results of operations until they are resolved. Our business may be adversely affected by an increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes. Our loans to businesses and individuals and our deposit relationships and related transactions are subject to exposure to the risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes. Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased. We have also experienced an increase in losses due to apparent fraud and other financial crimes. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent such losses, there can be no assurance that such losses will not occur. 55 We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including our internet banking services and data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these services or systems or breaches in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. New or changes in existing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit our shareholders. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against us could require us to devote significant time and resources to defending our business and may lead to penalties that materially affect us. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. We may have losses and significant variations in our results. Net income was $4.5 million for the year ended June 30, 2012 as compared to a net loss of $14.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2011 and net income of $7.0 million for the year ended June 30, 2010. Without gains from business combinations, our loss in fiscal 2011 would have been greater and we would have had a loss in fiscal 2010. These losses primarily resulted from our high level of nonperforming assets and the resultant increased provision for loan losses and REO related expenses and write-downs. In addition, several other factors affecting our business can cause significant variations in our results of operations. In particular, variations in the volume of our loan originations and sales, the differences between our cost of funds and the average interest rate earned on investments, special FDIC insurance charges, significant changes in real estate valuations and the fair valuation of investment securities portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. As of June 30, 2012 we had approximately $43.7 million of federal operating losses (“NOLs”). Our ability to use our NOLs and other pre-ownership change losses (collectively, “Pre-Change Losses”) to offset future taxable income will be limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time (the “Code”). In general, an ownership change occurs if, among other things, the shareholders (or specified groups of shareholders) who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of a corporation’s common stock or are otherwise treated as 5% shareholders under Section 382 and U.S. Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder increase their aggregate percentage ownership of that corporation’s stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by these shareholders over a rolling three-year period. If we experience an ownership change our Pre-Change Losses will be subject to an annual limitation on their use, which is generally equal to the fair market value of our outstanding stock immediately before the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate, which was 3.26% for ownership changes occurring in June 2012. Depending on the size of the annual limitation (which is in part a function of our market capitalization at the time of the ownership change) and the remaining carryforward period for our Pre-Change Losses (U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for a period of 20 years), we could 56 realize a permanent loss of some or all of our Pre-Change Losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In September 2012, we adopted a shareholder rights plan (the “Rights Plan”), which provides an economic disincentive for any person or group to become an owner, for relevant tax purposes, of 4.99% or more of our stock. While adoption of the Rights Plan should reduce the likelihood that future transactions in our stock will result in an ownership change under Section 382, there can be no assurance that the Rights Plan will be effective to deter a shareholder from increasing its ownership interests beyond the limits set by the Rights Plan or that an ownership change will not occur in the future. We are an emerging growth company within the meaning of the Securities Act, and if we decide to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our common stock could be less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, (the “Securities Act”), as modified by the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 ( the “JOBS Act”). We are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, reduced disclosure about our executive compensation and omission of compensation discussion and analysis, and an exemption from the requirement of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation. In addition, we will not be subject to certain requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes Oxley Act”), including the additional level of review of our internal control over financial reporting as may occur when outside auditors attest as to our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, our stockholders may not have access to certain information they may deem important. Further, we are eligible to delay adoption of new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies and we intend to take advantage of the benefits of this extended transition period. Accordingly, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with such new or revised accounting standards. We could remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, or until the earliest of (a) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues exceed $1 billion, (b) the date that we become a “large accelerated filer” as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, which would occur if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, or (c) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the preceding three-year period. If we take advantage of any of these exemptions, we do not know if some investors will find our common stock less attractive as a result. The result may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. 57 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 