D. Risk Factors An investment in our Class A ordinary shares involve a high degree of risk. Our investors should consider carefully the risks described below, together with financial and other information contained in this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our Class A ordinary shares would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. See "Preliminary Notes—Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Risks related to our business and our industry We generate a significant portion of our sales of services, and anticipate deriving a material portion of our sales of products, from clients primarily located in the U.S. and Europe. Worsening economic conditions or factors that negatively affect the economic health of the U.S. or Europe could reduce our sales of services and thus adversely affect our results of operations. The recent crisis in the financial and credit markets in the U.S. and Europe led to a global economic slowdown, with the economies of those regions showing significant signs of weakness. The IT industry is particularly sensitive to the economic environment, and tends to decline during general economic downturns. We derive a significant portion of our sales of services from clients in the U.S. and Europe. If the U.S. or European economies further weaken or slow, pricing for our services may be depressed and our clients may reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly which may in turn lower the demand for our services. Furthermore, clients in affected regions could terminate their contracts with us, generally by giving between 30 days and six months' notice, or choose not to renew their contracts with us. Such actions by our clients would negatively affect our sales of services and profitability. The current financial crisis in Europe has given rise to concerns that certain European countries may default on their sovereign debt. The resulting economic uncertainty could adversely impact our operating results unless and until economic conditions in Europe improve and the prospects of sovereign debt defaults in Europe decline. The financial crisis in Europe may also have ripple effects in the U.S. 9 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and other conditions affecting the markets in which we operate, we may be unable to effectively plan for or respond to those changes, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Rapid growth may strain our limited resources, and a failure to manage this growth could have a material adverse effect on the quality of our services and client support. We have recently experienced rapid growth and significantly expanded our business. Our sales of services grew from $198.4 million in the year ended March 31, 2011 to $314.6 million in the year ended March 31, 2013. For the year ended March 31, 2014, our sales of services were $398.3 million. As of March 31, 2014, we had 7,519 personnel, as compared to 5,846 personnel as of March 31, 2013. Our rapid growth has placed, and we expect it to continue to place, significant demands on our management and our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. In addition, we recently announced a multi-year Global Upgrade Program, which among other things, is expected to result in our expansion in Central Europe and potentially into new markets. Continued expansion increases the challenges we face in offering our services in the following areas: • recruiting and retaining sufficiently skilled IT professionals, as well as marketing and management personnel; • training and supervision of our personnel to maintain our high quality standards; • borrowing adequate short-term funds to finance rapid growth; • developing financial and management controls; and • preserving our culture and values and our entrepreneurial environment. If we are unable to manage our rapid growth efficiently, or if we are unable to implement our Global Upgrade Program successfully or timely, it could have a material adverse effect on the quality of our services and client support, and therefore on our productivity and results of operations. We generate a significant portion of our sales of services, and anticipate deriving a large portion of our sales of products, from a limited number of clients and any significant loss of business from these clients or failure by such clients to pay for our services could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent on our key clients for a significant portion of our sales of services. Our largest clients, Deutsche Bank and UBS, accounted, in the aggregate, for 47.3%, 47.0% and 52.0% of our sales of services in the years ended March 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. In the aggregate, our ten largest clients accounted for 82.6%, 81.2% and 81.7% of our sales of services in the years ended March 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. Our ability to maintain close relationships with these and other major clients is essential to the growth and profitability of our business. We have entered into framework agreements with each of our key clients, including Deutsche Bank, UBS and Boeing, which govern substantially all of our arrangements for the provision of services to such clients. These agreements, however, do not grant us any exclusivity and do not contain any minimum service conditions. Further, though our framework agreements with Deutsche Bank, UBS and Boeing provide for compensation for any services already rendered by us in the case of early termination, they may be terminated by Deutsche Bank, UBS and Boeing, respectively, generally upon prior written notice of between one and six months without any penalty. In addition, Deutsche Bank may terminate any or all of the individual service contracts governed by the master framework agreement if the master framework agreement is terminated for cause or for any other reason. Accordingly, we cannot provide any assurance that we will succeed in maintaining or growing our business with sales of services from our largest clients. 10 Table of Contents Our reliance on any individual client may give that client a certain degree of pricing leverage against us as we negotiate contracts and terms of service. In addition, a number of other factors outside of our control could cause the loss of or reduction in business or sales of services from any client, and these factors are not predictable. These factors may include, among others, a client's corporate restructuring or insolvency, pricing pressure or changes to its outsourcing strategy. A client may decide to reduce spending on technology services or sourcing from us, or shift such spending to one of our competitors, due to a challenging economic environment or other internal or external factors relating to its business. For example, in 2008, one of our ten largest clients at the time, Nortel, filed for bankruptcy. As a result of this action, not only were we unable to continue our relationship with Nortel, but we were unable to collect unpaid receivables for a portion of the work we had done for this client. Furthermore, as we increase the amount of services we offer to our biggest clients and as our services account for a larger portion of our clients' budgets on IT services, we run the risk of approaching our clients' maximum budget allowance for spending on IT services. If our clients are unable or unwilling to devote more of their IT budget to paying for our services, or if our clients are unable or unwilling to devote more of their overall budget to IT services, we risk being unable to increase our sales of services from each of these clients. Likewise, as we expand our product offerings to clients, we may run the risk of approaching our clients' maximum budget allowance for software spending. The loss of any of our major clients, or a significant decrease in the volume of work they outsource to us or the price at which we sell our services to them, could materially adversely affect our sales of services and thus our results of operations. We derive a large portion of our sales of services, and expect that we will derive a large portion of our sales of products, from clients who operate in a limited number of industries. We derive a large portion of our sales of services from clients who operate in a limited number of industries. In the year ended March 31, 2014, we derived 59.9%, 11.3% and 9.3% of our sales of services from clients operating in the financial services, automotive and transport, and travel and aviation industries, respectively. Furthermore, we anticipate our product sales will be largely to clients in the same industries. Our business and growth depend to a large extent on continued demand for our services from clients and potential clients in these industries. Demand for our services and products in general, as well as in any industry specifically, could be affected by multiple factors outside of our control, including a decrease in growth or growth prospects of the industry, a slowdown or reversal of the trend to outsource technological applications and software development services generally, or consolidation within the industry. Furthermore, clients in affected regions could terminate their contracts with us, generally by giving between 30 days and six months' notice, or choose not to renew their contracts with us. In addition, serving a major client within a particular industry may limit our ability to enter into engagements with competitors of that client, and certain of our client contracts prohibit certain of our employees from working on engagements with our clients' competitors. Many of these industries are also experiencing vendor consolidation, which may limit our ability to gain new clients or keep existing clients as the procurement department of potential and existing clients limit the number of vendors from which they are willing to buy services. Any significant decrease in demand for our services by clients in these industries, or other industries from which we derive significant sales of services in the future, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In particular, an economic slowdown or financial crisis could result in decreased IT spending by institutions in the financial services industry. Many such institutions may reduce their IT spending, delay planned projects or both. As a result, it may make it more difficult to obtain new clients, sell our services and products or maintain the current level of demand from our existing clients in this industry. 11 Table of Contents Because the financial services industry is our largest vertical, such a slowdown could materially affect our revenues and thus our results of operations. In addition, the large sovereign debts and/or fiscal deficits of a number of European countries and the U.S. have raised concerns regarding the financial condition of financial institutions, insurers and other corporations: • located in these countries; • that have direct or indirect exposure to these countries; and/or • whose banks, counterparties, custodians, clients, service providers, sources of funding and/or suppliers have direct or indirect exposure to these countries. The default, or a significant decline in the credit rating, of one or more sovereigns or financial institutions could cause severe stress in the financial system generally and could adversely affect the businesses and economic condition and prospects of our clients (some of the largest of which are European banks), counterparties, suppliers or creditors, directly or indirectly, in ways difficult to predict. The impact of these conditions could be detrimental to us and could materially adversely affect our business, operations and profitability. We operate in a highly competitive environment and may not be able to compete successfully. The IT industry in general, and the software development market in particular, is highly competitive, and we expect competition not only to persist but also to intensify. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our markets are the quality of the services offered, breadth and depth of service offerings, reputation and track record, industry expertise, effective personnel recruiting, training and retention, marketing and sales skills, scalability of infrastructure, and ability to address clients' timing requirements and price. We face competition from offshore technology service providers in outsourcing destinations with low wage costs such as India, as well as competition from large global consulting and outsourcing firms and in-house IT departments of large corporations. Once we begin introducing new products for commercial resale and licensing, we will face competition from software product companies, such as QlikView and Red Hat. There is no assurance that we will not face additional competition from new market entrants. We do not enter into exclusive services arrangements with any of our clients, and as a result, our sales of services could suffer to the extent that clients could obtain services from other competing application and software engineering outsourcing services. Clients may prefer application and software engineering outsourcing services that have more locations or that are based in countries that are more cost-competitive or more politically and economically stable than the countries in which we operate. Some of our current and potential competitors may benefit from substantially greater financial, marketing, or technical resources. Our current and potential competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new technologies or processes and changes in client demands; may be able to devote greater resources towards the development, promotion and sale of their services than we can; and may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that increase their ability to address client needs. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to retain our clients while competing against such competitors. Increased competition, our inability to compete successfully, pricing pressures and resulting loss of clients could materially adversely affect our business. 12 Table of Contents Our future revenue growth depends in part on our ability to successfully introduce new products. The software industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. As we continue to grow our business, we plan to introduce new products for resale and licensing. In order for our products to be commercially viable, either through direct sales or through licensing agreements, they must meet changing client needs and offer our clients unique benefits. We have limited experience to date in developing products for resale and licensing, and have not generated significant revenues from the sale of products. We may not be able to successfully introduce our products to the market. If we are not able to develop and clearly demonstrate the value of our products to our clients, the growth of our revenues may be harmed. Even if we are able to attract clients for our product offerings, the amount of revenue that we derive from our product sales may be smaller than what we forecast. As new products are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the amount of usage each of our products will receive before it becomes obsolete. Therefore, we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, upgrade and maintenance of such product offerings. If we are slow to develop products, of if our competitors are able to achieve those results more quickly than we, we will fail to capture a significant share of the software product market. If we misjudge client needs in the future, our new product offerings may not succeed and our revenues may be harmed. Because these new initiatives are inherently risky, they may not be successful and may harm our financial condition and operating results. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to security risks that could disrupt our services and cause us to incur losses or liabilities that could adversely affect our business. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, worms, malicious applications and other security problems caused by unauthorized access to, or improper use of, systems by third parties or employees. A hacker who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, including personally identifiable information, or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Although we intend to continue to implement security measures, computer attacks or disruptions may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems. Actual or perceived concerns that our systems may be vulnerable to such attacks or disruptions may deter our clients from using our solutions or services. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Data networks are also vulnerable to attacks, unauthorized access and disruptions. For example, in a number of public networks, hackers have bypassed firewalls and misappropriated confidential information, including personally identifiable information. It is possible that, despite existing safeguards, an employee could misappropriate our clients' proprietary information or data, exposing us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Losses or liabilities that are incurred as a result of any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business. If we cause disruptions to our clients' businesses or provide inadequate service, our clients may have claims for substantial damages against us, which could cause us to lose clients, have a negative effect on our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. Many of our engagements involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients' businesses and provide benefits to our clients that may be difficult to quantify. Our software development services involve a high degree of technological complexity and have unique specifications, and could contain design defects or software errors that our quality assurance procedure may fail to detect and correct. Errors or defects may result in the loss of current clients, failure to attract new clients, diversion of development resources and an increase in support or service costs. Furthermore, any failure in a client's 13 Table of Contents system or any breach of security could disrupt the client's business and could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure, if such failure is caused by a breach of our contract obligations upon agreements with clients. In addition, any such failures or errors could seriously damage our reputation and materially affect our ability to attract new business. Most of our contracts contain limitations on liability capped at between six months and one year of payments under the contract, or at the full service contract price; and many of our contracts disclaim any warranties of merchantability and sell our services "as-is." However, not all client contracts contain liability caps, and these limitations on liability may not apply in all circumstances, may be unenforceable in some cases, or may be insufficient to protect us from liability for damages, direct or consequential. Any substantial liability that we incur as a result of any of the above could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against our losses. Although we believe our insurance coverage is customary for the jurisdictions in which we operate, insurance for our operations in CEE does not cover all the risks that a company of a similar size and nature operating in a more economically developed country would insure. For example, we do not have coverage for business interruption or loss of key management personnel. In addition, we only have limited product liability insurance. We do not maintain separate funds or otherwise set aside reserves to cover such losses or third-party claims. Thus, if any such uninsured event were to occur, we might incur substantial costs and diversion of resources, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to continue to attract new personnel, and retain and motivate our existing personnel. Our ability to maintain and renew existing engagements and obtain new business is critical to our success and will largely depend on our ability to attract, train and retain skilled professionals, including experienced IT professionals and other professionals, which enables us to keep pace with growing demands for outsourcing, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. We believe that one of the key factors that distinguishes us from many of our competitors is the quality and educational level of our work force. For example, as of March 31, 2014, over 80% of our software and IT professionals held Master's degrees (or Master's degree equivalents in certain jurisdictions) or higher. Because our business model does not provide for the hiring and training of a large number of junior personnel, we must depend on lateral hires to provide us with skilled professionals. Competition for skilled professionals in the markets in which we operate can be intense and, accordingly, we may not be able to retain or hire all of the professionals necessary to meet our ongoing and future business needs. If our competitors are able to increase the educational level of their work force, or if clients and prospective clients become more price sensitive and choose lower-cost suppliers that have a cheaper labor force, we may lose our competitive advantage notwithstanding the relatively high educational level of our work force. In addition, any reductions in headcount for economic or business reasons, however temporary, could negatively affect our reputation as an employer and our ability to hire qualified professionals to meet our business requirements. Our attrition rates were 12.7%, 12.9% and 9.9% for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. This recent decrease in attrition was due to a series of internal measures, such as the implementation of our Internal Mobility program, which facilitates transfers by our employees between different offices or industry verticals, as well as accelerated overall demand for our services. Our attrition rate decreased during the year ended March 31, 2014 due to the success of our Internal Mobility program and other initiatives aimed at retention and motivation of our staff. We define attrition as the total number of personnel with more than six months of work experience in the 14 Table of Contents company, who have left the company during the reporting period, divided by the total number of personnel at the end of the reporting period, net of employees who have left on the last day of the period. We believe that our competitors calculate attrition based on the same principles, although their methodology may differ slightly from ours. While we have adopted a number of programs aimed at managing our attrition rate, we may encounter higher attrition rates in the future. A significant increase in the attrition rate among professionals with specialized skills could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity and could lead to a decline in demand for our services. The competition for highly-skilled professionals may require us to increase salaries, and we may be unable to pass on these increased costs to our clients. These factors may, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Our failure to attract, train and retain professionals with the qualifications necessary to fulfill the needs of our existing and future clients could materially adversely affect our ability to provide high quality services to our clients. Wage inflation in countries where our delivery centers are located may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We operate delivery centers in Russia, Ukraine, Romania, Poland and Vietnam where wage costs have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the U.S. and Western Europe for comparably skilled professionals. Wages are our most significant operating expense and wage increases in these countries may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage internationally and may negatively affect our profitability. According to Russian Federal State Statistics Service ("Rosstat"), the State Statistics Service of Ukraine, and the Romanian National Institute of Statistics, wage inflation (or deflation) in Russia, Ukraine and Romania, where we have the majority of our employees, for the year ended December 31, 2013 was approximately 6.5%, 0.5% and 1.6%, respectively. Russia and Ukraine use inflation as measured by the consumer price index, as a proxy for wage inflation in official statistics. However, we believe that wage inflation for the IT industry can be significantly higher than overall wage inflation within each of these countries. We may need to increase the levels of employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to remain competitive, and we may not be able to pass on these increased costs to our clients. Unless we are able to continue to increase the efficiency and productivity of our employees as well as the prices we can charge for our services, wage inflation may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates and increased inflation could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We conduct business in multiple countries, which expose us to risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In the year ended March 31, 2014, 65.0% of our sales were denominated in U.S. dollars and 23.7% were denominated in Euros, and 31.1% of our expenses (excluding currency losses and changes in deferred tax) were denominated in Rubles, respectively. As a result, strengthening of the Ruble relative to the U.S. dollar presents the most significant risk to us. The Ruble to U.S. dollar and Euro exchange rates has been volatile in the past few years as a result of instability of the global financial markets. Any further significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact our business significantly. In addition, economies in CEE countries such as Russia, Ukraine and Romania have periodically experienced high rates of inflation. According to the Rosstat, the State Statistics Service of Ukraine, and the Romanian National Institute of Statistics, the inflation rate, as measured by the consumer price index, was as follows: • the annual inflation rate in Russia was 8.8% in 2010, 6.1% in 2011, 6.6% in 2012 and 6.5% in 2013; 15 Table of Contents • the annual inflation rate in Ukraine was 9.1% in 2010, 4.6% in 2011, in 2012 the annual deflation rate was 0.2% in 2012 and it in 2013 the inflation was 0.5%; • the annual inflation rate in Romania was 6.1% in 2010, 5.8% in 2011, 3.3% in 2012 and 4.1% in 2013. Periods of higher inflation may slow economic growth in those countries. As a substantial portion of our expenses (excluding currency losses and changes in deferred tax) are denominated in Rubles, the relative movement of inflation significantly affects our results of operations. Inflation also is likely to increase some of our costs and expenses, including wages, rents, leases and employee benefit payments, which we may not be able to pass on to our clients and, as a result, may reduce our profitability. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase, such inflation may materially adversely affect our business. Inflationary pressures could also affect our ability to access financial markets and lead to counter-inflationary measures that may harm our financial condition, results of operations or materially adversely affect the market price of our securities. Our competitive position and future prospects depend on our senior management's expertise, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our business is dependent on retaining the services of certain key members of the management team who have extensive experience in the IT industry. If a key member of the management team is unable or unwilling to continue in his or her present position, it could disrupt our business operations, and we may not be able to replace such a person easily, or at all. In addition, the number of qualified managerial personnel in the primary jurisdictions in which we operate is limited and competition for the services of such persons in our industry is intense. While we have entered into employment contracts with our senior managers and have provided incentives for them to remain with us, including monetary bonuses and share-based compensation, we cannot guarantee the retention of their services. We currently do not maintain insurance against any damage that may be incurred in case of the loss or dismissal of our key specialists or managers. The loss of any key management may have an adverse effect on our business. If any of our senior management or key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, suppliers, know-how and key technology professionals and staff members to them. Also, if any of our business development managers, who generally keep a close relationship with our clients, joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, and our sales of services may be materially adversely affected. Additionally, such movement by senior management could result in unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge, practices or procedures, which may materially adversely affect our competitive position and, consequently, our business. Our ability to generate and retain business depends on our reputation in the marketplace. Because many of our specific client engagements involve unique services, our corporate reputation is a significant factor in our clients' evaluation of whether to engage our services. We believe the Luxoft brand name and our reputation are important corporate assets that help distinguish our services from those of our competitors and also contribute to our efforts to recruit and retain talented employees. However, our corporate reputation is susceptible to damage by actions or statements made by current or former clients, competitors, vendors, employees and adversaries, as well as government regulators, in legal proceedings or otherwise and members of the investment community and the media, irrespective of the accuracy of the information on which such actions or statements are based. There is a risk that negative information about us, even if based on false rumor or misunderstanding, could adversely affect our business. In particular, damage to our reputation could be difficult and time-consuming to repair, could make potential or existing clients reluctant to select us for new engagements and could materially adversely affect our recruitment and retention efforts. Damage to our reputation could also reduce the 16 Table of Contents value and effectiveness of the Luxoft brand name and could reduce investor confidence in us. Our inability to generate or retain business as a result of damage to our reputation could materially adversely affect our business. If we do not succeed in quickly assimilating new technologies and rapidly changing technologies, methodologies and evolving industry standards, our business may be materially and adversely affected. The IT industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, methodologies and evolving industry standards. Our clients rely on us to continue to anticipate and provide them with the most innovative technologies on the market. Our future success will to a large extent depend on our ability to quickly acquire and assimilate cutting edge technologies, which we can then use to develop our clients' systems. Development and introduction of new services and products involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges, including: • it may be difficult or costly to update our services, applications, tools and software and to develop new services and products quickly enough to meet our clients' needs; • it may be difficult or costly to make some features of our software work effectively and securely over the Internet or with new or changed operating systems; • it may be difficult or costly to update our software and services to keep pace with business, evolving industry standards, methodologies, regulatory and other developments in the industries where our clients operate; and • it may be difficult to maintain a high level of quality in implementing new technologies and methodologies. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments in a timely manner, or if we do respond, the services, technologies or methodologies we develop or implement may not be successful in the marketplace. Further, products, services, technologies or methodologies that are developed by our competitors may render our services and products non-competitive or obsolete. Our failure to enhance our existing services and to develop and introduce new services and products in line with the developments in technology, methodologies and standards in the IT industry that will promptly address the needs of our clients could cause us to lose clients, and materially adversely affect our business. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to manage large and complex projects and complete fixed price, fixed-timeframe contracts on budget and on time. Our profitability and operating results are dependent on the scale of our projects and the prices we are able to charge for our services. We are performing an increasing percentage of our work through fixed price contracts, in which we assume full control of the project team, including the project manager, lead analyst and lead architect, and manage all facets of execution. As we take on more sophisticated projects, while simultaneously shifting more engagements to a fixed price model, we may be unable to accurately estimate the appropriate project price and successfully manage large and complex projects. Although we use specified technical processes and our past project experience to reduce the risks associated with estimating, planning and performing fixed price and fixed-timeframe projects, we face the risk of cost overruns, completion delays and wage inflation in connection with these projects. Pricing projects on a fixed price basis is a relatively new model for our business, so we have less experience in pricing projects on this basis. If we fail to accurately estimate the resources and time required for a project or future rates of wage inflation, or if we fail to perform contractual obligations within the contractual timeframe, our profitability could suffer. 17 Table of Contents The challenges of managing larger and more complex projects include: • maintaining high-quality control and process execution standards; • maintaining planned resource utilization rates on a consistent basis; • maintaining productivity levels and implementing necessary process improvements; • controlling project costs; • maintaining close client contact and high levels of client satisfaction; • recruiting and retaining sufficient numbers of skilled IT professionals; and • maintaining effective client relationships. In addition, large and complex projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. Such cancellations or delays may make it difficult to plan our project resource requirements, and may result in lower profitability levels than we anticipated upon commencing engagements. Our profitability could suffer if we fail to maintain favorable pricing for our projects. The pricing of our services is affected by a number of factors, including: • our clients' perception of our ability to add value through our services; • our competitors' pricing policies; • bid practices of clients and their use of third-party advisors; • our ability to charge premium prices when justified by market demand or the type of service; • our large clients' pricing leverage; and • general economic conditions. If we are not able to maintain favorable pricing for our services, our profitability could suffer. If we are unable to collect our receivables from, or bill our unbilled services to our clients, our results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. We usually bill and collect such amounts on relatively short cycles. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and, as a result, we might need to adjust our allowances. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Weak macroeconomic conditions and related turmoil in the global financial system could also result in financial difficulties, including limited access to the credit markets, insolvency, or bankruptcy for our clients, and, as a result, could cause clients to delay payments, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations. In addition, some of our clients may delay payments due to changes in internal payment procedures driven by rules and regulations these clients are subject to. Timely collection of client balances also depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted sales of services. If we are unable to meet our contractual requirements and if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, we might be unable to collect our client balances or experience delays in collection. If this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Our sales of services, operating results or profitability may experience significant variability and our past results may not be indicative of our future performance. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Factors that are likely to cause these variations include: • the number, timing, scope and contractual terms of projects in which we are engaged; • delays in project commencement or staffing delays due to difficulty in assigning appropriately skilled or experienced professionals; • the accuracy of estimates on the resources, time and fees required to complete fixed price projects and costs incurred in the performance of each project; • inability to maintain high employee utilization levels; • changes in pricing in response to client demand and competitive pressures; • changes in the allocation of on-site and offshore staffing; • the business decisions of our clients regarding the use of our services; • the ability to further grow sales of services from existing clients; • the available leadership and senior technical resources compared to junior engineering resources staffed on each project; • seasonal trends and the budget and work cycles of our clients; • delays or difficulties in expanding our operational facilities or infrastructure; • our ability to estimate costs under fixed price contracts; • employee wage levels and increases in compensation costs, including timing of promotions and annual pay increases; • unanticipated contract or project terminations; • the timing of collection of accounts receivable; • our ability to manage risk through our contracts; • the continuing financial stability of our clients; and • general economic conditions. Based upon all of the factors described above, our operating results may from time to time fall below our estimates or the expectations of public market analysts and investors. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant share-based compensation expenses which could adversely impact our net income. We have granted options under our stock option plan, as a result of which we have recorded $2.2 million, $5.5 million and $1.4 million in share-based compensation expenses for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. U.S. GAAP prescribes how we account for share-based compensation. U.S. GAAP requires us to recognize share-based compensation as a compensation expense in the statement of comprehensive income generally based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with the 19 Table of Contents compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. Such expenses could adversely impact our results of operations or the price of our Class A ordinary shares. While in the past we recorded significant share-based compensation expenses, if we do not grant equity awards, or if we reduce the number of equity awards we grant, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. If we adopt additional equity incentive plans in the future in order to attract and retain key personnel, the expenses associated with such additional equity awards could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We may be subject to third-party claims of intellectual property infringement that could be time-consuming and costly to defend. Our success largely depends on our ability to use and develop our technology, tools, code, methodologies and services, which might also require us to utilize the intellectual property rights of third parties, including patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks. All intellectual property ("IP") rights created by our employees and contractors are transferred to us subject to local laws and regulations. Typically, we transfer to our clients all of the intellectual property rights to the software we develop for them within the scope of our custom software development and software engineering arrangement, without retaining any rights for ourselves. In developing software for our clients we use third-party environment software under separate license agreements, or, if requested by clients, we may incorporate third-party software into our software development for them. In these cases, we acquire all necessary licenses for such software once we reach a preliminary agreement with our clients. Although there are no material pending or threatened intellectual property claims against us as of the date of this annual report, and we believe that our intellectual property rights do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, infringement claims may be asserted against us in the future. For example, we may be unaware of intellectual property registrations or applications relating to our services that may give rise to potential infringement claims against us. Our contracts may be deemed to result in the assignment to our clients of the rights to any developments or improvements in our proprietary delivery platform, software development tools, or residual know-how developed by us during the course of our engagements. Such an interpretation may give rise to a potential claim that our product improvements or residual know-how were previously assigned to our client and can no longer be used by us on behalf of ourselves or other clients, or subject us to liability for infringement of our client's intellectual property rights. There may also be technologies licensed to and relied on by us that are subject to infringement or other corresponding allegations or claims by third parties which may damage our ability to rely on such technologies. Further, our current and former employees and/or contractors could challenge our exclusive rights in the software they have developed in the course of their employment or engagement. In Russia and certain other countries in which we operate, (a) where intellectual property was created by an employee of a company as part of their employment relationship, the respective employee retains authorship of such intellectual property, while the employer, unless otherwise provided in the employment agreement, is deemed to own the exclusive rights to such intellectual property, and (b) where an engaged specialized contractor creates the intellectual property by contract with the client, the latter is by default the holder of exclusive rights to such intellectual property, unless the contract provides otherwise. However, in either case, the authors, regardless of whether they were employees of the company or of any of its contractors (as the case may be), may retain authorship and should be paid consideration for the intellectual property work performed. In the case of intellectual property work created by an employee during his/her employment, the employer may be required to satisfy additional legal requirements in order to make further use or dispose of such intellectual property. While we believe that we have complied with all such requirements, and have fulfilled all requirements necessary to acquire all rights, to the extent permitted by law, to software developed by our employees and contractors, courts have been inconsistent in their approach to enforcing such applicable legal 20 Table of Contents requirements. As a result, there can be no guarantee that we would be successful in defending against any claim by our current or former employees or contractors challenging our exclusive rights over the use and transfer of works that the respective employees and contractors created or requesting additional compensation for such works. Parties making infringement claims may be able to obtain an injunction to prevent us from delivering our services or using technology containing the allegedly infringing intellectual property. We may also be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights of third parties. Furthermore, most of our client contracts require us to indemnify the client in these circumstances for any damages and expenses the client incurs in defending any such claims by third parties, and we may be required to indemnify the client even if the claim by the third party against our client is without merit or is dismissed. If we fail to defend ourselves and our clients against such claims, our reputation as well as our financial condition may be adversely affected. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, including our unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets, or in avoiding claims that we infringed on the intellectual property rights of others. We rely on unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets and employ commercially reasonable methods, including confidentiality agreements with employees and consultants, to protect our know-how and trade secrets. However, these methods and our patents and trademarks may not afford complete protection and there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better production methods than us. Further, we may not be able to deter current and former employees, contractors and other parties from breaching confidentiality agreements and misappropriating proprietary information and it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. Additionally, in the future we may develop and license trade secrets and similar proprietary rights to third parties. While we attempt to ensure that our intellectual property and similar proprietary rights are protected when entering into business relationships, third parties may take actions that could materially and adversely affect our rights or the value of our intellectual property, similar proprietary rights or reputation. In the future, we may also rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights and, if not successful, we may not be able to protect the value of our intellectual property. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that we will not be subject to claims asserting the infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties seeking damages, the payment of royalties or licensing fees and/or injunctions against the sale of our products. Any litigation could be protracted and costly and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations regardless of its outcome. We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by violations of intellectual property rights and the disclosure of other confidential information, system failures, errors or unsatisfactory performance of services, and our insurance policies may not be sufficient to cover these damages. We often have access to sensitive or confidential client information, including personally identifiable information. The protection of our clients' intellectual property rights and other confidential information, including personally identifiable information of our clients, is particularly important for us since our operations are mainly based in CEE countries. CEE countries have not traditionally enforced intellectual property protection to the same extent as countries such as the United States. To protect proprietary information and other intellectual property, we require our 21 Table of Contents employees, independent contractors, vendors and clients to enter into written confidentiality agreements with us. Despite measures we take to protect the intellectual property and other confidential information or personally identifiable information of our clients, unauthorized parties, including our employees and subcontractors, may attempt to misappropriate certain intellectual property rights that are proprietary to our clients or otherwise breach our clients' confidences. The agreements we enter into with employees, independent contractors, vendors and clients may not provide meaningful protection for trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our and our clients' proprietary technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our and our clients' proprietary technologies, tools and applications could enable third parties to benefit from our or our clients' technologies, tools and applications without paying us for doing so. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client information, including personally identifiable information, or a violation of intellectual property rights, whether through employee misconduct, breach of our computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, may subject us to liabilities, damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Our client contracts generally provide for indemnity for intellectual property infringements of third party rights that arise from our breach under such contracts. Although we attempt to limit our contractual liability for consequential damages in rendering our services, and provide limitation of liabilities for amount of such liabilities, typically to one year's payment under the relevant agreement, these limitations on liability may not apply in all circumstances, and may be unenforceable in some cases, or may be insufficient to protect us from liability for damages. There may be instances when liabilities for damages are greater than the insurance coverage we hold and we will have to internalize those losses, damages and liabilities not covered by our insurance. Furthermore, if any third party brings any claims against our clients, claiming that our work product or intellectual property transferred to our clients violates, or infringes upon such third party's IP rights, any such claims could result in claims by our clients against us, which could result in the loss of such client, could seriously damage our reputation, could result in other clients terminating their engagements with us and could make it more difficult to obtain new clients. If we fail to integrate or manage acquired businesses efficiently, or if the acquired companies are difficult to integrate, divert management resources or do not perform to our expectations, we may not be able to realize the benefits envisioned for such acquisitions, and our overall profitability and growth plans could be materially adversely affected. On occasion we have expanded our service capabilities and gained new clients through selective acquisitions. We plan to continue making selective acquisitions in the future. Our ability to successfully integrate an acquired business and realize the benefits of an acquisition requires, among other things, successful integration of technologies, operations and personnel. Challenges we face in the acquisition and integration process include: • integrating operations, services and personnel in a timely and efficient manner; • diverting significant management attention and financial resources from our other operations and disrupting our ongoing business; • unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities and integration costs; • incurring liabilities from the acquired businesses for infringement of intellectual property rights or other claims for which we may not be successful in seeking indemnification; 22 Table of Contents • incurring debt, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, large and immediate write-offs, or issuing ordinary shares as consideration for the acquired assets that would dilute our existing shareholders' ownership; • generating sufficient revenues and net income to offset acquisition costs; • potential loss of, or harm to, employee or client relationships; • properly structuring our acquisition consideration and any related post-acquisition earn-outs and successfully monitoring any earn-out calculations and payments; • failing to realize the potential cost savings or other financial benefits and/or the strategic benefits of the acquisition; • retaining key senior management and key sales and marketing and research and development personnel, particularly those of the acquired operations; • consolidating and rationalizing corporate, information technology and administrative infrastructures; • entry into unfamiliar markets; and • increased complexity from potentially operating additional geographically dispersed sites, particularly if we acquire a company or business with facilities or operations outside of the countries in which we currently have operations. In addition, the primary value of many potential acquisition targets in the IT services industry lies in their skilled IT professionals and established client relationships. Transitioning these types of assets to our business can be particularly difficult due to different corporate cultures and values, geographic distance and other intangible factors. For example, some newly acquired employees may decide not to work with us or to leave shortly after their move to our company and some acquired clients may decide to discontinue their commercial relationships with us. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses, including causing us to incur one-time expenses and write-offs, and make it more difficult and complex for our management to effectively manage our operations. If we are not able to successfully integrate an acquired business and its operations and to realize the benefits envisioned for such acquisition, our overall growth and profitability plans may be adversely affected. Our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our results of operations and require increased time and attention from our management. We have operations in a number of jurisdictions, including Russia, Ukraine, Romania, the U.S., the U.K., Poland and Vietnam, and we serve clients across North America, Europe and Asia. As a result, we may be subject to risks inherently associated with international operations. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal, tax and regulatory requirements, and violations or unfavorable interpretation by the respective authorities of these regulations could harm our business. Additional risks associated with international operations include difficulties in enforcing contractual rights, the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and potentially adverse tax consequences, including permanent establishment and transfer pricing issues, tariffs, quotas and other barriers and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. In addition, we may face competition in other countries from companies that may have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations. Additionally, such companies may have long-standing or well-established relationships with desired clients, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. We may also face difficulties integrating new facilities in different countries into our existing operations, as well as integrating employees that we hire in different countries into our existing corporate culture. Our 23 Table of Contents international expansion plans may not be successful and we may not be able to compete effectively in other countries. We cannot ensure that these and other factors will not impede the success of our international expansion plans or limit our ability to compete effectively in other countries. Our business operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by negative publicity about offshore outsourcing or anti-outsourcing legislation in the U.S. or other countries in which our clients operate. Concerns that offshore outsourcing has resulted in a loss of jobs and sensitive technologies and information to foreign countries have led to negative publicity concerning outsourcing in some countries, including the United States. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform services that we offer themselves, or may be discouraged from transferring these services to offshore providers such as ourselves to avoid any negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore provider. As a result, our ability to compete effectively with competitors that operate primarily out of facilities located in these countries could be harmed. In addition, anti-outsourcing legislation, if adopted, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and impair our ability to service our clients. We depend on a limited number of key accounting personnel for the preparation of U.S. GAAP financial statements. Given the competition for such personnel some of the key accounting personnel may leave, which could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately report U.S. GAAP financial statements. We maintain our books and records and prepare stand-alone accounting reports for management reporting purposes, which are then consolidated on a monthly basis, and adjusted to conform to US GAAP financial reporting on a quarterly basis. Timely and accurate US GAAP financial reporting is a challenging task, requiring us to retain a sufficient number of U.S. GAAP-experienced accounting personnel. While we have accounting personnel with the required U.S. GAAP expertise, this still may not be sufficient to support our rapid growth. There is strong demand for U.S. GAAP-experienced accounting personnel in the regions in which we operate, and as such, we may not be able to effectively compete for such personnel. In case we are not able to retain such personnel or replace them in a timely manner, this may disrupt our ability to timely and accurately report US GAAP financial statements. We may need additional capital, and a failure by us to raise additional capital on terms favorable to us, or at all, could limit our ability to grow our business and develop or enhance our service offerings to respond to market demand or competitive challenges. We believe that our current cash balances, cash flow from operations and credit facilities should be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain another credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • investors' perception of, and demand for, securities of IT services companies; • conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; • our future results of operations and financial condition; and • economic, political and other conditions in CEE and globally. 24 Table of Contents Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and could limit our ability to grow our business and develop or enhance our service offerings to respond to market demand or competitive challenges. We face risks associated with having significant resource commitments to provide services prior to realizing sales for those services. We have a long selling cycle for our IT services (generally up to 18 months for new clients), which requires significant investment of human resources and time by both our clients and us. Before committing to use our services, potential clients require us to expend substantial time and resources educating them on the value of our services and our ability to meet their requirements. Therefore, our selling cycle is subject to many risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including our clients' decisions to choose alternatives to our services (such as other IT services providers or in-house resources) and the timing of our clients' budget cycles and approval processes. Our selling cycle for new clients can be especially unpredictable. In the past, we have received sales from new clients up to six months later than expected. If our selling cycle unexpectedly lengthens for one or more large projects, it would negatively affect the timing of our sales and hinder our sales growth. Implementing our services also involves a significant commitment of resources over an extended period of time from both our clients and us. Our clients may experience delays in obtaining internal approvals or delays associated with technology, thereby further delaying the implementation process. Our current and future clients may not be willing or able to invest the time and resources necessary to implement our services, and we may fail to close sales with potential clients to which we have devoted significant time and resources. Any significant failure to generate sales, or delays in recognizing sales after incurring costs related to our sales or services process, could materially adversely affect our business. Our effective tax rate could be materially adversely affected by a number of factors. We conduct business globally and file income tax returns in multiple jurisdictions, including United States, Switzerland, Russia, Cyprus, Ukraine and Romania. Our effective tax rate could be materially adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the amount of income taxed by or allocated to the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have different statutory tax rates; changing tax laws, regulations and interpretations of such tax laws in multiple jurisdictions; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits or examinations and any related interest or penalties. We report our results of operations based on our determination of the amount of taxes owed in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. We have certain intercompany arrangements among our subsidiaries in relation to various aspects of our business, including operations, marketing, sales and delivery functions that are subject to transfer pricing regulations of the respective jurisdiction. U.S. transfer pricing regulations, as well as regulations applicable in CEE countries in which we operate, require that any international transaction involving associated enterprises be on arm's-length terms. We consider the transactions among our subsidiaries to be on arm's-length terms; however, the determination of our consolidated provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimates, judgment and calculations, and the ultimate tax determination may not be certain. Our determination of tax liability is always subject to review or examination by authorities in various jurisdictions. If a tax authority in any jurisdiction reviews any of our tax returns and proposes an adjustment and/or imposes fines and/or penalties, including, as a result of a determination, that the transfer prices and terms we have applied are not appropriate, this could have a negative impact on our financial results. 25 Table of Contents We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. holders. Based on our financial statements, relevant market data, and the projected composition of our comprehensive income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we do not expect to be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for the year ending March 31, 2015, and we do not expect to become one in the future, although there can be no assurance in this regard. If we become a PFIC, holders of our Class A ordinary shares in the U.S. may become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations and may become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our comprehensive income and assets from time to time. Specifically, for any taxable year we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (i) 75% or more of our gross income in that taxable year is passive income or (ii) the average percentage of our assets (which includes cash) by value in that taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the quarterly market value of our Class A ordinary shares, which is subject to change. See "ITEM 10. Additional Information—Taxation—United States federal income taxation." We have not yet determined whether our existing internal control over financial reporting is effective under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and, as an emerging growth company, are currently not required to obtain an auditor attestation regarding our internal control. We will be required to comply with the internal control, evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act") in our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ending March 31, 2015. Accordingly, we have only recently commenced the process of determining whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems are compliant with Section 404. Furthermore, unless we lose our status as an "emerging growth company" under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 prior to the end of the fiscal year in which the fifth anniversary of the year during which our IPO occurred, we will not be required to obtain an auditor attestation under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until the year ending March 31, 2019 (or the last day of our fiscal year in which June 25, 2018 falls). The process of evaluating our internal control over financial reporting will require an investment of substantial time and resources, including by our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our senior management. As a result, this process may divert internal resources and take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of this determination and whether we will need to implement remedial actions in order to implement effective control over financial reporting. The determination and any remedial actions required could result in us incurring additional costs that we did not anticipate. Irrespective of compliance with Section 404, any failure of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our stated results of operations and harm our reputation. As a result, we may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses, as well as higher independent auditor fees during and after the implementation of these changes. If we are unable to implement any of the required changes to our internal control over financial reporting effectively or efficiently, it could adversely affect our operations, financial reporting and/or results of operations and could result in an qualified opinion on internal controls from our independent auditors. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Ensuring that we have adequate disclosure controls and procedures, including internal controls over financial reporting, in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is costly, time-consuming and needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Having recently become a public company, we are in the process of documenting, reviewing and, if appropriate, improving our internal 26 Table of Contents controls and procedures and eventually being subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and, when we cease to be an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act, a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. We will be required to comply with the internal controls evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective due to our failure to cure any identified material weakness or otherwise. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may not conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. Although no such material weaknesses were identified as a result of the audit of our financial statements for the years ended March 31, 2012, March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2014, our independent registered accounting firm did identify a material weakness in relation to certain aspects of our internal controls in connection with the audit of our financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2011. Going forward, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be satisfied with our internal controls over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or it may interpret the relevant requirements differently from us. As a result, such firm may decline to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting or may issue a qualified report. In addition, during the course of the evaluation, documentation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, as these standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and we may suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violations of listing standards. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. International hostilities, terrorist activities, other violence or war, natural disasters, pandemics and infrastructure disruptions, could delay or reduce the number of new service orders we receive and impair our ability to service our clients. Hostilities involving the United States and acts of terrorism, violence or war, such as the attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States, the attacks of July 7, 2005 in the United Kingdom, the Domodedevo Airport bombing on January 24, 2011 in Moscow, Russia, the continuing conflict in Afghanistan, the recent conflicts in North Africa, current armed clashes in the eastern regions of Ukraine, natural disasters, global health risks or pandemics or the threat or perceived potential for these events could materially adversely affect our operations and our ability to provide services to our clients. We may be unable to protect our people, facilities and systems against any such occurrences. Such events may cause clients to delay their decisions on spending for IT services and give rise to sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. These events also pose significant risks to our people and to physical facilities and operations around the world, whether the facilities are ours or those of our clients, which could materially adversely affect our financial results. By disrupting communications and travel, giving rise to travel restrictions, and increasing the difficulty of obtaining and retaining highly-skilled and qualified IT professionals, these events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver services to some or all of our clients. Travel restrictions could cause us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain the skilled IT professionals we need for our operations. In addition, any extended disruptions of electricity, other public utilities or network services at our facilities, as well as system failures at, or security breaches in, our facilities or systems, could also adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. 27 Table of Contents Risks related to conducting business in CEE countries The current geopolitical instability in Russia and Ukraine and related government sanctions may adversely affect our operations in Russia and Ukraine, hinder our ability to service our existing or potential clients from these countries or to conduct business with clients in these countries. Ukraine has been undergoing heightened political turmoil since late February 2014. We cannot predict the outcome of developments there or the reaction to such developments by U.S., European, U.N. or other international authorities. The continuation or escalation of the resulting and ongoing geopolitical instability in Russia and Ukraine could negatively impact our operations, sales, and future growth prospects. We have delivery centers in Ukraine, employing over 3,100 engineers located in Kiev, Dnepropetrovsk and Odessa. We also have delivery centers in Russia, employing over 1,800 engineers located in various cities. At present we have not experienced any interruption in our office infrastructure, utility supply or Internet connectivity. All our offices remain open and fully functional to support our clients. Our contingency plans include relocating work or personnel to other locations and adding new locations as appropriate. We recently opened a new delivery center in Sophia, Bulgaria. In May 2014 we launched a multi-year Global Upgrade program to implement another level of globalization across our organization and to accelerate our expansion in the EU, the U.K., Asia Pacific and North America. As part of this program, to better support our global client base, we plan to relocate up to 500 engineers currently based in Russia and Ukraine to our CEE locations such as Poland, Romania and Bulgaria, and we may increase the size of our Vietnam office. We also continue to monitor the effect of the sanctions recently imposed by the U.S. and European government authorities through several executive orders, which restrict U.S. companies from conducting business with specified Russian and Ukrainian individuals and entities. While the executive orders currently do not affect our ability to conduct business, the sanctions imposed by the U.S. government may be expanded in the future. If we are unable to conduct business with our existing or potential clients, continue our operations or pursue opportunities in Russia or Ukraine, as a result of the recent geopolitical developments or the reaction to these developments by U.S., European, U.N. or other international authorities, our business, including revenue, profitability and cash flows, could be materially adversely affected. Emerging markets, such as CEE countries, are subject to greater risks than more developed markets, and financial turmoil in any emerging market could disrupt our business. CEE countries are generally considered to be emerging markets. Investors in emerging markets should be aware that these markets are subject to greater risk than more developed markets, including in some cases significant legal, economic and political risks. Investors should note that emerging markets are subject to rapid change and that the information set out in this annual report may become outdated relatively quickly. Moreover, financial turmoil in any emerging market country tends to adversely affect prices in the equity markets of all emerging market countries, as investors move their money to more stable, developed markets. As has happened in the past, financial problems or an increase in the perceived risks associated with investing in emerging economies could dampen foreign investment in the CEE region and adversely affect the economy of the region. In addition, during such times, companies that operate in emerging markets can face severe liquidity constraints as foreign funding sources are withdrawn. Thus, even if the economy of the CEE region remains relatively stable, financial turmoil in any emerging market country could adversely affect our business, as well as result in a decrease in the price of our Class A ordinary shares. Accordingly, investors should exercise particular care in evaluating the risks involved and must decide for themselves whether, in light of those risks, their investment is appropriate. Generally, investment in emerging markets is only suitable for sophisticated investors who fully appreciate the 28 Table of Contents significance of the risks involved, and investors are urged to consult with their own legal and financial advisors before making an investment decision. Political and governmental instability in CEE countries could materially adversely affect our business and operations in these countries. We have significant operations in Russia, Ukraine and Romania. Since the early 1990s, Russia, Ukraine, Romania and other CEE countries have sought to transform from one-party states with a centrally planned economy to democracies with a market economy of various degrees. As a result of various reforms, and the failure of some of them, the political systems of many CEE countries remain vulnerable and unstable. In addition, the political and economic situation in these countries is negatively affected by the global financial and economic crisis, the on-going economic recession and political conflicts. The ongoing civil unrest and political instability in Ukraine has affected the relations between the Russian Federation and Ukraine. On March 16, 2014, a referendum was held in Crimea, pursuant to which the majority of those who voted were in favor of annexation from Ukraine and joining Russia as a federal subject. On March 17, 2014, the parliament of Crimea declared independence from Ukraine and officially applied to join Russia. On March 18, 2014, the Republic of Crimea and the Russian Federation signed an agreement, accepting the Republic of Crimea into the Russian Federation. On March 21, 2014, the Russian parliament passed legislation extending the effect of Russian laws and state authority to the territory of Crimea. The law provides for a transitional period until January 1, 2015 for purposes of fully integrating Crimea into Russia. These events in Crimea and the resulting change in Crimea's legal status have prompted a negative reaction from the United States, the European Union and certain other countries, which have refused to recognize the referendum in Crimea. As a result, the United States and the European Union have imposed sanctions on a number of former Ukrainian government officials, Russian government officials and certain Russian and Ukrainian entities and individuals, as well as several non-Russian companies holding assets in Russia. These sanctions include the blocking of funds, property and interests of such persons and entities, as well as visa bans. No assurance can be given that additional persons will not be subjected to sanctions or that other jurisdictions or international bodies will not impose similar or additional sanctions. The reaction of the United States, the European Union and certain other countries, and in particular the economic sanctions described below, has adversely affected the Russian economy and the Russian financial market, increased capital outflows as well as worsened the general business and investment climate in Russia. In March 2014, both the Fitch and Standard & Poor's credit agencies revised their credit outlook on Russia to "negative" citing potential impact on Russia's slowing economy and business environment of the U.S. and the EU sanctions, and in April 2014, Standard & Poor's lowered its long- and short-term foreign currency sovereign ratings on Russia to "BBB-/A-3" from "BBB/A-2" with a negative outlook. Moreover, the continued impact of these events and any continuing or escalating military action, public protests, unrest, political instability or further sanctions could have a further adverse effect on the Ukrainian and Russian economies and consequently, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Future political instability could result in a worsening overall economic situation, including capital flight and slowdown of investment and business activity. In the first half of 2014, as a result of the severe political conflict between the acting government of Ukraine and the opposition, Ukraine has conducted an early presidential election. Although the political situation in the country is stabilizing, there are still armed clashes between Ukrainian military forces and opposition supporting the separation of the eastern regions from Ukraine. Further escalation 29 Table of Contents of the political instability or military action can have a material negative impact on our operations in Ukraine. The current political environment in Romania is dynamic and may become unstable. Since the demise of the Democrats-led government (supported by the center-right and friendly towards business) in early 2012, the Social-Democrats have been in power, until recently, in a coalition with the Liberals. The Liberals have recently de facto terminated their alliance with the Social-Democrats and no longer support the government, which fragmented the government's support in the Parliament and may also increase temptations towards populist measures at the level of the government. Also, despite the fact that President Basescu and Prime Minister Ponta (supported by representatives of opposed political powers) reached a cooperation agreement, the current political environment in Romania remains characterized by turmoil resulting from an ongoing political conflict between them. In this context and also considering the pressure of upcoming presidential elections towards the end of the year, amendments in the policies pursued by the Romanian government and the political instability may have a material negative impact on our operations in Romania. Deterioration in political and economic relations among CEE countries in which we operate and/or between CEE countries and the U.S. and the European Union could materially adversely affect our business and operations in CEE. Political and economic relations between Russia, Romania, Ukraine and the other countries in which we operate are complex, and recent conflicts have arisen between their governments. Likewise, CEE countries continue to have a complicated relationship with the U.S. and the European Union. Political, ethnic, religious, historical and other differences have, on occasion, given rise to tensions and, in certain cases, military conflicts between countries of CEE which can halt normal economic activity and disrupt the economies of neighboring regions. The relationship between Russia and Ukraine has been historically strained due to, among other things, disagreements over the prices and methods of payment for gas delivered by Russia to, or for transportation through, Ukraine, issues relating to the temporary stationing of the Russian Black Sea Fleet in the territory of Ukraine, a Russian ban on imports of meat and milk products from Ukraine and anti-dumping investigations conducted by Russian authorities in relation to certain Ukrainian goods. Despite the fact that the possible accession by Ukraine to NATO was delayed by Ukraine declaring its neutral status to military blocks, its willingness to stay in close cooperation with NATO has also been a significant source of tension between Russia and Ukraine. Following the recent events related to Crimea and the new wave of gas price negotiations in 2014, political tension between Russia and Ukraine has increased significantly. Any further adverse changes in Ukraine's relations with Russia, in particular any such changes adversely affecting supplies of energy resources from Russia to Ukraine or Ukraine's revenues derived from transit charges for Russian oil and gas, may have negative effects on the Ukrainian economy as a whole. The conflicts among CEE countries and conflicts within CEE countries have, in some instances, also strained their relationship with the U.S. and the European Union which, at times, has negatively impacted their financial markets. As a result of the annexation of Crimea and following sanctions imposed by the United States and the EU on a number of former Ukrainian government officials, certain Russian government officials, certain Russian and Ukrainian individuals and entities, as well as non-Russian companies holding assets in Russia, CEE financial markets and general investment climate has been affected significantly. See "—Political and governmental instability in CEE countries could materially adversely affect our business and operations in these countries." Similarly, economic deterioration in CEE countries may strain political relationships with neighboring regions, and vice versa. For example, Romania joined the European Union in January 2007, and is subject to certain post-accession benchmarks mandated by the EU under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism to help Romania address outstanding shortcomings in various social fields such as judicial reform and fight against corruption. On January 22, 2013, the 30 Table of Contents European Commission presented a report assessing the fact that Romania has registered progress in several fields. The enactment of legislative amendments continued as well. However, the report notes concerns regarding the independence of the judicial system, resulting from resistance to anticorruption and integrity measures, at both political and administrative levels. If Romania does not adequately address these benchmarks the European Commission is entitled to apply certain sanctions against Romania, including the suspension of Member States' obligation to recognize and enforce, under the conditions set forth in the Community laws, the decisions of Romanian courts. The application of any of the sanctions referenced above may have a negative effect on the Romanian economy and investor confidence in the Romanian economic environment, which could lead to material adverse consequences on our operations in Romania. The emergence of new or escalated tensions among CEE countries could further exacerbate tensions between CEE countries and the U.S. and the European Union, which may have a negative effect on their economy, our ability to obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms, and the level and volatility of the trading price of our Class A ordinary shares. Any of the foregoing circumstances could materially adversely affect our business and operations in the CEE. The legal and tax systems in CEE countries can create an uncertain environment for business activity, which could materially adversely affect our business and operations in the CEE. The legal and tax framework to support a market economy remains new and in flux in Russia, Ukraine, Romania and other CEE countries and, as a result, these systems can be characterized by: • inconsistencies between and among laws and governmental, ministerial and local regulations, orders, decisions, resolutions and other acts; • gaps in the regulatory structure resulting from the delay in adoption or absence of implementing regulations; • selective enforcement of laws or regulations, sometimes in ways that have been perceived as being motivated by political or financial considerations; • limited judicial and administrative guidance on interpreting legislation; • relatively limited experience of judges and courts in interpreting recent commercial legislation; • a perceived lack of judicial and prosecutorial independence from political, social and commercial forces; • inadequate court system resources; • a high degree of discretion on the part of the judiciary and governmental authorities; and • underdeveloped bankruptcy procedures that are subject to abuse. The relatively recent enactment of many laws, the lack of consensus about the scope, content and pace of political and economic reform and the rapid evolution of legal systems in ways that may not always coincide with market developments have resulted in legal ambiguities, inconsistencies and anomalies and, in certain cases, the enactment of laws without a clear constitutional or legislative basis. Furthermore, legal and bureaucratic obstacles and corruption exist to varying degrees in each of the regions in which we operate, and these factors are likely to hinder our further development. These characteristics give rise to investment risks that do not exist in countries with more developed legal systems. In addition, as is true of civil law systems generally, judicial precedents generally have no binding effect on subsequent decisions. Not all legislation and court decisions in CEE countries are readily available to the public or organized in a manner that facilitates understanding. Enforcement of court 31 Table of Contents orders can be very difficult in practice. All of these factors make judicial decisions difficult to predict and effective redress uncertain. Additionally, court claims and governmental prosecutions may be used in furtherance of what some perceive to be political aims. The untested nature of much of recent legislation in the countries in which we operate and the rapid evolution of their legal systems may result in ambiguities, inconsistencies and anomalies in the application and interpretation of laws and regulations. Any of these factors may affect our ability to enforce our rights under our contracts or to defend ourselves against claims by others, or result in our being subject to unpredictable requirements. These uncertainties also extend to property rights; and the expropriation or nationalization of any of our entities, their assets or portions thereof, potentially without adequate compensation, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Loss of certain tax benefits that we enjoy in Russia and Ukraine could have a negative impact on our operating results and profitability. The Russian government provides qualified Russian IT companies with substantial tax benefits through a reduced social contribution charge rate program, as well as through VAT exemptions. These programs resulted in savings for us of $23.9 million in the year ended March, 31, 2013 and $25.5 million in the year ended March 31, 2014. However, the reduced tax rates for social contributions (14% in total) are only available until December 31, 2017, after which the Russian government plans to gradually increase the tax rates (21% in 2018 and 28% in 2019) until they are equal to the rates for non-qualified companies (34%) in 2020. If the Russian government were to change its favorable treatment of Russian IT companies by modifying or repealing its current favorable tax measures, or if we become ineligible for such favorable treatment, it would significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of the persons who work for us in the Ukraine are independent contractors. Although we believe that we have properly classified these workers as independent contractors and are, therefore, not required to pay social duties and personal income tax applicable to employees, there is, nevertheless, a risk that the Ukrainian tax authority may take a different view. Laws and regulations that govern the status and classification of independent contractors are subject to change or interpretation by various authorities. In addition, if a national or local authority or court enacts legislation or adopts regulations that change the manner in which employees and independent contractors are classified, or makes any adverse determination with respect to some or all of our independent contractors, we could incur significant costs arising from fines or judgments as a result of tax withholding. We may also elect to hire these independent contractors as our employees, and, we may, as a result, incur significant personnel expenses. Amendments to the Ukrainian tax code granting substantial benefits to software development companies which became effective on January 1, 2013. For software companies, the effective preferential tax system is in place for a period of 10 years, and includes payment of income tax at the rate of 5%, and the exemption from VAT of the supply of software products. However, the new preferential system contains a large number of risks due to ambiguities in the law. Therefore, these preferential tax policies may not fully offset the increased costs we may be subject to in the event we are forced to hire our independent contractors as our employees. Any or all of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Selective or arbitrary government action could materially adversely affect our business and operations in CEE. Many commercial laws and regulations in CEE are relatively new and have been subject to limited interpretation. As a result, their application can be unpredictable. Government authorities have a high 32 Table of Contents degree of discretion in Russia, Ukraine and other CEE countries and have at times exercised their discretion in ways that may be perceived as selective or arbitrary, and sometimes in a manner that is seen as being influenced by political or commercial considerations. These governments also have the power, in certain circumstances, to interfere with the performance of, nullify or terminate contracts. Selective or arbitrary actions have included withdrawal of licenses, sudden and unexpected tax audits, criminal prosecutions and civil actions. Federal and local government entities have also used common defects in documentation as pretexts for court claims and other demands to invalidate and/or to void transactions, apparently for political purposes. In this environment, our competitors could receive preferential treatment from the government, potentially giving them a competitive advantage. Government officials may apply contradictory or ambiguous laws or regulations in ways that could materially adversely affect our business and operations in CEE. We cannot assure you that regulators, judicial authorities or third parties in Russia, Ukraine and other CEE countries will not challenge our compliance (including that of our subsidiaries) with applicable laws, decrees and regulations. Selective or arbitrary government action could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts in CEE countries where we provide services to the local governments. Any failure to comply with applicable local laws, regulations and procedures could result in contract termination, damage to our reputation, price or fee reductions or suspension or debarment from contracting with the government, each of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, governments may revise existing contract rules and regulations or adopt new contract rules and regulations at any time and for any reason. Any of these changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or renew or enforce contracts under which we currently provide services. Any new contracting methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement, which could materially adversely affect our business and operations in the CEE. Changes in the tax system in CEE countries or arbitrary or unforeseen application of existing rules could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. There have been significant changes to the taxation systems in CEE countries in recent years as the authorities have gradually replaced legislation regulating the application of major taxes such as corporate income tax, VAT, corporate property tax and other taxes with new legislation. Tax authorities in CEE countries, including Russia and Ukraine, have also been aggressive in their interpretation of tax laws and their many ambiguities, as well as in their enforcement and collection activities. Technical violations of contradictory laws and regulations, many of which are relatively new and have not been subject to extensive application or interpretation, may lead to penalties. High-profile companies may be particularly vulnerable to aggressive application of unclear requirements. Many companies must negotiate their tax bills with tax inspectors who may demand higher taxes than applicable law appears to provide. Our tax liability may become greater than the estimated amount that we have expensed to date and paid or accrued on our balance sheets, particularly if the tax benefits we receive in Russia are revised or removed. Any additional tax liability, as well as any unforeseen changes in tax laws, could materially adversely affect our future results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. The Russian Federation intends to ratify the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters (the "Convention") developed by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), which the Russian Federation signed in November 2011. If ratified, it will enable Russian tax authorities to obtain certain information relating to taxation matters from a number of countries, including certain offshore jurisdictions (however, Cyprus is not yet a party to this Convention), and to participate in simultaneous tax examinations and assistance in recovery of tax claims. In addition, the Russian Federation is in the process of revising its bilateral treaties on 33 Table of Contents avoidance of double taxation by including or expanding the provisions on exchange of information and anti-abuse of treaty. For example, on February 28, 2012 the Russian President signed the law on ratification of the Protocol (the "Protocol") to the double taxation treaty entered into between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Cyprus, dated December 5, 1998. The Protocol became effective on April 2, 2012 and applies to taxes due as of January 1, 2013. The Protocol also amended provisions on exchange of information in line with the latest OECD standards. In its decision No. 138-O dated July 25, 2001, the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation introduced a concept of "a taxpayer acting in bad faith" without clearly stipulating the criteria for it. Furthermore, on October 12, 2006, the Plenum of the Supreme Commercial Court of the Russian Federation issued Ruling No. 53, formulating a concept of an "unjustified tax benefit". These concepts have not been defined in Russian tax law. Nonetheless, these concepts have been widely used by the tax authorities to deny the taxpayer's right to use certain tax benefits prescribed in the tax law, or to rely on certain provisions of the tax law. Tax authorities and courts often exercise significant discretion in interpreting these concepts in a manner that is unfavorable to taxpayers. In practice, when challenging the tax benefits applied by a taxpayer tax authorities often argue that the taxpayer may receive an "unjustified tax benefit" by executing contractual relationships with the counterparties acting "in a bad faith" (so-called "mala-fide" taxpayers). Although we use our best efforts to ensure that our counterparties are bona fide taxpayers, there may be a risk that tax authorities may take a different view interpret the relationship with our counterparties in a different manner, challenge applicable tax advantages and incentives, and impose extra taxes, fines and late payment penalties, which could materially affect our business. In its Resolution No. 57 "On certain issues arising upon application by Commercial Courts of Part One of the Tax Code of the Russian Federation," dated July 30, 2013,, the Plenum of the Supreme Commercial Court of the Russian Federation determined that in case of a failure of tax agents in the Russian Federation to withhold taxes from sums to be paid to a foreign company, such taxes and penalties may be collected at the expense of these tax agents. The Supreme Commercial Court grounds this position referring to the fact that generally in this case foreign companies are not registered with Russian tax authorities and, therefore, it is impossible to maintain their tax administration. As a result of the foregoing, the magnitude of the claims made by the Russian tax authorities may rise significantly because the tax authorities may impose additional taxes and penalties, which was not the case prior to these pronouncements by the Supreme Commercial Court of Russian Federation. Following the adoption of the Federal law, 2013 No. 134-FZ, dated June 28, 2013, "On the introduction of amendments to certain legislative acts of the Russian Federation regarding countering illegal financial operations," the list of the legal entities from which underpaid taxes may be recovered in court has been expanded significantly. In particular, underpaid taxes may be sought by tax authorities in court from dependent (affiliated) entities of such underpaying taxpayers to which the money was transferred or other property was provided by such taxpayers (including when the transfer of money was made through interconnected operations by legal entities which are not dependent (affiliated) entities) or from legal entities recognized by courts as otherwise affiliated with the taxpayer that has a tax deficiency. As a result of these amendments, there is an increased risk that in tax disputes many legal entities of one group may be involved, which could result in a material adverse effect on such entities' businesses. On January 9, 2013, the Supreme Commercial Court of the Russian Federation issued Ruling No. 14828/12 "On transfer of the case for the consideration of the Presidium of the Supreme Commercial Court of the Russian Federation." At issue was the registration of immovable property in the name of an offshore company. The panel of judges ruled that, in the context of a court proceeding, if a party to the proceeding is an offshore company, the other party may be disadvantaged as a result of lack of transparency of information pertaining to the offshore company. Therefore, the judges ruled that any evidence produced by the offshore company can be accepted by the court only if the beneficial 34 Table of Contents ownership information of the offshore company is disclosed. The final outcome of this litigation is still pending. However, the arguments stated by the judges in this ruling reflect the tendency of Russian courts to apply new, non-formalistic approach to transactions involving foreign and offshore structures. As a consequence, it could not be ruled out that many transactions, and tax obligations of parties to such transactions, which were previously entered into by offshore companies, could be reconsidered by the Russian courts. On December 12, 2013, the Russian President included in his annual address to the Russian Federal Assembly a message aiming at introducing the so-called "de-offshorization" program designed to combat tax avoidance and ensure transparency of transactions for tax purposes. On May 27, 2014, a draft law supporting the "de-offshorization" program was published and currently introduces (i) the CFC rules ("CFC Rules"), according to which in certain circumstances undistributed profits of foreign legal entities and "structures" (such as trusts, funds or partnerships) domiciled in certain jurisdictions, which are owned or controlled by Russian tax residents (legal entities or individuals) shall be subject to taxation in Russia; (ii) the concept of tax residency for legal entities, under which a foreign legal entity could be subjected to Russian tax residency; and (iii) beneficial ownership concept in order to clarify the definition of the "beneficial owner" for international taxation purposes, into the Russian Tax Code. The CFC Rules have not been fully developed; however, they are scheduled to become effective on January 1, 2015, when adopted. Further, a new draft law introducing a concept of "anti-abuse" to the Russian Tax Code, was submitted to the lower chamber of the Russian parliament on May 23, 2014. The draft law defines "abuse" as carrying out activities and transactions or actions (failure to act) with the main purpose to avoid entirely or partially tax liabilities or obtaining a tax refund (credit). No assurance can be currently given as to the exact nature of these amendments, their potential interpretation by tax authorities and the possible impact on us. We cannot rule out the possibility that, as a result of the introduction of changes to the Russian tax legislation, certain of our companies established outside of Russia may be deemed to be Russian tax residents, subject to all applicable Russian taxes. In January 2011, Ukraine enacted a new tax code (the "Tax Code"). The Tax Code aims to create a comprehensive legal framework for tax reform and provide for a wide range of changes to the existing tax system in the areas of tax collection and administration. There can be no assurance, however, that the adoption of the Tax Code will have a positive effect on the Ukrainian tax system, in which differing opinions between, and within, government ministries regarding legal interpretations of tax regulations often create uncertainties and areas of conflict. Tax declarations or returns, together with other matters of legal compliance, such as customs and currency control matters, are subject to review and investigation by a number of authorities, which may impose fines, penalties and interest charges for noncompliance. These circumstances generally create tax risks in Ukraine that are more significant than those typically found in countries with more developed tax systems. The tax systems in the CEE countries in which we operate impose additional burdens and costs on our operations in such countries, and complicate our tax planning and related business decisions. Furthermore, these tax systems have historically been complicated by contradictions in the respective tax legislation. These uncertainties could result in a greater than expected tax burden and potentially exposes us to significant fines and penalties and enforcement measures, despite our best efforts at compliance. These factors raise the risk of a sudden imposition of arbitrary or onerous taxes on our operations in these countries. This could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 35 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries established outside of Russia may be exposed to taxation in Russia. The Russian Tax Code contains the concept of a permanent establishment in Russia as a means for taxing foreign legal entities which carry on regular entrepreneurial activities in Russia beyond preparatory and auxiliary activities. The Russian double tax treaties with other countries also contain a similar concept. If a foreign company is treated as having a permanent establishment in Russia, it would be subject to Russian taxation in a manner broadly similar to the taxation of a Russian legal entity, but only to the extent of the amount of the foreign company's income that is attributable to the company's permanent establishment in Russia. However, the practical application of the concept of a permanent establishment under Russian domestic law is not well developed and foreign companies having even limited operations in Russia, which would not normally satisfy the conditions for creating a permanent establishment under international norms, may be at risk of being treated as having a permanent establishment in Russia and hence being liable to Russian taxation. Having a permanent establishment in Russia may also lead to other adverse tax implications, including having to challenge a reduced withholding tax rate on dividends under an applicable double tax treaty, a potential effect on VAT and property tax obligations. There is also a risk that penalties could be imposed by the tax authorities for failure to register a permanent establishment with the Russian tax authorities. Recent events in Russia suggest that the tax authorities may be more actively seeking to investigate and assert whether foreign entities operate through a permanent establishment in Russia. Any such taxes or penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and the results of operations. We may be exposed to liability for actions taken by our subsidiaries. In certain cases we may be jointly and severally liable for obligations of our subsidiaries. We may also incur secondary liability and, in certain cases, liability to creditors for obligations of our subsidiaries in certain instances involving bankruptcy or insolvency. In particular, Russian law generally provides that shareholders in a Russian joint stock company or participants in a limited liability company are not liable for the obligations of such a company and bear only the risk of loss of their investment. This may not be the case, however, when an effective parent company is capable of determining decisions made by its effective subsidiary. The effective parent bears joint and several liabilities for transactions concluded by the effective subsidiary, in carrying out business decisions if the effective parent gives binding instructions to the effective subsidiary and the right of the effective parent to give binding instructions is set out in the charter of the effective subsidiary or in a contract between those entities. Further, an effective parent is secondarily liable for an effective subsidiary's debts if the effective subsidiary becomes insolvent or bankrupt as a result of the action or inaction of the effective parent. In these instances, the other shareholders of the effective subsidiary may claim compensation for the effective subsidiary's losses from the effective parent that caused the effective subsidiary to take action or fail to take action, knowing that such action or failure to take action would result in losses. We could be found to be the effective parent of the subsidiaries, in which case we could become liable for their debts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or prospects. Our CEE subsidiaries can be forced into liquidation on the basis of formal noncompliance with certain legal requirements. We operate in CEE countries primarily through locally organized subsidiaries. Certain provisions of the laws of CEE countries may allow a court to order liquidation of a locally organized legal entity on the basis of its formal noncompliance with certain requirements during formation, reorganization or during its operations. 36 Table of Contents Russian corporate law, Ukrainian corporate law and Romanian corporate law require liquidation of a company if its net assets fall below a certain threshold and, in case of Romania, it does not take remedial steps. For example, under Russian corporate law, negative net assets calculated on the basis of the Russian accounting standards as of the end of the year following the second or any subsequent year of a company's existence can serve as a basis for creditors to accelerate their claims and to demand payment of damages, as well as for a court to order the liquidation of the company upon a claim by governmental authorities. Many Russian companies have negative net assets due to a very low historical value of property, plant and equipment reflected on their Russian accounting standards balance sheets. However, their solvency (defined as their ability to pay debts as they come due) has not been otherwise adversely affected by such negative net assets. There are cases when courts have ordered mandatory liquidation of a company based on its negative net assets, though such company had continued to fulfil its obligations and had net assets in excess of the required minimum at the time of liquidation. There have also been cases in CEE countries in which formal deficiencies in the establishment process of a legal entity or noncompliance with provisions of law have been used by courts as a basis for liquidation of a legal entity. Weaknesses in the legal systems of CEE countries create an uncertain legal environment, which makes the decisions of a court or a governmental authority difficult to predict. If involuntary liquidation of any of our subsidiaries were to occur, such liquidation could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to our Class A ordinary shares The price of our Class A ordinary shares has fluctuated significantly and may continue to be volatile Following our initial public offering, the price of our Class A ordinary shares has ranged from a high of $43.56 to a low of $18.55. Some of the factors that have caused or may cause the market price of our Class A ordinary shares to fluctuate include: • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • geopolitical instability in some locations where we operate, such as Ukraine and Russia; • failure to develop or deliver our services as expected; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • successes by our competitors; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt; • sales of large blocks of our Class A ordinary shares; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant services, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; • regulatory developments in Russia, Ukraine, Romania or elsewhere; • litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; • additions or departures of key personnel; • investors' general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; • our ability to forecast revenue and control our costs; and 37 Table of Contents • changes in regulatory and other dynamics. In addition, if the market for shares in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences price and volume fluctuation or a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our Class A ordinary shares could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our share price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. The dual class structure of our ordinary shares has the effect of concentrating voting control with certain shareholders who held our shares prior to our IPO, including one of our directors and our chief executive officer, and limiting the ability of our other shareholders to influence corporate matters. Each of our Class B ordinary shares has ten votes per share, and each of our Class A ordinary shares, which is the class of shares offered hereby, has one vote per share. Shareholders who hold Class B ordinary shares together beneficially own shares representing approximately 96.5%of the voting power of our outstanding shares as of March 31, 2014.Consequently, the holders of Class B ordinary shares collectively will continue to be able to control all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval even if their share ownership were to decrease to less than 50% of the outstanding ordinary shares. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters for the foreseeable future, and, as a result, the market price of our Class A ordinary shares could be adversely affected. Future transfers by holders of Class B ordinary shares will generally result in those shares converting to Class A ordinary shares, which will have the effect, over time, of increasing the relative voting power of those holders of Class B ordinary shares who retain their shares in the long term. The significant share ownership position of IBS Group limits the ability of our shareholders to influence corporate matters. IBS Group Holding Limited, our controlling shareholder ("IBS Group") beneficially owns 94.5% of our outstanding Class B ordinary shares and controls 91.5% of our voting power as of June 30, 2014. As a result of this concentration of share ownership, IBS Group will have sufficient voting power to effectively control all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval. These matters include: • the composition of our board of directors; • approving or rejecting a legal merger, demerger or other business combination; and • amending our Amended Memorandum and Articles of Association, which govern the rights attached to our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our ordinary shares. The interests of IBS Group may not always coincide with the interests of our other shareholders. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our Class A ordinary shares, the price of our Class A ordinary shares could decline. The trading market for our Class A ordinary shares relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. The price of our Class A ordinary shares could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our Class A ordinary shares or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. 38 Table of Contents We have taken advantage of NYSE's "controlled company" exemption from certain corporate governance requirements to a limited extent, and therefore, our shareholders will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. As a result of the number of shares beneficially owned by IBS Group, we are eligible to take advantage of the "controlled company" exemption under NYSE's corporate governance rules. A "controlled company" is a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual or group of shareholders. Pursuant to the "controlled company" exemption, a company is not required to comply with the requirements of having a nominating and corporate governance committee and a compensation committee, each of which is composed entirely of independent directors, has a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities, and is subject to an annual performance evaluation. See "ITEM 6.Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Board Practices—Board Committees." We currently rely on this exemption only to the extent necessary to permit Anatoly Karachinskiy and Glen Granovsky to serve on our compensation committee, even though they do not satisfy NYSE's definition of an "independent director", and to avoid having a nominating and governance committee. If available to us, we may elect to use the controlled company exemption more broadly in the future. If we do so, you will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. We are not subject to the supervision of the British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission and so our shareholders are not protected by any regulatory inspections in the British Virgin Islands. We are not an entity subject to any regulatory supervision in the British Virgin Islands by the Financial Services Commission. As a result, shareholders are not protected by any regulatory supervision or inspections by any regulatory agency in the British Virgin Islands and we are not required to observe any restrictions in respect of its conduct save as disclosed in this annual report or our Amended Memorandum and Articles of Association. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NYSE, we may in the future elect to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NYSE requirements. We have elected to apply the corporate governance rules of the NYSE applicable to controlled companies, with the exception of maintaining an internal audit function, even though, as a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to follow the corporate governance practices of our home country, the British Virgin Islands, instead of these requirements. Nevertheless, we may in the future follow home country corporate governance practices instead of some or all of the NYSE's requirements, including in the event we are no longer eligible for the "controlled company" exemption. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NYSE requirements must submit to the NYSE in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer's home country certifying that the issuer's practices are not prohibited by the home country's laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed instead of any such requirement. Certain corporate governance requirements are not reflected in the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004 (as amended from time to time) (the "BVI Act") or other British Virgin Islands law, such as the requirements to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive issuances of shares, including the sale of our Class A ordinary shares in below market private placement transactions if greater than 20% of our pre-transaction issued and outstanding shares are sold, or are subject to different approval requirements, such as in connection with the establishment or amendment of equity compensation plans. Moreover, the BVI Act does not require the implementation of a nominating committee or establishment of a formal director nomination process, the formation of an audit committee or if such a committee is formed that it have any specific composition, that a board of 39 Table of Contents directors consists of a majority of independent directors or that independent directors be involved in the determination of executive compensation. See "ITEM 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Corporate governance practices." Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under the NYSE's corporate governance rules. Furthermore, as a foreign private issuer, we will be exempt from the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act related to the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders will be exempt from the reporting and short swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we will not be required under the Exchange Act to file annual, quarterly and current reports and financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission as frequently or as promptly as domestic companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. We are an "emerging growth company" with reduced reporting requirements that may make our Class A ordinary shares less attractive to investors. We are an "emerging growth company", as defined in the JOBS Act, and take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are generally applicable to public companies. For so long as we remain an "emerging growth company", we will not be subject to the provision of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that requires that our independent registered public accounting firm provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This may increase the risk that we will fail to detect and remedy any weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. It is also possible that investors may generally find our Class A ordinary shares less attractive due to our status as an "emerging growth company" and our more limited disclosure. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect the price and liquidity of our Class A ordinary shares. We may take advantage of these disclosure exemptions until we are no longer an "emerging growth company". We will cease to be an "emerging growth company" upon the earliest of: • the last day of our fiscal year in which June 25, 2018 falls; • the last day of our fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues are $1 billion or more; • the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt securities; or • the last day of any fiscal year in which the market value of our Class A ordinary shares held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. or foreign judgment against us, our directors and officers named in this annual report outside the U.S., or to assert U.S. securities laws claims outside of the U.S. Almost all of our assets are located outside of the United States. A majority of our directors and officers are nationals or residents of jurisdictions other than the United States and a substantial portion of their assets are located in Russia, Ukraine and other CEE countries. As a result, it may be difficult for a shareholder to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons, or to enforce against us, or them, judgments obtained in U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state therein. Additionally, it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in actions originally instituted outside of the U.S. Foreign courts may refuse to hear a U.S. securities law claim because foreign courts may not be the most appropriate forums in which to bring such a claim. Even if a foreign court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that the law of the jurisdiction in which the foreign court resides, and not U.S. law, is applicable to the claim. Further, if U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process, and certain matters of 40 Table of Contents procedure would still be governed by the law of the jurisdiction in which the foreign court resides. Additionally, although arbitration awards are generally enforceable in CIS countries, judgments obtained in the U.S. or in other foreign courts, including those with respect to U.S. federal securities law claims, may not be enforceable in many CIS countries including Russia. A foreign court judgment may be recognized and enforced in Ukraine only on the basis of an international treaty to which Ukraine is a party providing for enforcement of such judgments, and then only in accordance with the terms of such treaty. Ukraine is a party to more than 20 mutual legal assistance treaties in civil matters (mostly with CIS and former socialist countries) and, by way of legal succession, a party to nine mutual legal assistance treaties of the former USSR. However, while Ukraine does have such treaties in place with several EU countries, it is not a party to mutual legal assistance treaties in civil matters with the United States, Canada, the UK, Germany and France. As a result, there are no international treaties that could be relied upon to enforce in Ukraine a civil judgment rendered in those countries. In the absence of an international treaty providing for enforcement of judgments, the courts of Ukraine may only recognize or enforce a foreign court judgment on the basis of the principle of reciprocity, which, unless proven otherwise, is deemed to exist in relations between Ukraine and the country where the judgment was rendered. At the same time, the principle of reciprocity is a relatively new and undeveloped concept in Ukrainian legislation, and there is no official interpretation or established court practice on the application of the principle of reciprocity. Therefore, it is possible that a U.S. or other foreign court judgment issued in a country, which has no mutual legal assistance treaty with Ukraine, could be refused recognition and/or enforcement in Ukraine, and the parties would have to re-litigate the dispute in Ukrainian courts. In addition, the lack of practice and varying approaches towards recognition and enforcement in Ukraine of foreign court judgments potentially make such recognition and enforcement problematic, if at all possible. In Romania, foreign civil and commercial judgments issued by courts of a non-EU member state may be recognized and enforced only if certain conditions are met, the existence of a bilateral instrument or agreement providing for the mutual recognition of the legal effects of civil judgments being seen as an important facilitator for that. No such agreement or instrument is currently in place between Romania and the United States. As a result of the difficulty associated with enforcing a judgment against us, you may not be able to collect any damages awarded by either a U.S. or foreign court. We do not intend to pay regular dividends for the foreseeable future. Our investors should not rely on an investment in our Class A ordinary shares to provide dividend income. Although we have declared and paid dividends in prior years, we do not intend to declare or pay regular dividends to holders of our Class A ordinary shares for the foreseeable future, and any future credit facility may contain terms prohibiting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on our Class A ordinary shares. While we currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business, we may, by a resolution of the board of directors, authorize a special one-time dividend or other form of distribution to our shareholders at such time and in such amount as the board of directors determines to be appropriate and in the best interest of the Company. Any payment of dividends in the future would be at the discretion of our board and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and business opportunities, strategic plans of the Company, the restrictions in our debt agreements, and other considerations that our board deems relevant. As a result, if we do not pay dividends, capital appreciation, if any, of our Class A ordinary shares will be investors' sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their Class A ordinary shares after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment. Investors seeking annual cash dividends should not purchase our Class A ordinary shares. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and their distribution of funds to us, primarily in the form of dividends. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions may be subject to statutory restrictions and retained earnings criteria, and is 41 Table of Contents contingent upon the cash flow and earnings of those subsidiaries. For example, Russian law prohibits declaration and payment of dividends by a Russian company if such company's net assets' value is lower than its charter capital or will become lower than its charter capital as a result of declaration or distribution of dividends. These restrictions could reduce the amount of distributions that we receive from our subsidiaries which, in turn, would restrict our ability to pay dividends. According to Romanian law, if the company's net assets are less than its subscribed shares, the shares should be adjusted accordingly before any distribution of dividends can be declared. In the past, we have declared and paid dividends, including with respect to the years ended March 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013. Any future determination regarding the reservation of part of the profits and distributions to shareholders will depend on a range of factors, including the availability of distributable profits, our liquidity and financial position, restrictions imposed by our financing arrangements, tax considerations, planned acquisitions, strategic plans of the Company and other relevant factors. Provisions in our organizational documents may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party. Our Amended Memorandum and Articles of Association contain a number of provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions also may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for their ordinary shares. These provisions include, among others: • a dual class ordinary share structure for seven years following the completion our initial public offering; • our board of directors' ability to issue, from time to time, one or more classes of preferred shares and, with respect to each such class, to fix the terms thereof by resolution; • restrictions on the ability of shareholders to call meetings and bring proposals before meetings; • elimination of the ability of shareholders to act by written consent; • the requirement of the affirmative vote of two-thirds or more of the shares entitled to vote to amend certain provisions of our Amended Memorandum and Articles of Association; • a requirement of the affirmative vote of two-thirds or more of the shares entitled to vote on special matters such as mergers or acquisitions; and • the ability of directors in their absolute discretion to decline to register or delay the registration of any transfer of shares without assigning any reason. These provisions of our Amended Memorandum and Articles of Association could discourage potential takeover attempts and reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for our Class A ordinary shares in the future, which could reduce the market price of our Class A ordinary shares. For more information, see "ITEM 10. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association." As the rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have fewer protections as a shareholder. Our corporate affairs will be governed by our Amended Memorandum and Articles of Association, the BVI Act and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are to a large extent governed by the BVI Act and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The common law of the British Virgin Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the British Virgin Islands as well as from English 42 Table of Contents common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the British Virgin Islands. The rights of shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in some jurisdictions in the U.S. In particular, the British Virgin Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the U.S., and some states (such as Delaware) have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, British Virgin Islands law does not make a distinction between public and private companies and some of the protections and safeguards (such as statutory pre-emption rights, save to the extent that they are expressly provided for in the Amended Memorandum and Articles of Association) that investors may expect to find in relation to a public company are not provided for under British Virgin Islands law. As a result of all of the above, holders of our Class A ordinary shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by our management, directors or major shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. company. For a discussion of significant differences between the provisions of the BVI Act and the laws applicable to companies incorporated in the U.S. and their shareholders, see 'ITEM 10. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association." Shareholders in British Virgin Islands companies may not be able to initiate shareholder derivative actions, thereby depriving a shareholder of the ability to protect their interests. While statutory provisions do exist in British Virgin Islands law for derivative actions to be brought in certain circumstances, shareholders in British Virgin Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the U.S. The circumstances in which any such action may be brought, and the procedures and defenses that may be available in respect to any such action, may result in the rights of shareholders of a British Virgin Islands company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the U.S. Accordingly, shareholders may have fewer alternatives available to them if they believe that corporate wrongdoing has occurred. The British Virgin Islands courts are also unlikely to: (i) recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts in the U.S. based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities law; or (ii) to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the British Virgin Islands of judgments obtained in the U.S., although the courts of the British Virgin Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce the non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. The laws of the British Virgin Islands provide little protection for minority shareholders, so minority shareholders will have little or no recourse if the shareholders are dissatisfied with the conduct of our affairs. Under the laws of the British Virgin Islands, there is little statutory protection of minority shareholders other than the provisions of the BVI Act dealing with shareholder remedies. The principal protection under statutory law is that shareholders may bring an action to enforce the BVI Act or the constituent documents of the corporation, the Amended Memorandum and Articles of Association. Shareholders are entitled to have the affairs of the company conducted in accordance with the BVI Act and the Amended Memorandum and Articles of Association. There are common law rights for the protection of shareholders that may be invoked, largely dependent on English company law, since the common law of the British Virgin Islands is limited. Under the general rule pursuant to English company law known as the rule in Foss v. Harbottle, a court will generally refuse to interfere with the management of a company at the insistence of a minority of its shareholders who express dissatisfaction with the conduct of the company's affairs by the majority or the board of directors. However, every shareholder is entitled to have the affairs of the company conducted properly according to British Virgin Islands law and the company's constituent documents. 43 Table of Contents As such, if those who control the company have persistently disregarded the requirements of company law or the provisions of the company's Amended Memorandum and Articles of Association, then the courts may grant relief. Generally, the areas in which the courts will intervene are the following: (1) an act complained of which is outside the scope of the authorized business or is illegal or not capable of ratification by the majority; (2) acts that constitute a "fraud on the minority" where the wrongdoers control the company; (3) acts that infringe or are about to infringe on the personal rights of the shareholders, such as the right to vote; and (4) where the company has not complied with provisions requiring the approval of a majority of shareholders, which are more limited than the rights afforded to minority shareholders under the laws of many states in the United States. 