ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay distributions on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Also, please read “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” in this prospectus supplement. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. Risks Inherent in Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of at least $0.4375 per unit, or $1.75 per unit per year. The minimum quarterly distribution is an amount that must be paid to holders of our common units, including any arrearages, before any distributions may be made to holders of our subordinated units, to the extent that any distributions are made. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • demand for motor fuel products in the markets we serve and the margin per gallon we earn selling and distributing motor fuel; • the industries in which we operate are subject to seasonal trends, which may cause our operating costs to fluctuate, affecting our earnings; • severe storms could adversely affect our business by damaging our suppliers’ operations or lowering our sales volumes; • competition from other companies that sell motor fuel products in our targeted market areas; • the inability to identify and acquire suitable sites or to negotiate acceptable leases for such sites; • the potential inability to obtain adequate financing to fund our expansion; • the level of our operating costs, including payments to LGC; and • prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors such as: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the restrictions contained in our credit agreements; • our debt service requirements; • the cost of acquisitions; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to borrow under our credit agreements to make distributions to our unitholders; and • the amount, if any, of cash reserves established by our General Partner in its discretion. 15 Table of Contents We do not have a legal obligation to pay quarterly distributions at our minimum quarterly distribution rate or at any other rate. There is no guarantee that we will distribute quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders in any quarter. See Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Cash Distribution Policy. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making cash distributions, even during periods when we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income for financial accounting purposes. The industries in which we operate are subject to seasonal trends, which may affect our earnings and ability to make distributions. We experience more demand for motor fuel during the late spring and summer months than during the fall and winter. Travel, recreational activities and construction are typically higher in these months in certain of the geographic areas in which we operate, increasing the demand for motor fuel that we distribute. Therefore, our revenues are typically higher in the second and third quarters of our fiscal year. As a result, our results from operations may vary widely from period to period, affecting our earnings and ability to make cash distributions. Decreases in consumer spending, travel and tourism in the areas we serve could adversely impact our wholesale distribution business. In the retail motor fuel industry, customer traffic is generally driven by consumer preferences and spending trends, growth rates for automobile and commercial truck traffic and trends in travel, tourism and weather. Changes in economic conditions generally or in our targeted markets specifically could adversely impact consumer spending patterns and travel and tourism in our markets, which could have a material adverse effect on business, results of operations and our ability to make distributions. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders are influenced by changes in demand for, and changes in the prices of, motor fuels, which could adversely affect our margins and our customers’ financial condition, contract performance and trade credit. Financial and operating results from our wholesale distribution and retail operations are influenced by price volatility and demand for motor fuels. When prices for motor fuels rise, some of our wholesale customers may have insufficient credit to purchase supply from us at their historical purchase volumes, and their retail customers or our retail customers, in turn, may reduce consumption, thereby reducing demand for product. Furthermore, when prices are increasing, we may be unable to fully pass our additional costs to our wholesale or retail customers, resulting in lower margins for us which could adversely affect our results of operations. Both the wholesale motor fuel distribution and the retail motor fuel industries are characterized by intense competition and fragmentation and our failure to effectively compete could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and ability to make distributions. The market for distribution of wholesale motor fuel and the sale of retail motor fuel are highly competitive and fragmented, which results in narrow margins. We have numerous competitors, some of which may have significantly greater resources and name recognition than we do. We rely on our ability to provide value added reliable services and to control our operating costs to maintain our margins and competitive position. If we were to fail to maintain the quality of our services, wholesale customers could choose alternative distribution sources and retail customers could purchase from other retailers, each decreasing our margins. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that major integrated oil companies will not decide to distribute their own products in direct competition with us or that large wholesale customers will not attempt to buy directly from the major integrated oil companies. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and our ability to make distributions. 16 Table of Contents We are exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by our customers and suppliers. A tightening of credit in the financial markets or an increase in interest rates may make it more difficult for wholesale customers and suppliers to obtain financing and, depending on the degree to which it occurs, there may be a material increase in the nonpayment or other nonperformance by our customers and suppliers. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with these third parties. A material increase in the nonpayment or other nonperformance by our wholesale customers and/or suppliers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Historical prices for motor fuel have been volatile and significant changes in such prices in the future may adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Crude oil and domestic wholesale motor fuel markets are volatile. General political conditions, acts of war or terrorism and instability in oil producing regions, particularly in the Middle East, Russia, Africa and South America, could significantly impact crude oil supplies and wholesale motor fuel costs. Significant increases and volatility in wholesale motor fuel costs could result in significant increases in the retail price of motor fuel products and in lower margin per gallon. Increases in the retail price of motor fuel products could impact consumer demand for motor fuel. This volatility makes it extremely difficult to predict the impact future wholesale cost fluctuations will have on our operating results and financial condition. Dramatic increases in crude oil prices squeeze fuel margins because fuel costs typically increase faster than we are able to pass along the increases to customers. Higher fuel prices trigger higher credit card expenses, because credit card fees are calculated as a percentage of the transaction amount, not as a percentage of gallons sold. A significant change in any of these factors could materially impact our customer’s motor fuel gallon volumes, gross profit and overall customer traffic, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Energy efficiency and new technology may reduce the demand for our motor fuel and adversely affect our operating results. Increased conservation and technological advances, including the development of improved gas mileage vehicles and the increased usage of electrically powered cars have adversely affected the demand for motor fuel. Future conservation measures or technological advances in fuel efficiency might reduce demand and adversely affect our operating results. We depend on five principal suppliers for the majority of our motor fuel. A disruption in supply or a change in our relationship with any one of them could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash available for distribution. ExxonMobil, BP, Motiva, Chevron and Valero collectively supplied over 90% of our motor fuel purchases in 2013. Our wholesale business purchased approximately 43%, 25%, 15%, 5% and 4% of its respective motor fuel from ExxonMobil (a supplier of ours since 2002), BP (a supplier of ours since 2009), Motiva (a supplier of ours since 2004), Chevron (a supplier of ours since 2012) and Valero (a supplier of ours since 2003), respectively. A change of motor fuel suppliers, a disruption in supply or a significant change in our pricing with any of these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash available for distribution. We rely on our suppliers to provide trade credit terms to adequately fund our on-going operations. Our business is impacted by the availability of trade credit to fund motor fuel purchases. An actual or perceived downgrade in our liquidity or operations could cause our suppliers to seek credit support in the form of additional collateral, limit the extension of trade credit or otherwise materially modify their payment terms. Any material changes in the payments terms, including payment discounts, or availability of trade credit provided by our principal suppliers could impact our liquidity, results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth may be limited. Our ability to grow substantially depends on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in operating surplus per unit. We may be unable to make such accretive acquisitions for any of the following reasons: • we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts for them; • we are unable to raise financing for such acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or • we are outbid by competitors. 17 Table of Contents In addition, we may consummate acquisitions, which at the time of consummation we believe will be accretive, but which ultimately may not be accretive. If any of these events occurred, our future growth would be limited. Our success and future growth depends in part on our ability to purchase or lease additional sites. Our acquisition strategy involves risks that may adversely affect our business. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including: • the inability to identify and acquire suitable sites or to negotiate acceptable leases or subleases for such sites; • difficulties in adapting our distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of sites; • performance from the acquired assets and businesses that is below the forecasts we used in evaluating the acquisition; • a significant increase in our indebtedness and working capital requirements; • the inability to timely and effectively integrate the operations of recently acquired businesses or assets, particularly those in new geographic areas or in new lines of business; • the incurrence of substantial unforeseen environmental and other liabilities arising out of the acquired businesses or assets, including liabilities arising from the operation of the acquired businesses or assets prior to our acquisition, for which we are not indemnified or for which the indemnity is inadequate; • competition in our targeted market areas; • customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; and • diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows from our acquisitions and realize other anticipated benefits. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2013, we had $146.3 million outstanding on our existing $324 million revolving credit facility, with the ability to increase our borrowing capacity by an additional $100 million. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity – Long-term Debt” for a discussion of our amended and restated credit facility entered into in March 2014. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • covenants contained in our credit agreement will require us to meet financial tests that may affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business, including possible acquisition opportunities; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; • our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. 18 Table of Contents Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions, such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our new Credit Facility contains operating and financial restrictions that may limit our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit agreement and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our credit agreement may restrict our ability to: • make distributions if any potential default or event of default occurs; • incur additional indebtedness or guarantee other indebtedness; • grant liens or make certain negative pledges; • make certain loans or investments; • make any material change to the nature of our business, including mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; • make capital expenditures in excess of specified levels; • acquire another company; or • enter into a sale-leaseback transaction or sale of assets. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit agreement may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our credit agreement, the debt issued under the credit agreement may become immediately due and payable, and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our credit agreement will be secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit agreement, the lenders could seek to foreclose on such assets. We may not be able to lease sites we own or sub-lease sites we lease on favorable terms and any such failure could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We may lease and/or sub-lease certain sites to Lessee Dealers or to LGO where the rent expense is more than the lease payments. If we are unable to obtain tenants on favorable terms for sites we own or lease, the lease payments we receive may not be adequate to cover our rent expense for leased sites and may not be adequate to ensure that we meet our debt service requirements. We cannot provide any assurance that the margins on our wholesale distribution of motor fuels to these sites will be adequate to off-set unfavorable lease terms. The occurrence of these events could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The operations at sites we own or lease are subject to inherent risk, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions and insurance may not adequately cover any such exposure. The occurrence of a significant event or release that is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash available for distribution. The presence of flammable and combustible products at our sites provides the potential for fires and explosions that could destroy both property and human life. Furthermore, our operations are subject to unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather and other events beyond our control. Motor fuels also have the potential to cause environmental damage if improperly handled or released. If any of these events were to occur, we could incur substantial losses and/or curtailment of related operations because of personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage. 19 Table of Contents We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. We may be unable to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and ability to make distributions to unitholders. We are relying on LGC to indemnify us for any costs or expenses that we incur for environmental liabilities and third-party claims, regardless of when a claim is made, that are based on environmental conditions in existence prior to the closing of the IPO at our predecessor’s sites. To the extent escrow accounts, insurance and/or payments from LGC are not sufficient to cover any such costs or expenses, our business, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. The omnibus agreement provides that LGC must indemnify us for any costs or expenses that we incur for environmental liabilities and third-party claims, regardless of when a claim is made, that are based on environmental conditions in existence prior to the closing of the IPO at our Predecessor Entity’s sites. LGC is the beneficiary of escrow accounts created to cover the cost to remediate certain environmental liabilities. In addition, LGC maintains insurance policies to cover environmental liabilities and/or, where available, participates in state programs that may also assist in funding the costs of environmental liabilities. There are certain sites that were acquired by us in the IPO with existing environmental liabilities that are not covered by escrow accounts, state funds or insurance policies. As of December 31, 2013, LGC had an aggregate of approximately $2.9 million of environmental liabilities on sites acquired by us that are not covered by escrow accounts, state funds or insurance policies. To the extent escrow accounts, insurance and/or payments from LGC are not sufficient to cover any such costs or expenses, our business, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected Our wholesale motor fuel sales are generated under contracts that must be renegotiated or replaced periodically. If we are unable to successfully renegotiate or replace these contracts, then our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our wholesale motor fuel sales are generated under contracts that must be periodically renegotiated or replaced. As these contracts expire, they must be renegotiated or replaced. We may be unable to renegotiate or replace these contracts when they expire, and the terms of any renegotiated contracts may not be as favorable as the contracts they replace. Whether these contracts are successfully renegotiated or replaced is often times subject to factors beyond our control. Such factors include fluctuations in motor fuel prices, counterparty ability to pay for or accept the contracted volumes and a competitive marketplace for the services offered by us. If we cannot successfully renegotiate or replace our contracts or must renegotiate or replace them on less favorable terms, sales from these arrangements could decline and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the product quality specifications of the motor fuel that we distribute and sell. Various federal, state and local agencies have the authority to prescribe specific product quality specifications to the sale of commodities. Our business includes such commodities. Changes in product quality specifications, such as reduced sulfur content in refined petroleum products, or other more stringent requirements for fuels, could reduce our ability to procure product and our sales volume, require us to incur additional handling costs, and/or require the expenditure of capital. If we are unable to procure product or to recover these costs through increased sales, our ability to meet our financial obligations could be adversely affected. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in substantial penalties. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to environmental protection or operational safety that may require significant expenditures or result in liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to underground storage tanks, the release or discharge of regulated materials into the air, water and soil, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, the exposure of persons to regulated materials, and the health and safety of our employees. We believe we are in material compliance with applicable environmental requirements; however, we cannot assure you that violations of these requirements will not occur in the future. We also cannot assure you that we will not be subject to legal actions brought by third parties for actual or alleged violations of or responsibility under environmental laws associated with releases of or exposure to motor fuel products. A violation of, liability under or compliance with these laws or regulations or any future environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Where releases of refined petroleum products, renewable fuels and crude oil have occurred, federal and state laws and regulations require that such releases be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. The costs associated with the investigation and remediation of any such releases, as well as any associated third-party claims, could be substantial, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. 20 Table of Contents New, stricter environmental laws and regulations could significantly increase our costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations regulating environmental matters. The trend in environmental regulation is towards more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. Our business may be adversely affected by increased costs and liabilities resulting from such stricter laws and regulations. We try to anticipate future regulatory requirements that might be imposed and plan accordingly to remain in compliance with changing environmental laws and regulations and to minimize the costs of such compliance. However, there can be no assurances as to the timing and type of such changes in existing laws or the promulgation of new laws or the amount of any required expenditures associated therewith. We depend on transportation providers for the transportation of substantially all of our motor fuel. Thus, a change of providers or a significant change in our relationship could have a material adverse effect on our business. Substantially all of the motor fuel we distribute is transported from refineries to gas stations by third party carriers. A change of transportation providers, a disruption in service or a significant change in our relationship with these transportation carriers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash available for distribution. We rely heavily on our information technology systems to manage our business, and a disruption of these systems or an act of cyber-terrorism could adversely affect our business. We depend on our information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of our business transactions, in particular with respect to our cash management and disbursements, and provide analytical information to management. Our information systems are an essential component of our business, and a serious disruption to our information systems could significantly limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently. These systems are vulnerable to, among other things, damage and interruption from power loss or natural disasters, computer system and network failures, loss of telecommunications services, physical and electronic loss of data, cyber-security breaches or cyber-terrorism, and computer viruses. Any disruption could adversely affect our business. Any terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities, and any global and domestic economic repercussions from terrorist activities and the government’s response could adversely affect our business. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States, the U.S. government has issued warnings that energy infrastructure assets may be future targets of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities and any global and domestic economic repercussions from terrorist activities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. For instance, terrorist activity could lead to increased volatility in prices for motor fuels and other products we sell. Insurance carriers are currently required to offer coverage for terrorist activities as a result of the federal Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, which we refer to as “TRIA.” We purchased this coverage with respect to our property and casualty insurance programs, which resulted in additional insurance premiums. Pursuant to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007, TRIA has been extended through December 31, 2014. Although we cannot determine the future availability and cost of insurance coverage for terrorist acts, we do not expect the availability and cost of such insurance to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash available for distribution to our unitholders. 21 Table of Contents Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Joseph V. Topper, Jr., controls our General Partner which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our General Partner and its affiliates, including the Topper Group, have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders. The Topper Group, including LGC, owns a significant limited partner interest in us and owns and controls our General Partner and has the ability to appoint all of the directors of our General Partner. Although our General Partner has a legal duty to manage in good faith, the executive officers and directors of our General Partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our General Partner in a manner beneficial to its owner, LGC, which is owned solely by Joseph V. Topper, Jr. Furthermore, certain officers of our General Partner are directors or officers of affiliates of our General Partner. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise in the future between us and our unitholders, on the one hand, and our General Partner and its affiliates, including the Topper Group and LGC, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including the Topper Group and LGC, over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others: • our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as the Topper Group, including LGC, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires the Topper Group, including LGC, to pursue a business strategy that favors us; • some officers of our General Partner who will provide services to us will devote time to affiliates of our General Partner and may be compensated for services rendered to such affiliate; • our partnership agreement limits the liability of and reduces fiduciary duties owed by our General Partner and also restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • except in limited circumstances, our General Partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; • our General Partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and the creation, reductions or increases of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders, including distributions on our subordinated units, and to the holders of the incentive distribution rights, as well as the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; • our General Partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus. Such determination can affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders, including distributions on our subordinated units, and to the holders of the incentive distribution rights, as well as the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; • we have entered into lease agreements and a wholesale supply agreement with LGO pursuant to which LGO leases sites from us and operates the retail motor fuel distribution business of our Predecessor Entity. LGO purchases motor fuels from us at a variable rate mark-up; • our General Partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; • our partnership agreement permits us to distribute up to $15 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or the incentive distribution rights; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our General Partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with its affiliates on our behalf; • our General Partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; 22 Table of Contents • our General Partner may exercise its right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; • our General Partner controls the enforcement of obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us; • our General Partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; • the holders of our incentive distribution rights may transfer their incentive distribution rights without unitholder approval; and • Joseph V. Topper, Jr., as the trustee of a trust that owns a majority of our incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to the holders of our incentive distribution rights in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner or the unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to the common unitholders in certain situations. In addition, the Topper Group and its affiliates currently hold substantial interests in other companies that engage in the wholesale motor fuel distribution business and/or own sites. Except as set forth in the omnibus agreement, we may compete directly with entities in which the Topper Group or its affiliates have an interest for acquisition opportunities and potentially will compete with these entities for new business or extensions of the existing services provided by us. The board of directors of our General Partner may modify or revoke our cash distribution policy at any time at its discretion. Our partnership agreement does not require us to pay any distributions at all. The board of directors of our General Partner has adopted a cash distribution policy pursuant to which we intend to distribute quarterly an amount at least equal to the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.4375 per unit on all of our units to the extent we have sufficient cash from our operations after the establishment of reserves and the payment of our expenses. However, the board may change such policy at any time at its discretion and could elect not to pay distributions for one or more quarters. In addition, our New Credit Facility includes certain restrictions on our ability to make distributions. In addition, our partnership agreement does not require us to pay any distributions at all. Accordingly, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the permanence of such a policy in making an investment decision. Any modification or revocation of our cash distribution policy could substantially reduce or eliminate the amounts of distributions to our unitholders. The amount of distributions we make, if any, and the decision to make any distribution at all will be determined by the board of directors of our General Partner, whose interests may differ from those of our common unitholders. Our General Partner has limited duties to our unitholders, which may permit it to favor its own interests or the interests of the Topper Group, including LGC, to the detriment of our common unitholders. Neither we nor our General Partner have any employees and we rely solely on the employees of LGC to manage our business. If our omnibus agreement with LGC is terminated, we may not find suitable replacements to perform management services for us. Neither we nor our General Partner have any employees and we rely solely on LGC to operate our assets. We and our General Partner have entered into an omnibus agreement with LGC pursuant to which LGC performs services for us and our General Partner, including the operation of our wholesale distribution business and our properties. We are subject to the risk that our omnibus agreement will be terminated and no suitable replacement will be found. The liability of LGC is limited under our omnibus agreement and we have agreed to indemnify LGC against certain liabilities, which may expose us to significant expenses. The omnibus agreement provides that we must indemnify LGC for any liabilities incurred by LGC attributable to the operating and administrative services provided to us under the agreement, other than liabilities resulting from LGC’s bad faith or willful misconduct. 23 Table of Contents Our General Partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. Our General Partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements between us and third parties so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our General Partner or its assets. Our General Partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our General Partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our General Partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our General Partner’s fiduciary duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our General Partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. If we distribute a significant portion of our cash available for distribution to our partners, our ability to grow and make acquisitions could be limited. We may determine to distribute a significant portion of our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. In addition, we expect to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. To the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, distributing a significant portion of our cash available for distribution may impair our ability to grow. In addition, if we distribute a significant portion of our cash available for distribution, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their cash available for distribution to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our new credit agreement on our ability to issue additional units, provided there is no default under the credit agreement, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue units ranking senior to the common units. In accordance with Delaware law and the provisions of our partnership agreement, we may issue additional partnership interests that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance by us of units of senior rank may (i) reduce or eliminate the amount of cash available for distribution to our common unitholders; (ii) diminish the relative voting strength of the total common units outstanding as a class; or (iii) subordinate the claims of the common unitholders to our assets in the event of our liquidation. Our partnership agreement replaces our General Partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our units. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate and replace the fiduciary standards to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our General Partner, or otherwise free of fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders. This entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our General Partner may make in its individual capacity include: • how to allocate business opportunities among us and its affiliates; • whether to exercise its call right; • how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns; • whether to exercise its registration rights; • whether to elect to reset target distribution levels; and • whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. 24 Table of Contents Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our units for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: • provides that whenever our General Partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our General Partner, our General Partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity; • provides that our General Partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a General Partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning that it believed that the decision was in the best interest of our partnership; • provides that our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our General Partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • provides that our General Partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is: (1) approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner, although our General Partner is not obligated to seek such approval; or (2) approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our General Partner and its affiliates. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our General Partner must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, taking any action or failing to act, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Our General Partner’s affiliates may compete with us. Our partnership agreement provides that our General Partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our General Partner and those activities incidental to its ownership interest in us. Except as provided in the omnibus agreement, affiliates of our General Partner are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our General Partner, LGO or any of their affiliates, including their executive officers, directors and the Topper Group and LGC. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our General Partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. The Topper Group and LGO are subject to a right of first refusal provision in the omnibus agreement that prohibits them from acquiring any assets or any business having assets that are primarily involved in the wholesale motor fuel distribution or retail gas station operation businesses without first offering such acquisition opportunity to us. However, the omnibus agreement does not prohibit affiliates of our General Partner and LGO, including the Topper Group and LGC, from owning certain assets or engaging in certain businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Conflicts of interest may arise in the future between us and our unitholders, on the one hand, and the affiliates of our General Partner and LGO, including the Topper Group and LGC, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, the Topper Group and LGO may favor their own interests over the interests of our unitholders. 25 Table of Contents Joseph V. Topper, Jr., as a trustee of a trust that owns a majority our incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to the holders of our incentive distribution rights in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. Joseph V. Topper, Jr., as a trustee of a trust that owns a majority our incentive distribution rights, has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and the holders of our incentive distribution rights have received incentive distributions at the highest level to which they are entitled (50%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following such a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If Mr. Topper elects to reset the target distribution levels, the holders of our incentive distribution rights will be entitled to receive a number of common units. The number of common units to be issued to the holders of our incentive distribution rights will equal the number of common units which would have entitled the holders to an aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior quarter equal to the distributions to the holders of our incentive distribution rights on the incentive distribution rights in the prior quarter. It is possible that, Mr. Topper could exercise this reset election at a time when he is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions the holders of our incentive distribution rights receive related to their incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights are transferred to another party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to the holders of our incentive distribution rights in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our General Partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which the common units will trade. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our General Partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our General Partner, including the independent directors, is chosen entirely by Joseph V. Topper, Jr., as a result of his indirect ownership of our General Partner, and not by our unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we will not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders of corporations. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they may not be able to remove our General Partner without its consent. If our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they will have limited ability to remove our General Partner. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding common and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our General Partner. The Topper Group, including LGC, owns approximately 5.00% of our outstanding common units and 90.19% of our subordinated units Also, if our General Partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and no units held by the holders of the subordinated units or their affiliates are voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. Cause is narrowly defined in our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our General Partner liable for acting in bad faith, or in the case of a criminal matter, acting with knowledge that the conduct was criminal, in each case in its capacity as our General Partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business. Our General Partner interest or the control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our General Partner may transfer its General Partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the members of our General Partner to transfer their respective membership interests in our General Partner to a third party. The new members of our General Partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and executive officers of our General Partner with their own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions taken by the board of directors and executive officers of our General Partner. This effectively permits a “change of control” without the vote or consent of the unitholders. 26 Table of Contents Our General Partner has a call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (1) the average of the daily closing price of the common units over the 20 trading days preceding the date three days before notice of exercise of the call right is first mailed and (2) the highest per-unit price paid by our General Partner or any of its affiliates for common units during the 90-day period preceding the date such notice is first mailed. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return or a negative return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Our General Partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our General Partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its call right. If our General Partner exercised its call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. As of December 31, 2013, the Topper Group, including LGC, owns approximately 5.00% of our outstanding common units and 90.19% of our subordinated units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of units (other than upon the conversion of the subordinated units), the Topper Group, including LGC, will own 39.15% of our common units. The market price of our common units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public or private markets, including sales by the Topper Group, LGC or other large holders. As of March 3, 2014, we had 11,097,348 common units and 7,525,000 subordinated units outstanding. At the end of the subordination period, all of the subordinated units will convert into an equal number of common units. Sales by affiliates of our General Partner or other large holders of a substantial number of our common units in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. In addition, we have agreed to provide registration rights to the Topper Group including LGC. Under our partnership agreement and pursuant to a registration rights agreement that we have entered into, our General Partner and its affiliates have registration rights relating to the offer and sale of any units that they hold, subject to certain limitations. We may issue unlimited additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute existing unitholder ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests, including limited partner interests that rank senior to the common units that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank could have the following effects: • our existing unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; • the claims of the common unitholders to our assets in the event of our liquidation may be subordinated; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our General Partner’s discretion in establishing cash reserves may reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. The partnership agreement requires our General Partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. The General Partner may reduce cash available for distribution by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. 27 Table of Contents Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our General Partner, cannot vote on any matter. Restrictions in our credit agreement could limit our ability to pay distributions upon the occurrence of certain events. Our payment of principal and interest on our debt will reduce cash available for distribution on our units. Our credit agreement will limit our ability to pay distributions upon the occurrence of the following events, among others: • failure to pay any principal when due or any interest, fees or other amounts when due; • failure of any representation or warranty to be true and correct in any material respect; • failure to perform or otherwise comply with the covenants in our credit agreement or in other loan documents beyond the applicable notice and grace period; • any default in the performance of any obligation or condition beyond the applicable grace period relating to any other indebtedness of more than $7.5 million; • failure of the lenders to have a perfected first priority security interest in the collateral pledged by any loan party; • the entry of a judgment in excess of $20.0 million, to the extent any payments pursuant to the judgment are not covered by insurance; • a change in management or ownership control; • a violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or “ERISA”; and • a bankruptcy or insolvency event involving us or any of our subsidiaries. Any subsequent refinancing of our debt or any new debt could have similar restrictions. Management fees and cost reimbursements due to our General Partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our General Partner. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will pay LGC the management fee and reimburse our General Partner and LGC for all out-of-pocket third-party expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Our partnership agreement provides that our General Partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. In addition, pursuant to an omnibus agreement, the Topper Group, including LGC, will be entitled to reimbursement for certain expenses that they incur on our behalf. Our partnership agreement does not limit the amount of expenses for which our General Partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our General Partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of cash available to pay distributions to our unitholders. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions and in certain circumstances may be personally liable for the obligations of the partnership. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, or the Delaware Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. 28 Table of Contents It may be determined that the right, or the exercise of the right by the limited partners as a group, to (i) remove or replace our General Partner, (ii) approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or (iii) take other action under our partnership agreement constitutes “participation in the control” of our business. A limited partner that participates in the control of our business within the meaning of the Delaware Act may be held personally liable for our obligations under the laws of Delaware, to the same extent as our General Partner. This liability would extend to persons who transact business with us under the reasonable belief that the limited partner is a General Partner. Neither our partnership agreement nor the Delaware Act specifically provides for legal recourse against our General Partner if a limited partner were to lose limited liability through any fault of our General Partner. The New York Stock Exchange, or “NYSE,” does not require a publicly traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. Our common units are listed on the NYSE. Because we are a publicly traded partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our General Partner’s board of directors. Additionally, while we have established a compensation committee and a nominating and corporate governance committee, the NYSE does not require us as a publicly traded partnership to maintain a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Please read “Management—Management of Lehigh Gas Partners LP.” An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline and a significant increase in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to service our indebtedness. Like all equity investments, an investment in our common units is subject to certain risks. Borrowings under the credit facility will bear interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, such variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make cash distributions. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly traded limited partnership interests. Reduced demand for our common units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. The interest rate on our credit agreement is variable; therefore, we have exposure to movements in interest rates. A significant increase in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to service our indebtedness. The increased cost could make the financing of our business activities more expensive. These added expenses could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Tax Risks Our U.S. federal (and state and local) income tax treatment depends in large part on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and our otherwise not being subject to a material amount of U.S. federal, state and local income or franchise tax. If we were required to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or if we were to otherwise be subject to a material amount of additional entity-level income, franchise or other taxation for U.S. federal, state or local tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. We currently have a subsidiary that is treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes and is subject to entity-level U.S. federal, state and local income and franchise tax. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A publicly traded partnership, such as us, may be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless 90% or more of its gross income for every taxable year it is publicly traded consists of qualifying income. Based on our current operations we believe that we will be able to satisfy this requirement and, thus, be able to be treated as a partnership, rather than a corporation, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, a change in our business, or a change in current law, could also cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other tax matter affecting us. 29 Table of Contents If we were required to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate which, under current law, is a maximum of 35%. We would also likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as either a dividend (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits) and/or as taxable gain after recovery of your U.S. federal income tax basis in your units, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to you. Because a U.S. federal income tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Thus, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to you, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Moreover, we conduct a portion of our operations and business through one or more direct and indirect subsidiaries, including through LGWS, our wholly-owned taxable C-corporation for U.S. federal, state and local income tax purposes. As LGWS is a taxable C corporation for U.S. federal, state and local income tax purposes, it is subject to an entity-level U.S. federal, state and local tax on its taxable income and gain, which is currently mostly associated with the leasing of certain personal property. Thus, the amount of cash that LGWS has available to distribute to us and, thus, the amount of cash that we will then have available to distribute to you, could be reduced. Furthermore, if, for example, the IRS were to successfully assert that LGWS (or any other direct or indirect taxable C corporation subsidiary through which we may operate in the future) has more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation were enacted that increased the U.S. federal, state and/or local corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution to you could be further reduced. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. For example, from time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. One such relatively recent legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will be considered (or reconsidered) or ultimately enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the amount of cash available for distribution to you. In addition, changes in current state and/or local law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states and/or localities. For example, because of widespread state and local government budget deficits, several states and localities are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state and/or local income, franchise and/or other forms of taxation. If any state or locality were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, our cash available for distribution to you would be reduced. A significant amount of our income is attributable to our leasing of real property to LGO. If Lehigh Gas-Ohio Holdings LLC, or “LGO Holdings,” a Delaware limited liability company and the sole member of LGO, were to become related to us for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the real property rents that we receive from LGO would no longer constitute qualifying income and we would likely be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A significant amount of our qualifying income is comprised of real property rents from LGO attributable to the 270 sites that LGO leases from us. In general, any real property rents that we receive from a tenant or sub-tenant of ours in which we, directly or indirectly, own or are treated as owning by reason of the application of certain constructive ownership rules: (a) at least 10% of such tenant’s or sub-tenant’s stock (voting power or value) in the case where such tenant or sub-tenant is a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or (b) an interest of at least 10% of such tenant’s or sub-tenant’s assets or net profits in the case where such tenant or sub-tenant is not a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes (as would be the case with respect to LGO), would not constitute qualifying income. After applying certain constructive ownership rules, we will be treated as owning the 5% interest in the assets and net profits of LGO Holdings that Joseph V. Topper, Jr. actually and constructively own. If we were considered to directly or indirectly own an interest of 10% or more of the assets or net profits of LGO Holdings, then the real property rents that we receive from LGO would no longer constitute qualifying income in which case, based on our current operations, we would likely no longer qualify to be treated as a “partnership” (and instead would be treated as a corporation) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our and LGO Holdings’ governing documents contain transfer restrictions designed to prevent us from being treated as directly or indirectly owning by reason of the application of the constructive ownership rules an interest of 10% or more of LGO Holdings’ assets or net profits. We received an opinion of counsel at, and dated as of, the closing of the IPO that, subject to certain customary exceptions, such transfer restrictions are enforceable under Delaware law, but a court could determine that these restrictions are inapplicable or unenforceable. 30 Table of Contents The U.S. federal (and/or state or local) income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal (and/or state or local) income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. One such relatively recent legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the qualifying income exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, affect or cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us, change the character or treatment of portions of our income or gain and adversely affect an investment in our common units. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will be introduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that results in us becoming subject to either: (a) entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state, local and/or foreign income and/or withholding tax purposes to which we were not subject prior to such enactment, modification or interpretation, and/or (b) an increased amount of any such one or more of such taxes (including as a result of an increase in tax rates), then the minimum quarterly distribution amounts and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted (i.e., reduced) to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the U.S. federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the costs of any contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We have not requested any ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other U.S. federal income tax matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS, which will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our General Partner, will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution. You may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because you will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a partner in us, we will allocate a share of our taxable income and gain to you which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute to you. Thus, you may be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local taxes, on your allocable share of our taxable income and gain even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Tax gain or loss on sale or other taxable disposition of common units could be more or less than the cash that you may receive in such sale or other taxable disposition. If you sell (or otherwise dispose in a taxable disposition) one or more, or all, of your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between your amount realized in such sale or other taxable disposition and your U.S. federal income tax basis in those common units. Because distributions that you receive and the aggregate of our losses and deductions that are allocated to you in excess of your allocable share of the aggregate of our income and gain result in a net reduction in your U.S. federal income tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions and loss and deduction allocations with respect to the common units sold (or otherwise disposed of in a taxable disposition) will, in effect, become taxable income and/or gain to you if you sell (or otherwise dispose in a taxable disposition) your common units at a price greater than your U.S. federal income tax basis in those common units, even if the price you receive is less than or equal to their original cost. Furthermore, for U.S. federal income tax purposes a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture of depreciation deductions and other recapture items. In addition, because a unitholder’s amount realized would include his, her or its share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you were to sell your units (or otherwise dispose of your units in a taxable disposition), you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale or other taxable disposition. 31 Table of Contents Tax-exempt organizations and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in our common units by an organization that is exempt from U.S. federal income tax, or a tax-exempt organization, such as employee benefit plans, individual retirement accounts, which we refer to as “IRAs,” and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, a substantial amount (if not most) of our U.S. federal taxable income and gain would constitute gross income from an unrelated trade or business and the amount thereof allocable to a tax-exempt organization would be taxable to such organization as unrelated business taxable income. Distributions to a non-U.S. person that holds our common units will be reduced by U.S. federal withholding taxes imposed at the highest applicable U.S. federal income tax rate and such non-U.S. person will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay U.S. federal income tax, to the extent not previously withheld, on his, her or its allocable share of our taxable income and gain. If you are a tax-exempt organization or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. You will likely be subject to state and local income taxes and return filing requirements in states and localities where you do not live as a result of investing in our common units In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, such as foreign, state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently conduct business in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Tennessee, Georgia, Ohio, New York, Massachusetts, Kentucky, New Hampshire, Maine, Florida, Maryland, Delaware and Virginia. Each of these states (other than Florida) currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals (except that Tennessee only imposes a personal income tax on interest and dividends and New Hampshire only imposes a personal income tax on interest, dividends and gambling winnings) as well as an income, business profits and/or a franchise tax on corporations and other entities. We may own property or conduct business in other states, localities or foreign countries in the future. It is your responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state, local and foreign tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state, local or non U.S. tax consequences of an investment in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of U.S. federal income tax benefits available to you. Our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of such filing positions. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain for U.S. federal income tax purposes from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your U.S. federal income tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and allocate them, between transferors and transferees (and the other holders) of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first business day of each month and as of the opening of the applicable exchange on which our common units are listed, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed Treasury Regulations are not final and do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were to be issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. 32 Table of Contents If you loan your common units to a short seller to cover a short sale of common units, you may be considered to have disposed of those common units for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If so, you would no longer be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and you may recognize gain or loss from such deemed disposition. During the period of the loan of your common units to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to such common units may not be reportable by you and any cash distributions received by you as to those common units could be fully taxable to you as ordinary income. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion regarding the treatment of a unitholder where common units are loaned to a short seller to cover a short sale of common units. Thus, unitholders should consult their tax advisors regarding the U.S. federal income tax effect of loaning their common units to a short seller. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies for U.S. federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our General Partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, our General Partner will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our General Partner. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, including the valuation of our assets, our General Partner will make many (and possibly all) of the fair market value determinations of our assets (including by using a method based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure such fair market value(s)). The IRS may challenge any one or more of such determinations, or our allocation of the adjustment under Section 743(b) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, attributable to our various assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between our General Partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income, gain or loss being allocated to our unitholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ U.S. federal income tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interest in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interest in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether a technical tax termination has occurred, a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits could occur if, for example, the Topper Group, which will own collectively 50% or more of the total interest in our capital and profits at the time of the IPO, were to sell or exchange their collective interest in us within a period of twelve months. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which could result in us filing two U.S. federal income tax returns (and unitholders receiving two Schedule K-1s) for one calendar year. However, pursuant to an IRS relief procedure the IRS may allow, among other things, a constructively terminated partnership to provide a single Schedule K-1 for the calendar year in which a termination occurs. Our technical termination could also result in the re-starting of the recovery period for our assets (and, thus, result in a significant deferral of depreciation and amortization deductions allowable in computing our U.S. federal taxable income). In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our technical termination, however, would not affect our classification as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes but instead we would be treated as a new partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we were treated as a new partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine that a technical termination occurred. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 