Item 1A. Risk FactorsThis document contains "forward-looking statements" that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are subject to uncertainty. These statements are made subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.These forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may be identified by their use of words like "plans," "seeks," "expects," "will," "should," "anticipates," "estimates," "intends," "believes," "likely," "targets" and other words with similar meanings. These statements may address, among other things, our strategy for growth, catastrophe exposure management, product development, investment results, regulatory approvals, market position, expenses, financial results, litigation and reserves. We believe that these statements are based on reasonable estimates, assumptions and plans. However, if the estimates, assumptions or plans underlying the forward-looking statements prove inaccurate or if other risks or uncertainties arise, actual results could differ materially from those communicated in these forward-looking statements.In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below, which apply to us as an insurer and a provider of other financial services. These risks constitute our cautionary statements under the 8Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and readers should carefully review such cautionary statements as they identify certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and historical trends. These cautionary statements are not exclusive and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in this document, in our filings with the SEC or via SEDAR or in materials incorporated therein by reference.Operational RiskOperational risk is the risk that the Company is unable to deliver its products or services to customers or perform vital functions required to conduct its business in an efficient and cost effective manner. This risk includes the potential for loss from such events as the breakdown or ineffectiveness of processes, human errors, technology and infrastructure failures, etc.The insurance subsidiaries’ provisions for unpaid claims may be inadequate, which would result in a reduction in the Company’s net income and might adversely affect its financial condition.Establishing an appropriate level of reserves is an inherently uncertain process. The Company’s provisions for unpaid claims do not represent an exact calculation of actual liability, but are estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections at a given point in time of what they expect to be the cost of the ultimate settlement and administration of known and unknown claims. The process for establishing the provision for unpaid claims reflects the uncertainties and significant judgmental factors inherent in estimating future results of both known and unknown claims and as such, the process is inherently complex and imprecise. These estimates are based upon various factors, including:•actuarial projections of the cost of settlement and administration of claims reflecting facts and circumstances then known;•estimates of future trends in claims severity and frequency;•judicial theories of liability;•variability in claims handling procedures;•economic factors such as inflation;•judicial and legislative trends, and actions such as class action lawsuits and judicial interpretation of coverages or policy exclusions; and •the level of insurance fraud.Most or all of these factors are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis, and the effects of these and unforeseen factors could negatively impact the Company’s ability to accurately assess the risks of the policies that it writes. In addition, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the insured event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer and additional lags between the time of reporting and final settlement of claims. Unfavorable development in any of these factors could cause the level of reserves to be inadequate. The following factors may have a substantial impact on future claims incurred:•the amounts of claims payments;•the expenses that the insurance subsidiaries incur in resolving claims;•legislative and judicial developments; and•changes in economic conditions, including inflation.As time passes and more information about the claims becomes known, the estimates are appropriately adjusted upward or downward to reflect this additional information. Because of the elements of uncertainty encompassed in this estimation process, and the extended time it can take to settle many of the more substantial claims, several years of experience may be required before a meaningful comparison can be made between actual losses and the original provision for unpaid claims. The development of the provision for unpaid claims is shown by the difference between estimates of claims as of the initial year end and the re-estimated liability at each subsequent year end. Favorable development (reserve redundancy) means that the original claims estimates were higher than subsequently determined or re-estimated. Unfavorable development (reserve deficiency) means that the original claims estimates were lower than subsequently determined or re-estimated. The Company cannot guarantee that it will not have additional unfavorable reserve development in the future. In addition, it may in the future, acquire other insurance companies. The Company cannot guarantee that the provisions for unpaid claims of the companies that it acquires are or will be adequate.9Actual claims and claim adjustment expenses incurred under insurance policies may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the amounts of provisions reflected in the financial statements of the Company.To the extent that actual claims incurred exceed expectations and the provision for unpaid claims reflected on financial statements, the Company will be required to reflect those changes by increasing reserves for unpaid claims. In addition, government regulators could require that it increase reserves if they determine that provisions for unpaid claims are understated. Increases to the provision for unpaid claims causes a reduction in the insurance subsidiaries’ surplus which could cause a downgrading of the insurance subsidiaries’ ratings. Any such downgrade could, in turn, adversely affect their ability to sell insurance policies. The insurance subsidiaries will rely on independent agents or producers and will be exposed to risks.The insurance subsidiaries will market and distribute automobile insurance products through a network of independent agents or producers in the United States. As a result, the Company relies heavily on these agents or producers to attract new business. These agents typically represent more than one insurance company, which may expose the insurance subsidiaries to competition within the agencies and, therefore, cannot rely on their sole commitment to the Company’s insurance products. Independent agents generally have the ability to bind insurance policies, actions over which the Company has a limited ability to exercise preventative control. In the event that an independent agent exceeds their authority by binding the Company on a risk that does not comply with its underwriting guidelines, the Company may be at risk for that policy until it effects a cancellation. Any improper use of such authority may result in losses that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. In accordance with industry practice, customers often pay the premiums for their policies to agents for payment to the Company. These premiums may be considered paid when received by the agent and thereafter the customer is no longer liable to the Company for those amounts, whether or not the Company has actually received these premium payments from the agent. Consequently, the Company assumes a degree of risk associated with its reliance on independent agents in connection with the settlement of insurance premium balances. The majority of gross premiums written will be derived from the commercial automobile markets. If the demand for insurance in these markets declines, results of operations could decline significantly.The size of the commercial automobile insurance market can be affected significantly by many factors outside of the Company’s control, such as the underwriting capacity and underwriting criteria of automobile insurance carriers, and it may be specifically affected by these factors. Additionally, an economic downturn in one or more of its principal markets could result in fewer automobile sales or public transportation operators, resulting in less demand for these insurance products. To the extent that these insurance markets are affected adversely for any reason, gross premiums written will be disproportionately affected due to its substantial reliance on these insurance markets. The insurance subsidiaries may not be successful in reducing their risk and increasing their underwriting capacity through reinsurance arrangements, which could adversely affect their business, financial condition and results of operations. If reinsurance rates rise significantly or reinsurance becomes unavailable or reinsurers are unable to pay its claims, the Company may be adversely affected.In order to reduce underwriting risk and increase underwriting capacity, the Company transfers portions of its insurance risk to other insurers through reinsurance contracts. The availability, cost and structure of reinsurance protection are subject to prevailing market conditions that are outside of the Company’s control and which may affect its level of business and profitability. The Company purchases reinsurance from third parties in order to reduce its liability on individual risks. Reinsurance does not relieve 10the Company of its primary liability to its insureds. A third party reinsurer’s insolvency or inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance treaty could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The amount and cost of reinsurance available to the Company are subject, in large part, to prevailing market conditions beyond the Company’s control. Its ability to provide insurance at competitive premium rates and coverage limits on a continuing basis depends in part upon the extent to which the Company can obtain adequate reinsurance in amounts and at rates that will not adversely affect its competitive position. There are no assurances that the Company will be able to maintain its current reinsurance facilities, which generally are subject to annual renewal. If it is unable to renew any of these facilities upon their expiration or to obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates, the Company may need to modify its underwriting practices or reduce its underwriting commitments.The insurance subsidiaries are subject to credit risk with respect to the obligations of reinsurers and certain of their insureds. The inability of their risk sharing partners to meet their obligations could adversely affect their profitability.Although the reinsurers are liable to the Company to the extent of risk ceded to them, the Company remains ultimately liable to policyholders on all risks, even those reinsured. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not limit the Company’s ultimate obligations to policyholders to pay claims. The Company is subject to credit risks with respect to the financial strength of its reinsurers. The Company is also subject to the risk that their reinsurers may dispute their obligations to pay its claims. As a result, the Company may not recover sufficient amounts for claims that it submits to reinsurers, if at all. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had an aggregate of $8.0 million of unsecured reinsurance recoverables. In addition, its reinsurance agreements are subject to specified limits and the Company would not have reinsurance coverage to the extent that it exceeds those limits. With respect to insurance programs, the insurance subsidiaries are subject to credit risk with respect to the payment of claims and on the portion of risk exposure either ceded to captives established by their clients or deductibles retained by their clients. The credit worthiness of prospective risk sharing partners is a factor considered when entering into or renewing these alternative risk transfer programs. The Company typically collateralizes balances due through funds withheld, letters of credit or trust agreements. No assurance can be given regarding the future ability of these entities to meet their obligations. The inability of the Company's risk sharing partners to meet their obligations could adversely affect profitability.Financial RiskAtlas is a holding company and the insurance subsidiaries are subject to dividend restrictions and are required to maintain certain capital adequacy levels.Atlas is a holding company with no significant operations of its own and as a legal entity separate and distinct from its insurance subsidiaries. As a result, its only sources of income are dividends and other distributions from its insurance subsidiaries. Atlas will be limited by the earnings of those subsidiaries, and the distribution or other payment of such earnings to it in the form of dividends, loans, advances or the reimbursement of expenses. The payment of dividends, the making of loans and advances or the reimbursement of expenses by its insurance subsidiaries is contingent upon the earnings of those subsidiaries and is subject to various business considerations. In addition, payments of dividends by the insurance subsidiaries are subject to various statutory and regulatory restrictions imposed by the insurance laws of the domiciliary jurisdiction of such subsidiaries, which limit the aggregate amount of dividends or other distributions that they can declare or pay within any 12-month period. In most jurisdictions, payment of dividends is subject to regulatory approval, and insurance regulators have broad powers to prevent reduction of statutory capital and surplus to inadequate levels and could refuse to permit the payment of dividends calculated under any applicable formula. As a result, Atlas may not be able to receive dividends from its insurance subsidiaries at times and in amounts necessary to meet its operating needs, to pay dividends to shareholders or to pay corporate expenses. The inability of its insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends could have a material adverse effect on Atlas’ business and financial condition.Market fluctuations, changes in interest rates or a need to generate liquidity could have significant and negative effects on the Company’s investment portfolio. The Company may not be able to realize its investment objectives, which could significantly reduce its net income.11The Company depends on income from its securities portfolio for a substantial portion of its earnings. Investment returns are an important part of overall profitability. A significant decline in investment yields in the securities portfolio or an impairment of securities owned could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company currently maintains and intends to continue to maintain a securities portfolio comprised primarily of fixed income securities. As of December 31, 2011, the majority of the investment portfolio was invested in fixed income securities. The Company cannot predict which industry sectors in which it maintains investments may suffer losses as a result of potential declines in commercial and economic activity, or how any such decline might impact the ability of companies within the affected industry sectors to pay interest or principal on their securities and cannot predict how or to what extent the value of any underlying collateral might be affected. Accordingly, adverse fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could adversely impact profitability, financial condition or cash flows.The Company’s ability to achieve its investment objectives is affected by general economic conditions that are beyond its control. General economic conditions can adversely affect the markets for interest rate sensitive securities, including the extent and timing of investor participation in such markets, the level and volatility of interest rates and, consequently, the value of fixed maturity securities. U.S. and global markets have been experiencing volatility since mid-2007. Initiatives taken by the U.S. and foreign governments have helped to stabilize the financial markets and restore liquidity to the banking system and credit markets. However, the financial system has not completely stabilized and market volatility could continue in the future if there is a prolonged recession or a worsening in key economic indicators. If market conditions deteriorate, the Company’s investment portfolio could be adversely impacted.Difficult conditions in the economy generally may materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, and statement of financial position and these conditions may not improve in the near future.Current market conditions and the instability in the global financial markets present additional risks and uncertainties for the Company’s business. In particular, deterioration in the public debt markets could lead to additional investment losses and an erosion of capital as a result of a reduction in the fair value of investment securities. The severe downturn in the public debt and equity markets, reflecting uncertainties associated with the mortgage crisis, worsening economic conditions, widening of credit spreads, bankruptcies and government intervention in large financial institutions, created significant unrealized losses in the securities portfolio at certain stages in 2009. Depending on market conditions going forward, the Company could again incur substantial realized and additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition. The Company could also experience a reduction in capital in the insurance subsidiaries below levels required by the regulators in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Certain trust accounts for the benefit of related companies and third parties have been established with collateral on deposit under the terms and conditions of the relevant trust agreements. The value of collateral could fall below the levels required under these agreements putting the subsidiary or subsidiaries in breach of the agreement. The current market volatility may also make it more difficult to value the Company’s securities if trading becomes less frequent.Disruptions, uncertainty and volatility in the global credit markets may also impact the Company’s ability to obtain financing for future acquisitions. If financing is available, it may only be available at an unattractive cost of capital, which would decrease profitability. There can be no assurance that current market conditions will improve in the near future. In addition, the Company may not have coverage by security analysts, the trading price of the Company’s ordinary voting common shares and restricted voting common shares may be lower and it may be more difficult for its shareholders to dispose of their Company’s shares due to the lower trading volume. The lack of a significant presence in the market could serve to limit the distribution of news and limit investor interest in the Company’s shares. One or more of these factors could result in price volatility and serve to depress the liquidity and market price of the Company’s shares.12 The Company may not have access to capital in the future due to an economic downturn.The Company may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct its operations, or expand its business. Any sustained weakness in the general economic conditions and/or financial markets in Canada, the United States or globally could adversely affect its ability to raise capital on favorable terms, or at all. From time-to-time, the Company may rely on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for operations, acquisitions and general corporate purposes.Liquidity RiskThe limited public float and trading volume for the Company’s shares may have an adverse impact on the share price or make it difficult to liquidate.The Company’s securities are held by a relatively small number of shareholders. KAI holds all of the restricted voting common shares. Also, the Company has ordinary voting shares which are not widely held. Future sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely impact the market price of the Company’s shares and the Company’s shares could be difficult to liquidate.Compliance RiskCompliance risk includes the risk arising from violations of, or non-conformance with, laws, regulations or prescribed practices. Compliance risk also arises in situations where the laws or rules governing certain products or activities may be ambiguous or untested. Compliance risk exposes the organization to negative publicity, a potential drop in stock price, fines, criminal and civil monetary penalties, payment of damages and the voiding of contracts. Compliance risks are also sometimes referred to as legal/regulatory, tax or documentation risks. If the Company fails to comply with applicable insurance and securities laws or regulatory requirements, its business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.As a publicly traded holding company listed on a stock exchange which owns insurance companies domiciled in the United States, Atlas and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to numerous laws and regulations. These laws and regulations delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to federal, provincial or state regulators. Insurance regulations are generally designed to protect policyholders rather than shareholders, and are related to matters including: •rate setting;•RBC and solvency standards;•restrictions on the amount, type, nature, quality and quantity of securities in which insurers may invest;•the maintenance of adequate reserves for unearned premiums and unpaid claims;•restrictions on the types of terms that can be included in insurance policies;•standards for accounting;•marketing practices;•claims settlement practices;•the examination of insurance companies by regulatory authorities, including periodic financial and market conduct examinations;•the licensing of insurers and their agents;•limitations on dividends and transactions with affiliates;•approval of certain reinsurance transactions; and•insolvency proceedings.13Such rules and regulations are expected to increase the Company’s legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. A significant amount of resources has been committed to monitor and address any internal control issues, and failure to do so could adversely impact operating results. Any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in the imposition of fines or significant restrictions on its ability to do business, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. In addition, any changes in laws or regulations, including the adoption of consumer initiatives regarding rates charged for automobile or other insurance coverage or claims handling procedures, could materially adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition. It is not possible to predict the future impact of changing federal, state and provincial regulation on the Company’s operations, and there can be no assurance that laws and regulations enacted in the future will not be more restrictive than existing laws and regulations. New or more restrictive regulations, including changes in current tax or other regulatory interpretations affecting an alternative risk transfer insurance model, could make it more expensive for the Company to conduct its businesses, restrict the premiums its subsidiaries able to charge or otherwise change the way it does business. In addition, economic and financial market turmoil may result in some type of U.S. federal oversight of the insurance industry in general. The insurance subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation and their ability to earn profits may be restricted by the regulations.The insurance subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation by government agencies in the United States. Failure to meet regulatory requirements could subject them to regulatory action. The regulations and associated examinations may have the effect of limiting the insurance subsidiaries’ liquidity and may adversely affect results of operations. The insurance subsidiaries must comply with statutes and regulations relating to, among other things:•statutory capital and surplus and reserve requirements;•standards of solvency that must be met and maintained;•payment of dividends;•changes of control of insurance companies;•transactions between an insurance company and any of its affiliates;•licensing of insurers and their agents;•types of insurance that may be written;•market conduct, including underwriting and claims practices;•provisions for unearned premiums, losses and other obligations;•ability to enter and exit certain insurance markets; and•nature of and limitations on investments, premium rates, or restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured under a single policy.In addition, state insurance department examiners perform periodic financial, market conduct and other examinations of insurance companies. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive. In addition to financial examinations, the insurance subsidiaries may be subject to market conduct examinations of claims and underwriting practices. Any adverse findings could result in significant fines and penalties, negatively affecting profitability. The Company’s business is subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory actions. The Company may from time-to-time be subject to a variety of legal and regulatory actions relating to its current and past business operations, including, but not limited to:•disputes over coverage or claims adjudication;•disputes regarding sales practices, disclosure, premium refunds, licensing, regulatory compliance and compensation arrangements;•disputes with its agents, producers or network providers over compensation and termination of contracts and related 14claims;•disputes with taxing authorities regarding tax liabilities; and•disputes relating to certain businesses acquired or disposed of by it.As insurance industry practices and regulatory, judicial and industry conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to pricing, claims, coverage and business practices may emerge. Plaintiffs often target P&C insurers in purported class action litigation relating to claims handling and insurance sales practices. The resolution and implications of new underwriting, claims and coverage issues could have a negative effect on the Company’s business by extending coverage beyond the Company’s underwriting intent, increasing the size of claims or otherwise requiring them to change their practices. The effects of unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues could negatively impact revenues, results of operations and reputation. Current and future court decisions and legislative activity may increase the Company’s exposure to these types of claims. Multi-party or class action claims may present additional exposure to substantial economic, non-economic or punitive damage awards. The loss of even one of these claims, if it resulted in a significant damage award or a judicial ruling that was otherwise detrimental, could create a precedent in the industry that could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. This risk of potential liability may make reasonable settlements of claims more difficult to obtain. The Company cannot determine with any certainty what new theories of recovery may evolve or what their impact may be on its business. The Company may be subject to governmental or administrative investigations and proceedings in the context of its highly regulated sectors of activity. It cannot predict the outcome of these investigations, proceedings and reviews, and cannot guarantee that such investigations, proceedings or reviews or related litigation or changes in operating policies and practices would not materially adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if it were to experience difficulties with its relationship with a regulatory body in a given jurisdiction, it could have a material adverse effect on its ability to do business in that jurisdiction.The Company’s business could be adversely affected as a result of changing political, regulatory, economic or other influences.The insurance industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. These factors affect the practices and operation of insurance and reinsurance organizations. Legislatures in the United States and other jurisdictions have periodically considered programs to reform or amend their respective insurance and reinsurance systems. Recently, the insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework has been subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions. Changes in current insurance regulation may include increased governmental involvement in the insurance industry and initiatives aimed at premium controls, or may otherwise change the business and economic environment in which insurance industry participants operate. Historically, the automobile insurance industry has been under pressure from time-to-time from regulators, legislators or special interest groups to reduce, freeze or set rates at levels that are not necessarily related to underlying costs or risks, including initiatives to roll back automobile and other personal line rates. These changes may limit the ability of the insurance subsidiaries to price automobile insurance adequately and could require the Company to discontinue unprofitable product lines, make unplanned modifications of its products and services, or result in delays or cancellations of sales of its products and services.Strategic RiskStrategic risk arises from adverse effects of high-level business decisions or the improper implementation of those decisions. Strategic risk also incorporates how management analyzes external factors that impact the strategic direction of the business. Strategic risk further encompasses reputation risk which is the impact to earnings, capital or the ability to do business arising from negative public opinion from whatever cause. The Company will derive the majority of premiums from a few geographic areas, which may cause its business to be affected by catastrophic losses or business conditions in these areas.Some jurisdictions including Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota, New York and Louisiana generate a significant percentage of total premiums. Results of operations may, therefore, be adversely affected by any catastrophic losses or material loss trends in these 15areas, to the extent covered by policies underwritten by the insurance subsidiaries. Catastrophic losses can be caused by a wide variety of events, including earthquakes, hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes, wind, ice storms, hail, fires, terrorism, riots and explosions, and their incidence and severity are inherently unpredictable. Catastrophic losses are characterized by low frequency but high severity due to aggregation of losses, and could result in adverse effects on its results of operations or financial condition. Results of operations may also be adversely affected by general economic conditions, competition, regulatory actions or other business conditions that affect losses or business conditions in the specific areas in which it does most of its business. The Company may experience difficulty in managing historic and future growth, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition.The Company intends to grow by expanding geographically and underwriting more market share via the Company’s distribution network. Continued growth could impose significant demands on management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. Growth may also place a strain on management systems and operational and financial resources, and such systems, procedures and internal controls may not be adequate to support operations as they expand. The successful integration and management of books of business, acquired businesses and other business involve numerous risks that could adversely affect the Company’s profitability, and are contingent on many factors, including: •expanding its financial, operational and management information systems;•managing its relationships with independent agents, brokers, and legacy program managers including maintaining adequate controls;•expanding its executive management and the infrastructure required to effectively control its growth;•maintaining ratings for certain of its insurance subsidiaries;•increasing the statutory capital of its insurance subsidiaries to support growth in written premiums;•accurately setting claims provisions for new business where historical underwriting experience may not be available;•obtaining regulatory approval for appropriate premium rates; and•obtaining the required regulatory approvals to offer additional insurance products or to expand into additional states or other jurisdictions.Failure by the Company to manage its growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations.Engaging in acquisitions involves risks and, if the Company is unable to effectively manage these risks its business may be materially harmed.From time-to-time the Company may engage in discussions concerning acquisition opportunities and, as a result of such discussions, may enter into acquisition transactions. Upon the announcement of an acquisition, the Company’s share price may fall depending on the size of the acquisition, the purchase price and the potential dilution to existing shareholders. It is also possible that an acquisition could dilute earnings per share.Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including the following: •difficulties in the integration of the acquired business;•assumption of unknown material liabilities, including deficient provisions for unpaid claims;•diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;•failure to achieve financial or operating objectives; and•potential loss of policyholders or key employees of acquired companies.The Company may not be able to integrate or operate successfully any business, operations, personnel, services or products that 16it may acquire in the future, which may result in its inability to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and other projected benefits from the acquisition. Integration may result in the loss of key employees, disruption to the existing businesses or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise harm the Company’s ability to retain customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Time and resources spent on integration may also impair its ability to grow its existing businesses. Also, the negative effect of any financial commitments required by regulatory authorities or rating agencies in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. Various factors may inhibit potential acquisition bids that could be beneficial to shareholders.Regulatory provisions may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders may consider in their best interest. For example, under the terms of applicable U.S. state statutes, any person or entity desiring to purchase more than a specified percentage (commonly 10% but can be as low as 5%) of the Company’s outstanding voting securities is required to obtain regulatory approval prior to the purchase of such shares. These requirements would require a potential bidder to obtain prior approval from the insurance departments of the states in which the insurance subsidiaries are domiciled and may require pre-acquisition notification in states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification provisions. Obtaining these approvals could result in material delays or deter any such transaction.Regulatory requirements could make a potential acquisition of the Company more difficult and may prevent shareholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of its shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of its shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.Provisions in the Company’s organizational documents, corporate laws and the insurance laws of Illinois could impede an attempt to replace or remove their management or directors or prevent or delay a merger or sale, which could diminish the value of the Company’s shares.The Company’s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations and the corporate laws and the insurance laws of various states contain, or are anticipated to contain, provisions that could impede an attempt to replace or remove management or directors or prevent the sale of the insurance subsidiaries that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. These provisions may include, among others:•classified insurance subsidiary boards of directors consisting of no less than five, and no more than ten directors;•requiring a vote of holders of 20% of the common shares to call a special meeting of shareholders;•requiring a two-thirds vote to amend the Articles of Incorporation;•requiring the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of shares represented at a special meeting of shareholders; and•statutory requirements prohibiting a merger, consolidation, combination or majority share acquisition between the insurance subsidiaries and an interested shareholder or an affiliate of an interested shareholder without regulatory approval.These provisions may prevent shareholders from receiving the benefit of any premium over the market price of the Company’s shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. In addition, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of the Company’s shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts.The insurance laws of most states require prior notice or regulatory approval of changes in control of an insurance company or its holding company. The insurance laws of the State of Illinois, where the insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, provide that no corporation or other person may acquire control of a domestic insurance or reinsurance company unless it has given notice to such insurance or reinsurance company and obtained prior written approval of the relevant insurance regulatory authorities. Any purchaser of 10% or more of the Company’s aggregate outstanding voting power could become subject to these regulations and could be required to file notices and reports with the applicable regulatory authorities prior to such acquisition. In addition, the 17existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of the Company’s shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts.Market and Competition RiskBecause the insurance subsidiaries are commercial automobile insurers, conditions in that industry could adversely affect their business.The majority of the gross premiums written by the Company's insurance subsidiaries will be generated from commercial automobile insurance policies. Adverse developments in the market for commercial automobile insurance, including those which could result from potential declines in commercial and economic activity, could cause our results of operations to suffer. The commercial automobile insurance industry is cyclical. Historically, the industry has been characterized by periods of price competition and excess capacity followed by periods of higher premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity. These fluctuations in the business cycle have negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact the revenues of the Company. The results of the insurance subsidiaries, and in turn, the Company, may also be affected by risks, to the extent they are covered by the insurance policies we issue, that impact the commercial automobile industry related to severe weather conditions, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes and tsunamis, as well as explosions, terrorist attacks and riots. The insurance subsidiaries’ commercial automobile insurance business may also be affected by cost trends that negatively impact profitability, such as a continuing economic downturn, inflation in vehicle repair costs, vehicle replacement parts costs, used vehicle prices, fuel costs and medical care costs. Increased costs related to the handling and litigation of claims may also negatively impact profitability. Legacy business previously written by the Company also includes private passenger auto, surety and other P&C insurance business. Adverse developments relative to previously written business could have a negative impact on the Company’s results.The insurance and related businesses in which the Company operates may be subject to periodic negative publicity which may negatively impact its financial results.The products and services of the insurance subsidiaries are ultimately distributed to individual and business customers. From time-to-time, consumer advocacy groups or the media may focus attention on insurance products and services, thereby subjecting the industry to periodic negative publicity. The Company also may be negatively impacted if participants in one or more of its markets engage in practices resulting in increased public attention to its business. Negative publicity may also result in increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of practices in the P&C insurance industry as well as increased litigation. These factors may further increase its costs of doing business and adversely affect its profitability by impeding its ability to market its products and services, requiring it to change its products or services or by increasing the regulatory burdens under which it operates. The highly competitive environment in which the Company operates could have an adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.The commercial automobile insurance business is highly competitive and, except for regulatory considerations, there are relatively few barriers to entry. Many of the Company’s competitors are substantially larger and may enjoy better name recognition, substantially greater financial resources, higher ratings by rating agencies, broader and more diversified product lines and more widespread agency relationships than the Company. The Company’s underwriting profits could be adversely impacted if new entrants or existing competitors try to compete with the Company’s products, services and programs or offer similar or better products at or below the Company’s prices. Insurers in its markets generally compete on the basis of price, consumer recognition, coverages offered, claims handling, financial stability, customer service and geographic coverage. Although pricing is influenced to some degree by that of its competitors, it is not in the Company’s best interest to compete solely on price, and may from time-to-time experience a loss of market share during periods of intense price competition. Its business could be adversely impacted by the loss of business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices. This competition could affect its ability to attract and retain profitable business.18Pricing sophistication and related underwriting and marketing programs use a number of risk evaluation factors. For auto insurance, these factors can include but are not limited to vehicle make, model and year; driver age; territory; years licensed; loss history; years insured with prior carrier; prior liability limits; prior lapse in coverage; and insurance scoring based on credit report information. Atlas believes its pricing model will generate future underwriting profits.If the Company is not able to attract and retain independent agents and brokers, its revenues could be negatively affected.The Company competes with other insurance carriers to attract and retain business from independent agents and brokers. Some of its competitors offer a larger variety of products, lower prices for insurance coverage or higher commissions than the Company. The Company’s top ten independent agents accounted for an aggregate of 63% of its commercial auto gross premium written during the year ended December 31, 2011. While Atlas maintains rigorous standards for both new and existing agents, it is seeking to expand its agent network in many areas around the country. If the insurance subsidiaries are unable to attract and retain independent agents/brokers to sell their products, their ability to compete and attract new customers and their revenues would suffer.If the Company is unable to maintain its claims-paying ratings, its ability to write insurance and to compete with other insurance companies may be adversely impacted. A decline in rating could adversely affect its position in the insurance market, make it more difficult to market its insurance products and cause its premiums and earnings to decrease.Financial ratings are an important factor influencing the competitive position of insurance companies. Third party rating agencies assess and rate the claims-paying ability of insurers and reinsurers based upon criteria that they have established. Periodically these rating agencies evaluate the business to confirm that it continues to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned. Financial strength ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and may be expected to have an effect on an insurance company’s premiums. The insurance subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best, which issues independent opinions of an insurer’s financial strength and its ability to meet policyholder obligations. A.M. Best ratings range from “A++” (Superior) to “F” (In Liquidation), with a total of 16 separate rating categories. The objective of A.M. Best’s rating system is to provide potential policyholders and other interested parties an opinion of an insurer’s financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations, including paying claims. On January 30, 2012, A.M. Best Co. affirmed the financial strength rating of American Country and American Service as “B” and the outlook assigned to all ratings is “Stable.”The Company cannot provide assurance that A.M. Best will maintain these ratings in the future. If the insurance subsidiaries’ ratings are reduced by A.M. Best, their competitive position in the insurance industry could suffer and it could be more difficult to market their insurance products. A downgrade could result in a significant reduction in the number of insurance contracts written by the subsidiaries and in a substantial loss of business to other competitors with higher ratings, causing premiums and earnings to decrease. Rating agencies evaluate insurance companies based on financial strength and the ability to pay claims, factors that may be more relevant to policyholders than to investors. Financial strength ratings by rating agencies are not ratings of securities or recommendations to buy, hold or sell any security and should not be relied upon as such.Human Resources RiskHuman resources risk is the risk that the Company is unable to maximize available human resources in the achievement of its business objectives. This includes people, their experience, knowledge, skills and work environment.The Company’s business depends upon key employees, and if it is unable to retain the services of these key employees or to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, its business may suffer.The Company’s success depends, to a great extent, upon the ability of executive management and other key employees to implement its business strategy and its ability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any 19of its key employees, or the inability to identify, hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could adversely affect the quality and profitability of the Company's business operations. In addition, the Company must forecast volume and other factors in changing business environments with reasonable accuracy and adjust its hiring and employment levels accordingly. Its failure to recognize the need for such adjustments, or its failure or inability to react appropriately on a timely basis, could lead the Company either to over-staffing (which could adversely affect its costs structure) or under-staffing (which could impair its ability to service current products lines and new lines of business). In either event, the Company's financial results and customer relationships could be adversely affected. U.S. Tax RisksIf the Company were not to be treated as a U.S. Corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, certain tax inefficiencies would result and certain adverse tax rules would apply.Pursuant to certain “expatriation” provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the reverse merger agreement provides that the parties intend to treat the Company as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The expatriation provisions are complex, are largely unsettled and subject to differing interpretations, and are subject to change, perhaps retroactively. If the Company were not to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, certain tax inefficiencies and adverse tax consequences and reporting requirements would result for both the Company and the recipients and holders of stock in the Company, including that dividend distributions from its insurance subsidiaries to Atlas would be subject to 30% U.S. withholding tax, with no available reduction and that members of the consolidated group may not be permitted to file a consolidated U.S. tax return resulting in the acceleration of cash tax outflow and potential permanent loss of tax benefits associated net operating loss carry-forwards that could have otherwise been utilized.The Company’s use of losses may be subject to limitations and the tax liability of the Company may be increased.Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a corporation’s stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for U.S. federal income tax purposes. An ownership change generally limits a U.S. corporation’s ability to use its net operating loss carry-forwards attributable to the period prior to the change. Both the insurance subsidiaries experienced ownership changes in connection with the private placement and reverse merger transaction completed in the last quarter of 2010, such that the use of their net operating loss carry-forwards will be subject to limitation. In addition, the amounts of any pre-transaction net operating losses of the insurance subsidiaries and tax basis that may be available for use by the insurance subsidiaries following the reverse merger transaction are limited and dependent on tax elections to be taken on a tax return of the insurance subsidiaries’ former parent. The Company’s former parent controls the determination of which elections are made and the extent to which the elections will impact the net operating losses and tax attributes of the insurance subsidiaries for net operating losses and tax attributes generated in periods through December 31, 2010. The Company will not be compensated to the extent the net operating losses and tax attributes are reduced or otherwise unfavorably adjusted due to changes and elections in the former parent’s 2010 and prior tax filings. Further limitations on the utilization of losses may apply because of the “dual consolidated loss” rules, which will also require the Company to recapture into income the amount of any such utilized losses in certain circumstances. As a result of the application of these rules, the future tax liability of the Company and its insurance subsidiaries could be significantly increased. In addition, taxable income may also be recognized by the Company or its insurance subsidiaries in connection with the 2010 reverse merger transaction.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.20