Item 1A. RISK FACTORSYou should read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition in the future.The insurance subsidiaries’ provisions for unpaid claims may be inadequate, which would result in a reduction in our net income and might adversely affect our financial condition.Our success depends upon our ability to accurately assess and price the risks covered by the insurance policies that we write. We establish reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of losses and expenses related to the administration of claims incurred on the insurance policies we write. Establishing an appropriate level of reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Our provisions for unpaid claims do not represent an exact calculation of actual liability, but are estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections at a given point in time of what we expect to be the cost of the ultimate settlement and administration of known and unknown claims. The process for establishing the provision for unpaid claims reflects the uncertainties and significant judgmental factors inherent in estimating future results of both known and unknown claims and as such, the process is inherently complex and imprecise. We utilize a third party actuarial firm to assist us in estimating the provision for unpaid claims. These estimates are based upon various factors, including:•actuarial and statistical projections of the cost of settlement and administration of claims reflecting facts and circumstances then known;•historical claims information;•assessments of currently available data;•estimates of future trends in claims severity and frequency;•judicial theories of liability;•economic factors such as inflation;•estimates and assumptions regarding judicial and legislative trends, and actions such as class action lawsuits and judicial interpretation of coverages or policy exclusions; and•the level of insurance fraud.Most or all of these factors are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis, and the effects of these and unforeseen factors could negatively impact our ability to accurately assess the risks of the policies that we write. In addition, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the insured event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer and additional lags between the time of reporting and final settlement of claims. Unfavorable development in any of these factors could cause the level of reserves to be inadequate. The following factors may have a substantial impact on future claims incurred:10• the amounts of claims payments;• the expenses that the insurance subsidiaries incur in resolving claims;• legislative and judicial developments; and• changes in economic conditions, including inflation.As time passes and more information about the claims becomes known, the estimates are adjusted upward or downward to reflect this additional information. Because of the elements of uncertainty encompassed in this estimation process, and the extended time it can take to settle many of the more substantial claims, several years of experience may be required before a meaningful comparison can be made between actual losses and the original provision for unpaid claims. The development of the provision for unpaid claims is shown by the difference between estimates of claims as of the initial year end and the re-estimated liability at each subsequent year end. Favorable development (reserve redundancy) means that the original claims estimates were higher than subsequently determined or re-estimated. Unfavorable development (reserve deficiency) means that the original claims estimates were lower than subsequently determined or re-estimated. For example, in 2010, a detailed review of claim payment and reserving practices was performed, which led to significant changes in both practices, increasing ultimate loss estimates and accelerating claim payments. We recorded a total of $5.3 million in unfavorable reserve development in 2010 related to claims incurred during prior periods. Our review continued into 2011 and Atlas recorded a $1.8 million adjustment to further strengthen its reserves for claims related to policies issued while the insurance subsidiaries were under previous ownership in years preceding 2010. Although we have not recorded any further adverse development since that time, we cannot guarantee that we will not have additional unfavorable reserve developments in the future. In addition, we may in the future acquire other insurance companies. We cannot guarantee that the provisions for unpaid claims of the companies that we acquire are or will be adequate. Government regulators could require that we increase reserves if they determine that provisions for unpaid claims are understated. Increases to the provision for unpaid claims cause a reduction in our insurance subsidiaries’ surplus which could cause a downgrading of our insurance subsidiaries’ ratings. Any such downgrade could, in turn, adversely affect their ability to sell insurance policies.In recent periods, Gateway has recorded material reserve deficiencies, and its reserves may be inadequate to pay claims, which could result in a reduction of our net income and might adversely affect our financial position.We became responsible for the historical loss reserves established by Gateway’s management upon completion of the Gateway acquisition. While the stock purchase agreement provides for certain protections in this regard, there can be no assurances they will be sufficient to offset any further adverse development to Gateway’s historical loss reserves. Gateway recognized approximately $7.4 million in reserve strengthening in the third and fourth quarters of 2012. During the years ended 2011 and 2010, their provision for losses and loss adjustment expenses net of reinsurance recoveries increased by approximately $1.7 million and $2.4 million, respectively, as a result of changes in estimated losses incurred with respect to insured events in prior years. Any such further unfavorable development in Gateway’s reserves would reduce our net income and have an adverse effect on our financial position to the extent it exceeds the protections provided for in the stock purchase agreement related to the Gateway acquisition.Our success depends on our ability to accurately price the risks we underwrite. Our results of operations and financial condition depend on our ability to underwrite and set premium rates accurately for a wide variety of risks. Adequate rates are necessary to generate premiums sufficient to pay losses, loss settlement expenses and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. To price our products accurately, we must collect and properly analyze a substantial amount of data; develop, test and apply appropriate pricing techniques; closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and project both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy. Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully, and as a result price our products accurately, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are outside our control, including: • the availability of sufficient reliable data and our ability to properly analyze available data; • the uncertainties that inherently characterize estimates and assumptions; • underlying trends or changes affecting risk and loss costs;• our selection and application of appropriate pricing techniques; and • changes in applicable legal liability standards and in the civil litigation system generally. Consequently, we could under price risks, which would adversely affect our profit margins, or we could over price risks, which could reduce our sales volume and competitiveness. In either case, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected.Our insurance subsidiaries rely on independent agents and other producers to bind insurance policies on and to collect premiums from our policyholders, which exposes us to risks that our producers fail to meet their obligations to us.11Our insurance subsidiaries market and distribute automobile insurance products through a network of independent agents and other producers in the United States. Gateway also relies on independent agents to distribute its insurance products and we did not have existing relationships with many of Gateway’s independent agents prior to our acquisition in 2013. We rely, and will continue to rely, heavily on these producers to attract new business. Independent producers generally have the ability to bind insurance policies and collect premiums on our behalf, actions over which we have a limited ability to exercise preventative control. In the event that an independent agent exceeds their authority by binding us on a risk that does not comply with our underwriting guidelines, we may be at risk for that policy until we effect a cancellation. Any improper use of such authority may result in losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in accordance with industry practice, policyholders often pay the premiums for their policies to producers for payment to us. These premiums may be considered paid when received by the producer and thereafter the customer is no longer liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received these premium payments from the producer. Consequently, we assume a degree of risk associated with our reliance on independent agents in connection with the settlement of insurance premium balances. Our insurance subsidiaries may be unable to mitigate their risk or increase their underwriting capacity through reinsurance arrangements, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If reinsurance rates rise significantly or reinsurance becomes unavailable or reinsurers are unable to pay our claims, we may be adversely affected.In order to reduce underwriting risk and increase underwriting capacity, our insurance subsidiaries transfer portions of our insurance risk to other insurers through reinsurance contracts. We generally purchase reinsurance from third parties in order to reduce our liability on individual risks. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our primary liability to our insurance subsidiaries’ insureds. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we had ceded premium written of $12.6 million to our reinsurers. The availability, cost and structure of reinsurance protection are subject to prevailing market conditions that are outside of our control and which may affect our level of business and profitability. Our ability to provide insurance at competitive premium rates and coverage limits on a continuing basis depends in part upon the extent to which we can obtain adequate reinsurance in amounts and at rates that will not adversely affect our competitive position. There are no assurances that we will be able to maintain our current reinsurance facilities, which generally are subject to annual renewal. If we are unable to renew any of these facilities upon their expiration or to obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates, we may need to modify our underwriting practices or reduce our underwriting commitments, which could adversely affect our results of operations.Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to credit risk with respect to the obligations of reinsurers and certain of our insureds. The inability of our risk sharing partners to meet their obligations could adversely affect our profitability.Although the reinsurers are liable to us to the extent of risk ceded to them, we remain ultimately liable to policyholders on all risks, even those reinsured. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not limit our ultimate obligations to policyholders to pay claims. We are subject to credit risks with respect to the financial strength of our reinsurers. We are also subject to the risk that their reinsurers may dispute their obligations to pay our claims. As a result, we may not recover sufficient amounts for claims that we submit to reinsurers, if at all. As of December 31, 2013, we had an aggregate of $19.1 million of reinsurance recoverables, of which $8.4 million were unsecured. In addition, our reinsurance agreements are subject to specified limits and we would not have reinsurance coverage to the extent that those limits are exceeded. Effective immediately after the close of the Gateway transaction, we entered into a reinsurance agreement with a third party reinsurer, which covers all in-force premium and loss reserves for Gateway’s workers’ compensation program. Along with the reserves, any go-forward premium written for the workers’ compensation program will be ceded in its entirety to this third party reinsurer under the terms of this reinsurance agreement. While Gateway will remain liable to its insureds, we expect to have no net exposure to any losses related to this workers’ compensation business subsequent to the effective date of the acquisition, provided the reinsurer continues to make payments to us and otherwise complies with the terms of this reinsurance agreement, although no assurances thereof can be given.With respect to insurance programs, the insurance subsidiaries are subject to credit risk with respect to the payment of claims and on the portion of risk exposure either ceded to captives established by their clients or deductibles retained by their clients. No assurance can be given regarding the future ability of these entities to meet their obligations. The inability of our risk sharing partners to meet their obligations could adversely affect our profitability. The exclusions and limitations in our policies may not be enforceable. Many of the policies we issue include exclusions or other conditions that define and limit coverage, which exclusions and conditions are designed to manage our exposure to certain types of risks and expanding theories of legal liability. In addition, many of our policies limit the period during which a policyholder may bring a claim under the policy, which period in many cases is shorter 12than the statutory period under which these claims can be brought by our policyholders. While these exclusions and limitations help us assess and control our loss exposure, it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion or limitation, or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of these exclusions and limitations. This could result in higher than anticipated losses and claims handling expenses by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increasing the number or size of claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued the insurance policies that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a policy is issued.The occurrence of severe catastrophic events may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and financial condition.Although our business strategy generally precludes us from writing significant amounts of catastrophe exposed business, most property and casualty insurance contains some exposure to catastrophic loss. We have only limited exposure to natural and man-made disasters, such as hurricane, typhoon, windstorm, flood, earthquake, acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. While we carefully manage our aggregate exposure to catastrophes, modeling errors and the incidence and severity of catastrophes, such as hurricanes, windstorms and large-scale terrorist attacks are inherently unpredictable, and our losses from catastrophes could be substantial. In addition, it is possible we may experience an unusual frequency of smaller losses in a particular period. In either case, the consequences could be substantial volatility in our financial condition or results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to write new business. These losses could deplete our shareholders’ equity. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of industry losses from catastrophic events in recent years and we expect that those factors will increase the severity of catastrophe losses in the future. It is also possible that catastrophic losses could have an impact on our investment portfolio.The risk models we use to quantify catastrophe exposures and risk accumulations may prove inadequate in predicting all outcomes from potential catastrophe events. We rely on widely accepted and industry-recognized catastrophe risk modeling, primarily in conjunction with our reinsurance partners, to help us quantify our aggregate exposure to any one event. As with any model of physical systems, particularly those with low frequencies of occurrence and potentially high severity of outcomes, the accuracy of the model’s predictions is largely dependent on the accuracy and quality of the data provided in the underwriting process and the judgments of our employees and other industry professionals. These models do not anticipate all potential perils or events that could result in a catastrophic loss to us. Furthermore, it is often difficult for models to anticipate and incorporate events that have not been experienced during or as a result of prior catastrophes. Accordingly, it is possible for us to be subject to events or contingencies that have not been anticipated by our catastrophe risk models and which could have a material adverse effect on our reserves and results of operations.Financial RisksWe are a holding company dependent on the results of operations of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us.Atlas is a holding company with no significant operations of its own and a legal entity separate and distinct from our insurance subsidiaries. As a result, our only sources of income are dividends and other distributions from our insurance subsidiaries. We will be limited by the earnings of those subsidiaries, and the distribution or other payment of such earnings to it in the form of dividends, loans, advances or the reimbursement of expenses. The payment of dividends, the making of loans and advances or the reimbursement of expenses by our insurance subsidiaries is contingent upon the earnings of those subsidiaries and is subject to various business considerations and various statutory and regulatory restrictions imposed by the insurance laws of the domiciliary jurisdiction of such subsidiaries. In Illinois and Missouri, the states of domicile of American Service, American Country and Gateway, dividends may only be paid out of earned surplus and cannot be paid when the surplus of the company fails to meet minimum requirements or when payment of the dividend or distribution would reduce its surplus to less than the minimum amount. The state insurance regulator must be notified in advance of the payment of an extraordinary dividend and be given the opportunity to disapprove any such dividend. Our insurance subsidiaries cannot currently pay any dividends to Atlas without regulatory approval. In addition, prior to entering into any loan or certain other agreements between one or more of our insurance subsidiaries and Atlas or our other affiliates, advance notice must be provided to the state insurance regulator and the insurance regulator has the opportunity to disapprove such loan or agreement. Additionally, insurance regulators have broad powers to prevent reduction of statutory capital and surplus to inadequate levels and could refuse to permit the payment of dividends calculated under any applicable formula. As a result, we may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions from our insurance subsidiaries at times and in amounts necessary to meet our operating needs, to pay dividends to shareholders or to pay corporate expenses. The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.13Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements. Failure to meet these requirements may subject us to regulatory action. American Country and American Service are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed under the laws of Illinois and each state in which they issue policies. Any failure by one of our insurance subsidiaries to meet minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed by applicable state law may subject it to corrective action, which may include requiring adoption of a comprehensive financial plan, revocation of its license to sell insurance products or placing the subsidiary under state regulatory control. Any new minimum capital and surplus requirements adopted in the future may require us to increase the capital and surplus of our insurance company subsidiaries, which we may not be able to do. Upon the completion of the Gateway acquisition, we became subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed under the laws of Missouri with regard to Gateway and the additional states where Gateway issues policies.We are subject to assessments and other surcharges from state guaranty funds, and mandatory state insurance facilities, which may reduce our profitability. Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business therein to bear a portion of contingent and incurred claim handling expenses and the unfunded amount of “covered” claim and unearned premium obligations of impaired or insolvent insurance companies, either up to the policy's limit, the applicable guaranty fund covered claim obligation cap, or 100% of statutorily defined workers' compensation benefits, subject to applicable deductibles. These obligations are funded by assessments, made on a retrospective, prospective or pre-funded basis, which are levied by guaranty associations within the state, up to prescribed limits (typically 2% of “net direct written premium”), on all member insurers in the state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in certain covered lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer was engaged. Accordingly, the total amount of assessments levied on us by the states in which we are licensed to write insurance may increase as we increase our premiums written. In addition, as a condition to the ability to conduct business in certain states (and within the jurisdiction of some local governments), insurance companies are subject to or required to participate in various premium or loss based insurance-related assessments, including mandatory (a/k/a “involuntary”) insurance pools, underwriting associations, workers' compensation second-injury funds, reinsurance funds and other state insurance facilities. Although we may be entitled to take premium tax credit (or offsets), recover policy surcharges or include assessments in future premium rate structures for payments we make under these facilities, the effect of these assessments and insurance-related arrangements, or changes in them, could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business.Market fluctuations, changes in interest rates or a need to generate liquidity could have significant and negative effects on our investment portfolio. We may not be able to realize our investment objectives, which could significantly reduce our net income.We depend on income from our securities portfolio for a substantial portion of our earnings. Investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. A significant decline in investment yields in the securities portfolio or an impairment of securities owned could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently maintain and intend to continue to maintain a securities portfolio comprised primarily of fixed income securities. As of December 31, 2013, our investment portfolio was primarily invested in fixed income securities. We cannot predict which industry sectors in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of potential declines in commercial and economic activity, or how any such decline might impact the ability of companies within the affected industry sectors to pay interest or principal on their securities and cannot predict how or to what extent the value of any underlying collateral might be affected. Accordingly, adverse fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could adversely impact profitability, financial condition or cash flows. If we are forced to sell portfolio securities that have unrealized losses for liquidity purposes rather than holding them to maturity or recovery, we would realize investment losses on those securities when that determination was made. We could also experience a loss of principal in fixed and non-fixed income investments.Our ability to achieve our investment objectives is affected by general economic conditions that are beyond our control. General economic conditions can adversely affect the markets for interest rate sensitive securities, including the extent and timing of investor participation in such markets, the level and volatility of interest rates and, consequently, the value of fixed maturity securities. U.S. and global markets have been experiencing volatility since mid-2007. Initiatives taken by the U.S. and foreign governments have helped to stabilize the financial markets and restore liquidity to the banking system and credit markets. In addition, markets in the United States and around the world experienced volatility in 2011 due, in part, to sovereign debt downgrades. Although economic conditions and financial markets have somewhat stabilized, if market conditions were to deteriorate, our investment portfolio could be adversely affected. Difficult conditions in the economy generally may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and statement of financial position and these conditions may not improve in the near future.14Current market conditions and the instability in the global financial markets present additional risks and uncertainties for our business. In particular, deterioration in the public debt markets could lead to additional investment losses and an erosion of capital as a result of a reduction in the fair value of investment securities. The severe downturn in the public debt and equity markets, reflecting uncertainties associated with the mortgage crisis, worsening economic conditions, widening of credit spreads, bankruptcies and government intervention in large financial institutions, created significant unrealized losses in our securities portfolio at certain stages in 2009. Economic uncertainty has recently been exacerbated by the increased potential for default by one or more European sovereign debt issuers, the potential partial or complete dissolution of the Eurozone and its common currency and the negative impact of such events on global financial institutions and capital markets generally. Actions or inactions of European governments may impact these actual or perceived risks. In the U.S. during 2011, one rating agency downgraded the U.S.’s long-term debt credit rating from AAA. Future actions or inactions of the United States government, including a shutdown of the federal government, could increase the actual or perceived risk that the U.S. may not ultimately pay its obligations when due and may disrupt financial markets.Atlas’ portfolio is managed by an SEC registered investment advisor specializing in the management of insurance company portfolios. We and our investment manager consider these issues in connection with current asset allocation decisions with the object of avoiding them going forward. However, depending on market conditions going forward, we could again incur substantial realized and additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the current market conditions will improve in the near future. We could also experience a reduction in capital in the insurance subsidiaries below levels required by the regulators in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Certain trust accounts for the benefit of related companies and third parties have been established with collateral on deposit under the terms and conditions of the relevant trust agreements. The value of collateral could fall below the levels required under these agreements, putting the subsidiary or subsidiaries in breach of the agreement.We may not have access to capital in the future.We may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct our operations or expand our business. However, we may be unable to raise capital on favorable terms, or at all, including as a result of disruptions, uncertainty and volatility in the global credit markets, or due to any sustained weakness in the general economic conditions and/or financial markets in the United States or globally. From time to time, we may rely on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for operations, acquisitions and general corporate purposes.The limited public float and trading volume for our shares may have an adverse impact on the share price or make it difficult to liquidate.Our securities are held by a relatively small number of shareholders. Future sales of substantial amounts of our shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely impact the market price of our shares and our shares could be difficult to liquidate.Our business depends upon key employees, and if we are unable to retain the services of these key employees or to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, our business may suffer.Our operations depend, to a great extent, upon the ability of executive management and other key employees to implement our business strategy and our ability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, or the inability to identify, hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future could adversely affect the quality and profitability of our business operations. In addition, we must forecast volume and other factors in changing business environments with reasonable accuracy and adjust our hiring and employment levels accordingly. Our failure to recognize the need for such adjustments, or our failure or inability to react appropriately on a timely basis, could lead to over-staffing (which could adversely affect our cost structure) or under-staffing (which could impair our ability to service current product lines and new lines of business). In either event, our financial results and customer relationships could be adversely affected.Compliance RisksWe are subject to comprehensive regulation, and our results may be unfavorably impacted by these regulations.As a holding company which owns insurance companies domiciled in the United States, we and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive laws, regulations and rules. These laws, regulations and rules generally delegate regulatory, supervisory 15and administrative powers to state insurance regulators. Insurance regulations are generally designed to protect policyholders rather than shareholders, and are related to matters including but not limited to:•rate setting;•RBC ratio and solvency requirements;•restrictions on the amount, type, nature, quality and quantity of securities and other investments in which insurers may invest;•the maintenance of adequate reserves for unearned premiums and unpaid, and incurred but not reported, claims;•restrictions on the types of terms that can be included in insurance policies;•standards for accounting;•marketing practices;•claims settlement practices;•the examination of insurance companies by regulatory authorities, including periodic financial and market conduct examinations;•requirements to comply with medical privacy laws as a result of our administration of Gateway's run-off workers' compensation business;•the licensing of insurers and their agents;•limitations on dividends and transactions with affiliates;•approval of certain reinsurance transactions;•insolvency proceedings;•ability to enter and exit certain insurance markets, cancel policies or non-renew policies; and•data privacy.Such laws, regulations and rules increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Any failure to monitor and address any internal control issues could adversely impact operating results. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the audit of our insurance subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2010, during which our insurance subsidiaries were owned by KAI, the auditors reported to those charged with governance significant deficiencies in the internal controls of the insurance subsidiaries related to technical account reconciliations and reinsurance recoverable reconciliations and billings. A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect and correct misstatements on a timely basis. A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity's financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and corrected on a timely basis. None of the significant deficiencies described above were reported as a material weakness. Following the reverse merger on December 31, 2010 wherein the insurance subsidiaries were transferred to us by KAI, we committed resources to addressing these identified deficiencies in internal controls and we believe they have all been addressed. State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters. Our business depends on compliance with applicable laws, regulations and rules and our ability to maintain valid licenses and approvals for our operations. Regulatory authorities may deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including violations of laws, regulations and rules. Changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry or changes in laws, regulations and rules themselves or interpretations thereof by regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Because we are subject to insurance laws, regulations and rules of many jurisdictions that are administered by different regulatory and governmental authorities, there is also a risk that one authority's interpretation of a legal or regulatory issue may conflict with another authority's interpretation of the same issue. Insurance companies are also subject to “desk drawer rules” of state insurance regulators, which are regulatory rules that have not been codified or formally adopted through regulatory proceedings. In addition, we could face individual, group and class-action lawsuits by our policyholders and others for alleged violations of certain state laws, regulations and rules. Each of these regulatory risks could have an adverse effect on our profitability. As a result of our administration of Gateway's run-off workers' compensation business, we are required to comply with state and federal laws governing the collection, transmission, security and privacy of health information that require significant compliance costs, and any failure to comply with these laws could result in material criminal and civil penalties. These laws and rules are subject to administrative interpretation and many are derived from the privacy provisions in the Federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 2002. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which, among other things, protects consumers from the unauthorized dissemination of certain personal information, and various state laws and regulations addressing privacy issues, require us to maintain appropriate procedures for managing and protecting certain personal information of our customers and to fully disclose our privacy practices 16to our customers. Given the complexity of these privacy regulations, the possibility that the regulations may change, and the fact that the regulations are subject to changing and potentially conflicting interpretation, our ability to maintain compliance with the privacy requirements of state and federal law is uncertain and the costs of compliance are significant. In addition, Gateway is exiting the workers' compensation line of business across the country and we also exited the Florida market for all lines of business. Most states have adopted either statutes or regulations or have issued bulletins or informal rules that regulate the anticipated withdrawal of a product, line or sub-line of insurance business from the insurance marketplace in their state. While what constitutes a “withdrawal” or its equivalent under each state's statutory or regulatory scheme varies, Gateway will be subject to regulatory requirements in connection with its withdrawal, including, but not limited to, making notice and/or plan filings with the applicable insurance regulator in certain states and possibly requiring the prior approval of the applicable state regulator. A failure by Gateway to comply with and satisfy these regulatory requirements in connection with its planned withdrawals could lead to regulatory fines, cause a distraction for management requiring us to continue to administer Gateway's workers' compensation business for longer than anticipated and could result in Gateway continuing to write undesirable commercial automobile business in Florida, which could have an adverse impact on our reserves, results of operations and financial condition.It is not possible to predict the future impact of changing federal and state regulation on our operations, and there can be no assurance that laws enacted in the future will not be more restrictive than existing laws, regulations and rules. New or more restrictive laws, regulations and rules, including changes in current tax or other regulatory interpretations could make it more expensive for us to conduct our businesses, restrict or reduce the premiums our insurance subsidiaries are able to charge or otherwise change the way we do business. In addition, economic and financial market turmoil or other conditions, circumstances or events may result in U.S. federal oversight of the insurance industry in general.Our business is subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory actions.We may, from time to time, be subject to a variety of legal and regulatory actions relating to our current and past business operations, including, but not limited to:•disputes over coverage or claims adjudication, including claims alleging that we or our insurance subsidiaries have acted in bad faith in the administration of claims by our policyholders;•disputes regarding sales practices, disclosure, policy issuance and cancellation, premium refunds, licensing, regulatory compliance and compensation arrangements;•limitations on the conduct of our business;•disputes with our agents, producers or network providers over compensation or the termination of our contracts with such agents, producers or network providers, including any alleged claim that they may make against us in connection with a dispute whether in the scope of their agreements or otherwise;•disputes with taxing authorities regarding tax liabilities; and•disputes relating to certain businesses acquired or disposed of by us.As insurance industry practices and regulatory, judicial and industry conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to pricing, claims, coverage and business practices may emerge. Plaintiffs often target P&C insurers in purported class action litigation relating to claims handling and insurance sales practices. The resolution and implications of new underwriting, claims and coverage issues could have a negative effect on our business by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, increasing the size of claims or otherwise requiring us to change our practices. The effects of unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues could negatively impact revenues, results of operations and reputation. Current and future court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure to these or other types of claims. Multi-party or class action claims may present additional exposure to substantial economic, non-economic or punitive damage awards. An unfavorable result with respect to even one of these claims, if it resulted in a significant damage award or a judicial ruling that was otherwise detrimental, could create a precedent that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. This risk of potential liability may make reasonable settlements of claims more difficult to obtain. We cannot determine with any certainty what new theories of recovery may evolve or what their impact may be on our business.We have been and may be subject to governmental or administrative investigations and proceedings. Our insurance subsidiaries have been subject to numerous inquiries related to the substantial ownership interest in us held by KAI in the past. As of this document’s filing date, KAI’s ownership is below 10% and they are no longer considered an ultimate controlling party from a statutory perspective. We remain subject to regulatory action, restrictions or heightened compliance or reporting requirements in certain states, including Connecticut and Texas. Texas accounts for 5.1% of our net premiums earned to date in 2013. Prior to Atlas' acquisition of American Country, the Connecticut insurance commissioner issued an order prohibiting American Country from writing new policies, limiting it to only renewing existing policies in that state. Currently, the insurance subsidiaries do not write any business in Connecticut, but may seek approval to write business in this state at some point in the future. In 2009, the 17Texas Department of Insurance indicated to the insurance subsidiaries that it was considering revoking their certificates of authority to write insurance business in Texas. Following discussions with management of the subsidiaries’ former owner, KFSI, the insurance subsidiaries were allowed to retain their licenses, in part, in anticipation of a planned spin-off of the insurance subsidiaries outside of KFSI and subject to their maintenance of a statutory deposit in Texas. If we are not able to successfully comply with or lift the heightened compliance or disclosure requirements applicable in one or more of these states or any new requirements that a state may impose in the future, we may not be able to expand our operations in such state in accordance with our growth strategy or we could be subject to additional regulatory requirements that could impose a material burden on our expansion strategy or limit or prohibit our ability to write new and renewal insurance policies in such state. Any such limitation or prohibition could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions and on our ability to execute our strategy in the future. The result of these inquiries could lead to additional requirements, restrictions or limitations being placed on us or our insurance subsidiaries, any of which could increase our costs of regulatory compliance and could have an adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. As a general matter, we cannot predict the outcome of regulatory investigations, proceedings and reviews, and cannot guarantee that such investigations, proceedings or reviews or related litigation or changes in operating policies and practices would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we have experienced difficulties with our relationships with regulatory bodies in various jurisdictions, and if such difficulties arise in the future, they could have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business in that jurisdiction.As a result of KAI's ownership dropping below 10%, there was a deemed change of control pursuant to insurance statutes and notice was sent to all states in which the insurance subsidiaries are licensed. In certain states, such as Michigan, a change of control can require re-application to continue doing business in that state. While we do not expect these requirements to disrupt our business, regulatory approvals remain pending.Our business could be adversely affected as a result of changing political, regulatory, economic or other influences.The insurance industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. These influences affect the practices and operation of insurance and reinsurance organizations. Legislatures in the United States and other jurisdictions have periodically considered programs to reform or amend their respective insurance and reinsurance regulatory systems. Recently, the insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework has been subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions. Changes in current insurance laws, regulations and rules may result in increased governmental involvement in or supervision of the insurance industry or may otherwise change the business and economic environment in which insurance industry participants operate. Historically, the automobile insurance industry has been under pressure from time to time from regulators, legislators or special interest groups to reduce, freeze or set rates at levels that are not necessarily related to underlying costs or risks, including initiatives to reduce automobile and other commercial line insurance rates. These changes may limit the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to price automobile insurance adequately and could require us to discontinue unprofitable product lines, make unplanned modifications of our products and services, or result in delays or cancellations of sales of our products and services.Strategic RisksOur geographic concentration ties our performance to the business, economic, regulatory and other conditions of certain states.Some jurisdictions (including, most notably New York, Illinois, Michigan, Texas and Louisiana) generate a more significant percentage of our total premiums than others. Our revenues and profitability are subject to the prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, political, demographic, competitive, weather and other conditions in the principal states in which we do business. Changes in any of these conditions could make it less attractive for us to do business in such states and would have a more pronounced effect on us compared to companies that are more geographically diversified. In addition, our exposure to severe losses from localized perils, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes, wind, ice storms, hail, fires, terrorism, riots and explosions, is increased in those areas where we have written significant numbers of P&C insurance policies. Given our geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations, as could other regional factors impacting the local economies in that market.In order to operate in a profitable manner, we need to maintain or increase our current level of earned premiums. We may experience difficulty in managing historic and future growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We believe that, given our fixed costs associated with underwriting and administering our insurance operations, our insurance subsidiaries must generate annual net earned premiums in excess of approximately $50 million in order to achieve our targeted levels of profitability. In order to maintain and increase this level of earned premiums, we intend to expand geographically and increase our market share via our expanded distribution network. Continued growth could impose significant demands on 18management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. Growth may also place a strain on management systems and operational and financial resources, and such systems, procedures and internal controls may not be adequate to support operations as they expand. The integration and management of acquired books of business, acquired businesses and other growth initiatives involve numerous risks that could adversely affect our profitability, and are contingent on many factors, including:•expanding our financial, operational and management information systems;•managing our relationships with independent agents, brokers, and legacy program managers, including maintaining adequate controls;•expanding our executive management and the infrastructure required to effectively control our growth;•maintaining ratings for certain of our insurance subsidiaries;•increasing the statutory capital of our insurance subsidiaries to support growth in written premiums;•accurately setting claims provisions for new business where historical underwriting experience may not be available;•obtaining regulatory approval for appropriate premium rates where applicable; and•obtaining the required regulatory approvals to offer additional insurance products or to expand into additional states or other jurisdictions.Our failure to grow our earned premiums or to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.A significant portion of our products in the New York City market are distributed by a single agent, and any decrease in the amount of our products distributed by this agent, or under performance of the book of business controlled by this agent, could adversely impact our business.In the third quarter of 2012, we implemented our New York “excess taxi program” with a single agent writing business in the New York City market, which is a new business arrangement to provide excess coverage above the levels of risk retained by the insured. This agent was responsible for approximately 13.7% of our gross premium written for the year ended December 31, 2013. We do not have an exclusive relationship with this agent, and there can be no assurance that this relationship will continue in the future. If this agent reduces its marketing of our products or moves some or all of its business to another carrier, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, due in part to our limited experience with this program, and with the New York City market in general, it is uncertain whether policies issued pursuant to this program will be profitable. For example, if risks associated with these clients differ from those reflected in our underwriting policies, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.Engaging in acquisitions involves risks, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, our business may be materially harmed.Acquisitions of similar insurance providers, such as Gateway, are expected to be a material component of our growth strategy, subject to availability of suitable opportunities and market conditions. From time to time, we may engage in discussions concerning acquisition opportunities and, as a result of such discussions, may enter into acquisition transactions. Upon the announcement of an acquisition, our share price may fall depending on numerous factors, including but not limited to, the intended target, the size of the acquisition, the purchase price and the potential dilution to existing shareholders. It is also possible that an acquisition could dilute earnings per share. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including the following:• difficulties in the integration of the acquired business;• assumption of unknown material liabilities, including deficient provisions for unpaid claims;• diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns;• failure to achieve financial or operating objectives; and• potential loss of policyholders or key employees of acquired companies.We may be unable to integrate or profitably operate any business, operations, personnel, services or products we may acquire in the future, which may result in our inability to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and other projected benefits from the acquisition. Integration may result in the loss of key employees, disruption to our existing businesses or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise harm our ability to retain customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Time and resources spent on integration may also impair our ability to grow our existing businesses. Also, the negative effect of any financial commitments required by regulatory authorities or rating agencies in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. 19Provisions in our organizational documents, corporate laws and the insurance laws of Illinois, Missouri and other states could impede an attempt to replace or remove management or directors or prevent or delay a merger or sale, which could diminish the value of our shares.Our Memorandum of Association, Articles of Association and Code of Regulations and the corporate laws and the insurance laws of various states contain provisions that could impede an attempt to replace or remove management or directors or prevent the sale of the insurance subsidiaries that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include, among others:•requiring a vote of holders of 5% of the ordinary shares to call a special meeting of shareholders;•requiring a two-thirds vote to amend the Articles of Association;•requiring the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of shares represented at a special meeting of shareholders; and•statutory requirements prohibiting a merger, consolidation, combination or majority share acquisition between insurance subsidiaries and an interested shareholder or an affiliate of an interested shareholder without regulatory approval.These provisions may prevent shareholders from receiving the benefit of any premium over the market price of our shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover, and may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts. In addition, insurance regulatory provisions may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders may consider in their best interest. For example, under applicable state statutes, subject to limited exceptions, no person or entity may, directly or indirectly, acquire control of a domestic insurer without the prior approval of the state insurance regulator. Under the insurance laws, “control” (including the terms “controlling,” “controlled by” and “under common control with”) is generally defined to include acquisition of a certain percentage or more of an insurer’s voting securities (such as 10% or more under Illinois and Missouri law). These requirements would require a potential bidder to obtain prior approval from the insurance departments of the states in which the insurance subsidiaries are domiciled and commercially domiciled and may require pre-acquisition notification in other states. Obtaining these approvals could result in material delays or deter any such transaction. Regulatory requirements could make a potential acquisition of our company more difficult and may prevent shareholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. Market and Competition RisksBecause the insurance subsidiaries are commercial automobile insurers, conditions in that industry could adversely affect their business.The majority of the gross premiums written by our insurance subsidiaries are generated from commercial automobile insurance policies. Adverse developments in the market for commercial automobile insurance, including those which could result from potential declines in commercial and economic activity, could cause our results of operations to suffer. The commercial automobile insurance industry is cyclical. Historically, the industry has been characterized by periods of price competition and excess capacity followed by periods of higher premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity. These fluctuations in the business cycle have negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact the revenues of our company. The results of the insurance subsidiaries, and in turn, us, may also be affected by risks, to the extent they are covered by the insurance policies we issue, that impact the commercial automobile industry related to severe weather conditions, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes and tsunamis, as well as explosions, terrorist attacks and riots. The insurance subsidiaries’ commercial automobile insurance business may also be affected by cost trends that negatively impact profitability, such as a continuing economic downturn, inflation in vehicle repair costs, vehicle replacement parts costs, used vehicle prices, fuel costs and medical care costs. Increased costs related to the handling and litigation of claims may also negatively impact profitability. Legacy business previously written by us also includes private passenger auto, surety and other P&C insurance business. Adverse developments relative to previously written or current business could have a negative impact on our results.The insurance and related businesses in which we operate may be subject to periodic negative publicity which may negatively impact our financial results.20The products and services of the insurance subsidiaries are ultimately distributed to individual and business customers. From time to time, consumer advocacy groups or the media may focus attention on insurance products and services, thereby subjecting the industry to periodic negative publicity. We also may be negatively impacted if participants in one or more of our markets engage in practices resulting in increased public attention to our business. Negative publicity may also result in increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of practices in the P&C insurance industry as well as increased litigation. These factors may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products and services, requiring us to change our products or services or by increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate.The highly competitive environment in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.The commercial automobile insurance business is highly competitive and, except for regulatory considerations, there are relatively few barriers to entry. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and may enjoy better name recognition, substantially greater financial resources, higher ratings by rating agencies, broader and more diversified product lines and more widespread agency relationships than us. Our underwriting profits could be adversely impacted if new entrants or existing competitors try to compete with our products, services and programs or offer similar or better products at or below our prices. Insurers in our markets generally compete on the basis of price, consumer recognition, coverages offered, claims handling, financial stability, customer service and geographic coverage. Although pricing is influenced to some degree by that of our competitors, it is not in our best interest to compete solely on price, and we may from time to time experience a loss of market share during periods of intense price competition. Our business could be adversely impacted by the loss of business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices. This competition could affect our ability to attract and retain profitable business. Pricing sophistication and related underwriting and marketing programs use a number of risk evaluation factors. For auto insurance, these factors can include but are not limited to vehicle make, model and year; driver age; territory; years licensed; loss history; years insured with prior carrier; prior liability limits; prior lapse in coverage; and insurance scoring based on credit report information. We believe our pricing model will generate future underwriting profits, however past performance is not a perfect indicator of future driver performance.If we are not able to attract and retain independent agents and brokers, our revenues could be negatively affected.We market and distribute our insurance programs exclusively through independent insurance agents and specialty insurance brokers. As a result, our business depends in large part on the marketing efforts of these agents and brokers and on our ability to offer insurance products and services that meet the requirements of the agents, the brokers and their customers. However, these agents and brokers are not obligated to sell or promote our products and many sell or promote competitors’ insurance products in addition to our products. Some of our competitors have higher financial strength ratings, offer a larger variety of products, set lower prices for insurance coverage and/or offer higher commissions than we do. Therefore, we may not be able to continue to attract and retain independent agents and brokers to sell our insurance products. The failure or inability of independent agents and brokers to market our insurance products successfully could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If we are unable to maintain our claims-paying ratings, our ability to write insurance and to compete with other insurance companies may be adversely impacted. A decline in rating could adversely affect our position in the insurance market, make it more difficult to market our insurance products and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease.Financial ratings are an important factor influencing the competitive position of insurance companies. Third party rating agencies assess and rate the claims-paying ability of insurers and reinsurers based upon criteria that they have established. Periodically these rating agencies evaluate the business to confirm that it continues to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned. Financial strength ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and may be expected to have an effect on an insurance company’s premiums. The insurance subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best, which issues independent opinions of an insurer’s financial strength and its ability to meet policyholder obligations. A.M. Best ratings range from “A++” (Superior) to “F” (In Liquidation), with a total of 16 separate rating categories. The objective of A.M. Best’s rating system is to provide potential policyholders and other interested parties an opinion of an insurer’s financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations, including paying claims.On January 29, 2014, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating of American Country, American Service and Gateway as “B” and the outlook assigned to all ratings is “Stable.” However, there is a risk that A.M. Best will not maintain these ratings in the future. If the insurance subsidiaries’ ratings are reduced by A.M. Best, their competitive position in the insurance industry could suffer and it could be more difficult to market their insurance products. A downgrade could result in a significant reduction in the number of insurance contracts written by the subsidiaries and in a substantial loss of business to other competitors with higher ratings, causing premiums and earnings to decrease. Rating agencies evaluate insurance companies based on financial strength and the ability to pay claims, factors that may be more relevant to policyholders than to investors. Financial strength 21ratings by rating agencies are not ratings of securities or recommendations to buy, hold or sell any security and should not be relied upon as such.Our ability to generate written premiums is impacted by seasonality which may cause fluctuations in our operating results and to our stock price. The P&C insurance business is seasonal in nature. Our ability to generate written premium is also impacted by the timing of policy effective periods in the states in which we operate while our net premiums earned generally follow a relatively smooth trend from quarter to quarter. Also, our gross premiums written are impacted by certain common renewal dates in larger metropolitan markets for the light commercial risks that represent our core lines of business. For example, January 1st and March 1st are common taxi cab renewal dates in Illinois and New York, respectively. Additionally, we implemented our New York “excess taxi program” in the third quarter of 2012, which had a renewal date in the third quarter 2013. Net underwriting income is driven mainly by the timing and nature of claims, which can vary widely. As a result of this seasonality, investors may not be able to predict our annual operating results based on a quarter-to-quarter comparison of our operating results. Additionally, this seasonality may cause fluctuations in our stock price. We believe seasonality will have an ongoing impact on our business.U.S. Tax RisksIf our company were not to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, certain tax inefficiencies would result and certain adverse tax rules would apply.Pursuant to certain “expatriation” provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the reverse merger agreement relating to the reverse merger transaction described below provides that the parties intend to treat our company as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The expatriation provisions are complex, are largely unsettled and subject to differing interpretations, and are subject to change, perhaps retroactively. If our company were not to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, certain tax inefficiencies and adverse tax consequences and reporting requirements would result for both our company and the recipients and holders of stock in our company, including that dividend distributions from our insurance subsidiaries to us would be subject to 30% U.S. withholding tax, with no available reduction and that members of the consolidated group may not be permitted to file a consolidated U.S. tax return resulting in the acceleration of cash tax outflow and potential permanent loss of tax benefits associated with net operating loss carry-forwards that could have otherwise been utilized.Our use of losses may be subject to limitations and the tax liability of our company may be increased.Our ability to utilize the net operating loss carryforwards ("NOLs") is subject to the rules of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 382 generally restricts the use of NOLs after an “ownership change.” An ownership change occurs if, among other things, the stockholders (or specified groups of stockholders) who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, five percent (5%) or more of our common stock or are otherwise treated as five percent (5%) stockholders under Section 382 and the regulations promulgated thereunder increase their aggregate percentage ownership of our stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by these stockholders over a three-year rolling period. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of taxable income a corporation may offset with NOL carryforwards. This annual limitation is generally equal to the product of the value of our stock on the date of the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate published monthly by the Internal Revenue Service. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration date for the respective NOL carryforwards.The rules of Section 382 are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Because of our numerous equity issuances, which have included the issuance of various classes of convertible securities and warrants, uncertainty exists as to whether we may have undergone an ownership change in the past or will undergo one as a result of our recent U.S. public offering. Even if this offering does not cause an ownership change, it may increase the likelihood that we may undergo an ownership change in the future. Based on our recent stock prices, we believe any ownership change would limit our ability to utilize the portion of our NOLs that are currently not subject to limitation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that our NOLs will be fully realizable since this is contingent on our ability to generate profits in future years. As a result, we could pay taxes earlier and in larger amounts than would be the case if the NOLs were available to reduce the federal income taxes without restriction. On July 22, 2013, as a result of shareholder activity, a "triggering event" as determined under IRC Section 382 was reached. As a result, under IRC Section 382, the use of the Company's net operating loss and other carryforwards will be limited as a result of this "ownership change” for tax purposes, which is defined as a cumulative change of more than 50% during any three-year period by shareholders of the Company's shares. 22Following this triggering event, the Company estimates that it will retain total tax effected federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $15.3 million as of December 31, 2013. Book value per common share is unaffected by this event as the amount of lost net deferred tax assets were offset by a corresponding decrease in the valuation allowance which was already held against the majority of these assets. The completion and filing of the Company's 2013 U.S. Federal tax return will determine the final adjustment. Atlas has the following total net operating loss carry-forwards as of the year ended December 31, 2013:Net Operating Loss Carry-Forward by Expiry (in ‘000s)Year of OccurrenceYear of ExpirationAmount20012021$11,378200220224,317200620267,825200720273,763200820281,949200920291,949201020302,2962011203110,183201220321,237Total $44,897Further limitations on the utilization of losses may apply because of the “dual consolidated loss” rules, which will also require our company to recapture into income the amount of any such utilized losses in certain circumstances. As a result of the application of these rules, the future tax liability of our company and our insurance subsidiaries could be significantly increased. In addition, taxable income may also be recognized by our company or our insurance subsidiaries in connection with the 2010 reverse merger transaction.We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future.We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, for the foreseeable future, for working capital and other general corporate purposes. We do not intend to pay any dividends to holders of our ordinary shares. As a result, capital appreciation in the price of our ordinary shares, if any, will be your only source of gain on an investment in our ordinary shares. We did not declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock during 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 or to date in 2014. Any future determination to pay dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable laws, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. In addition, the insurance laws and regulations governing our insurance subsidiaries contain restrictions on the ability to pay dividends, or to make other distributions to us, which may limit our ability to pay dividends to our common shareholders.Holders of our preferred shares are entitled to dividends on a cumulative basis whether or not declared by our board of directors, at a rate of $0.045 per preferred share per year, which must be paid or declared and set apart before any dividend may be paid on our ordinary shares. We declared and paid $2.1 million of preferred dividends during 2013 on the preferred shares held by KAI. All of the preferred shares held by KAI were repurchased on August 1, 2013, and therefore, no additional dividends will accrue on the KAI preferred shares, however, dividends on the remaining 2,000,000 outstanding preferred shares will continue to accrue dividends at the rate indicated above.Risks Related to Our Recent Initial Public Offering in the United StatesThe requirements of being a United States public company may strain our resources and divert management’s attention.As a United States public company, we will be subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (which we refer to herein as the Exchange Act), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and operating 23results. We may need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants to comply with these requirements, which will increase our costs and expenses.In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards in the United States relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business and operating results may be adversely affected.For as long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (which we refer to herein as the JOBS Act), we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies,” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.”We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although if the market value of our ordinary shares that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30th before that time, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of the following December 31st.As a result of disclosure of information in this Form 10-K and in filings required of a public company in the United States, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition will become more visible, which may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and adversely affect our business and operating results.We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for these shares and our stock price may be more volatile.Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an “emerging growth company” can take advantage of an extended transaction period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. However, we are choosing to “opt out” of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.24