ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes, before deciding whether to purchase shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks is realized, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have incurred operating losses in the past and may incur operating losses in the future. We began our operations in 2000. Throughout most of our history, we have experienced net losses and negative cash flows from operations. As of February 28, 2014 and February 28, 2013, we had accumulated deficits of $366.3 million and $341.2 million. We expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our operations. Furthermore, as a public company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. If our revenue does not grow to offset these increased expenses, we will not be profitable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability. You should not consider recent revenue growth as indicative of our future performance. If we are unable to attract new customers or sell additional products to our existing customers, our revenue growth and profitability will be adversely affected. To increase our revenue and achieve and maintain profitability, we must regularly add new customers or sell additional solutions to our existing customers, which we plan to do. Numerous factors, however, may impede our ability to add new customers and sell additional solutions to our existing customers, including our inability to convert companies that have been referred to us by our existing network into paying customers, failure to attract and effectively train new sales and marketing personnel, failure to retain and motivate our current sales and marketing personnel, failure to develop relationships with resellers or failure to ensure the effectiveness of our marketing programs. In addition, if prospective customers do not perceive our solutions to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we will not be able to attract the number and types of new customers that we are seeking. If we are unable to attract and enable third-party service providers, our revenue and margin growth will be adversely affected. To enable anticipated growth of product subscriptions, E2open intends to utilize partners to provide integration and deployment services. This strategy depends upon successful marketing to and recruitment of partners. It also assumes successful training and transfer of the knowledge and skills required to deploy system integration and software functionality. We cannot assure the recruitment of sufficient partners to meet anticipated demand or that those partners who are recruited can be made effective substitutes for internal professional services resources. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of customers, and our growth depends on our ability to retain existing customers and add new customers. We derive a significant percentage of our revenue from a relatively small number of customers, and the loss of any one or more of those customers for any reason, including without limitation, early termination of our contract with them could decrease our revenue and harm our current and future results of operations. For fiscal 2014, our top ten customers accounted for 53.5% of our total revenue. For fiscal 2013, our top ten customers accounted for 68.4% of our total revenue, and two customers each accounted for at least 10% of our total revenue; BlackBerry accounted for 14.9% and Vodafone accounted for 12.1% of our total revenue. Although our largest customers may vary from period to period, we anticipate that we will continue to depend on revenue from a relatively small number of customers. 11 Table of Contents We encounter long sales cycles, particularly with our larger customers, and seasonality in sales, which could have an adverse effect on the amount, timing and predictability of our revenue. Our products have lengthy sales cycles, which typically extend from four to 12 months and may, in some instances, take longer than one year. Potential and existing customers, particularly larger enterprises, often commit significant resources to an evaluation of available solutions and services and require us to expend substantial time and resources in connection with our sales efforts. The length of our sales cycles also varies depending on the type of customer to which we are selling, the product being sold and customer requirements. We may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort during this time, regardless of whether we make a sale. Many of the risks relating to sales processes are beyond our control, including: • Our customers’ budgetary and scheduling constraints; • The timing of our customers’ budget cycles and approval processes; • Our customers’ willingness to augment or replace their currently deployed software products; and • General economic conditions. As a result of the lengthy and uncertain sales cycles of our products and services, it is difficult for us to predict when customers may purchase products or services from us, thereby affecting when we can recognize the associated revenue, and our results of operations may vary significantly and may be adversely affected. The length of our sales cycle makes us susceptible to having pending transactions delayed or terminated by our customers if they decide to delay or withdraw funding for information technology, projects. Our customers may decide to delay or withdraw funding for various reasons, including global economic cycles and capital market fluctuations. In addition, we may experience seasonality in the sales of our solutions. For instance, historically, the agreements we have signed in our fiscal first quarter have had an aggregate value less than that of the agreements signed in our preceding fiscal fourth quarter. Seasonal variations in our sales may lead to significant fluctuations in our cash flows and deferred revenue on a quarterly basis. If we fail to sign a significant customer agreement in any particular quarter, then our results of operations for such quarter and for subsequent quarters may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which may result in a decline in our stock price. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investors or securities analysts which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below: • Demand for and market acceptance of our products; • Our ability to retain and increase sales to customers and attract new customers; • The timing of product deployment which determines when we can recognize the associated revenue; • The timing and success of introductions of new solutions or upgrades by us or our competitors; • The strength of the economy; • Changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • Competition, including entry into the industry by new competitors and new offerings by existing competitors; • The impact of seasonality on our business; 12 Table of Contents • The amount and timing of expenditures related to expanding our operations, research and development or introducing new solutions; and • Changes in the payment terms for our solutions. Due to the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this report, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. We operate in an emerging and evolving market, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. If this market does not develop or develops more slowly than we expect, our revenue may decline or fail to grow, and we may incur additional operating losses. The market for trading network solutions, including our integrated platform, is in an early stage of development, and it is uncertain how rapidly this market will develop, and even if it does develop, whether our software and solutions will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Some companies may be reluctant or unwilling to use our solutions for a number of reasons, including existing investments in demand and supply network management technology. For example, supply chain management functions traditionally have been performed using purchased or licensed hardware and software implemented by each company in the supply chain. Because this traditional approach often requires significant initial investments to purchase the necessary technology and to establish systems that comply with customers’ unique requirements, suppliers may be unwilling to abandon their current options for our integrated, multi-enterprise solution. Other factors that may limit market acceptance of our solutions include: • Our ability to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction; • Our ability to maintain availability of service across all users of our products; • The price, performance and availability of competing products; and • Our ability to address confidentiality concerns about information stored outside of our customers’ controlled computing environments. • Concerns about data protection and confidentiality of data stored in the United States, for customers with headquarters outside of the US. If companies do not perceive or value the benefits of our solutions, or if companies are unwilling to accept our platform as an alternative to the traditional approach, the market for our products might not continue to develop or might develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would significantly adversely affect our revenue and growth prospects. Downturns in general economic and market conditions and reductions in IT spending may reduce demand for our solutions, which could negatively affect our revenue, results of operations and cash flows. Our revenue, results of operations and cash flows depend on the overall demand for our solutions. Concerns about the systemic impact of a potential widespread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, and the availability of credit have contributed to increased market volatility, decreased consumer confidence and diminished growth expectations in the U.S. economy and abroad. This in turn has resulted in reductions in IT spending by some of our customers. Further worsening, broadening or protracted extension of the economic downturn could have a significant negative impact on our business, revenue, results of operations and cash flows. Prolonged economic slowdowns may result in customers requiring us to renegotiate existing contracts on less advantageous terms to us than those currently in place or defaulting on payments due on existing contracts. 13 Table of Contents Furthermore, during weak economic times, there is an increased risk that one or more of our customers will file for bankruptcy protection, which may adversely affect our revenue, profitability and results of operations. If a customer files for bankruptcy, we may be required to forego collection of pre-petition amounts owed and to repay amounts remitted to us during the 90-day preference period preceding the filing, which may be significant due to extended payment terms for software contract fees, and significant billings for professional services on large projects. We also face risk from international customers that file for bankruptcy protection in foreign jurisdictions, in that the outcome of the application of foreign bankruptcy laws may be more difficult to predict. In addition, we may determine that the cost of pursuing any claim may outweigh the recovery potential of such claim. If we are unable to develop new products and services, sell our solutions into new markets or further penetrate our existing markets, our revenue will not grow as expected. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our solutions, to introduce new products and services in a timely manner, to sell into new markets and to further penetrate our existing markets. The success of any enhancement or new product or service depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the enhancement or new product or service. Any new product or service we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. Any new markets into which we attempt to sell our solutions, including new vertical markets and new countries or regions, may not be receptive. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new products or services, enhance our existing products or services to meet customer requirements, sell products and services into new markets or sell our products and services to additional customers in our existing markets, our revenue will not grow as expected. Moreover, we are frequently required to enhance and update our products and services as a result of changing standards and technological developments, which makes it difficult to recover the cost of development and forces us to continually qualify new products with our customers. If we do not maintain the compatibility of our solutions with third-party applications that our customers use in their business processes, demand for our solutions could decline. Our solutions can be used alongside a wide range of other systems, such as enterprise software systems and business software applications used by our customers in their businesses. If we do not support the continued integration of our solutions with third-party applications, including through the provision of application programming interfaces that enable data to be transferred readily between our solutions and third-party applications, demand for our solutions could decline, and we could lose sales. We will also be required to make our solutions compatible with new or additional third-party applications that are introduced into the markets that we serve. We may not be successful in making our solutions compatible with these third-party applications, which could reduce demand for our solutions. In addition, prospective customers, especially large enterprise customers, may require heavily customized features and functions unique to their business processes. If prospective customers require customized features or functions that we do not offer, then the market for our solutions will be adversely affected. Our inability to adapt to rapid technological change could impair our ability to remain competitive. The industry in which we compete is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent introductions of new products and evolving industry standards. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from customers will depend in significant part on our ability to anticipate industry standards and to continue to enhance existing solutions or introduce or acquire new solutions on a timely basis to keep pace with technological developments. The success of any enhancement or new solution depends on several factors, including the timely completion and market acceptance of the enhancement or new solution. Any new solution we develop or acquire might not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and might not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If any of our competitors implements new 14 Table of Contents technologies before we are able to implement them, those competitors may be able to provide more effective solutions than ours at lower prices. Any delay or failure in the introduction of new or enhanced solutions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our solutions are complex and customers may experience difficulty in implementing or upgrading our products successfully or otherwise achieving the benefits attributable to our products. Due to the scope and complexity of the solutions that we provide, our implementation cycle can be lengthy and unpredictable. Our products may require modification or customization and must integrate with many existing computer systems and software programs of our customers and their trading partners. This can be time-consuming and expensive for our customers and can result in delays in the implementation and deployment of our products. As a result, some customers have had, and may in the future have, difficulty implementing our products successfully or otherwise achieving the expected benefits of our products. Delayed or ineffective implementation or upgrades of our software may limit our future sales opportunities, impact revenue, delay deployment of security patches, result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. The markets in which we participate are highly competitive, and our failure to compete successfully would make it difficult for us to add and retain customers and would reduce or impede the growth of our business. The markets for supply chain management solutions are increasingly competitive and global. We expect competition to increase in the future both from existing competitors and new companies that may enter our markets. Increased competition could result in pricing pressure, reduced sales, lower margins or the failure of our solutions to achieve or maintain broad market acceptance. We currently face, or may face in the future, competition from: • SaaS providers that deliver B2B information systems; • Traditional on-premise software providers; and • Managed service providers that combine traditional on-premise software with professional information technology services. To remain competitive, we will need to invest continuously in software development, marketing, customer service and support and product delivery infrastructure. However, we cannot assure you that new or established competitors will not offer solutions that are superior to or lower in price than ours. We may not have sufficient resources to continue the investments in all areas of software development and marketing needed to maintain our competitive position. In addition, some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than us, which may provide them with an advantage in developing, marketing or servicing new solutions. Increased competition could reduce our market share, revenue and operating margins, increase our operating costs and otherwise adversely affect our business. If we are unable to manage our diverse and complex operations, our reputation in the market and our ability to generate revenue from new or existing customers may be adversely affected. Because our operations are geographically diverse and complex, our personnel resources and infrastructure could become strained and our reputation in the market and our ability to successfully implement our business plan may be adversely affected. We have experienced a period of rapid growth in our headcount and operations. From February 28, 2013 to February 28, 2014, our employee headcount grew from 379 to 444. The growth in the size, complexity and diverse nature of our business and the expansion of our product lines and customer base have placed increased demands on our management and operations, and further growth, if any, may place additional strains on our resources in the future. Our ability to effectively compete and to manage our planned future growth will depend on, among other things, the following: • Maintaining continuity in our senior management and key personnel; • Increasing the productivity of our existing employees; 15 Table of Contents • Attracting, retaining, training and motivating our employees, particularly our technical and management personnel; • Deploying our solutions using third-party systems integrators, which will require changes to our applications, documentation and operational processes; • Improving our operational, financial and management controls; and • Improving our information reporting systems and procedures. If we do not manage the size, complexity and diverse nature of our business effectively, we could experience delayed software releases and longer response times for assisting our customers with implementation of our products and services, and could lack adequate resources to support our customers on an ongoing basis, any of which could adversely affect our reputation in the market, our ability to successfully implement our business plan and our ability to generate revenue from new or existing customers. If we fail to retain our key employees, our business would be harmed and we might not be able to implement our business plan successfully. Given the complex nature of the technology on which our business is based and the speed with which such technology advances, our future success is dependent, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, technical and sales personnel. In particular, Mark E. Woodward, our Chief Executive Officer, is critical to the management of our business and operations. Competition for talented personnel is intense, and we cannot be certain that we can retain our managerial, technical and sales personnel or that we can attract, assimilate or retain such personnel in the future. Our inability to attract and retain such personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our growth is dependent upon the continued development of our direct sales force. We believe that our future growth will depend on the continued development of our direct sales force and their ability to obtain new customers, particularly large enterprise customers, and to manage our existing customer base. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of direct sales personnel. New sales personnel require significant training and may, in some cases, take more than a year before becoming productive, if at all. If we are unable to hire and develop sufficient numbers of productive direct sales personnel, sales of our software and services will suffer and our growth will be impeded. If we experience significant fluctuations in our rate of anticipated growth and fail to balance our expenses with our revenue forecasts, our results could be harmed. Due to our evolving business model and the unpredictability of future general economic and financial market conditions, we may not be able to accurately forecast our rate of growth. We plan our expense levels and investment on estimates of future revenue and future anticipated rate of growth. We may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if the addition of new subscriptions or the renewal rate for existing subscriptions falls short of our expectations. As a result, we expect that our revenues, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our revenues, operating results and cash flows may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Interruptions or delays in the services provided by third-party data centers and/or internet service providers could impair the delivery of our solutions and our business could suffer. In North America, we host our solutions at Equinix co-location facilities in Sunnyvale and San Jose, California and a suburb of Chicago, Illinois. Exostar hosts our solutions for the aerospace and defense industry at 16 Table of Contents third-party data centers and with third-party internet service providers outside of Washington, D.C. All of our solutions reside on hardware owned or leased and operated by us and Exostar at these locations. In China, we host our solutions at a data center in Shanghai operated by Shanghai Telecom. Our operations depend on the protection of the equipment and information we store in these third-party data centers and which third-party internet service providers transmit against damage or service interruptions that may be caused by fire, flood, severe storm, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion, computer viruses and disabling devices, natural disasters, war, criminal act, military action, terrorist attack and other similar events beyond our control. A prolonged service disruption affecting our solutions for any of the foregoing reasons could damage our reputation with current and potential customers, expose us to liability, cause us to lose customers from whom we receive recurring revenue or otherwise adversely affect our business. We may also incur significant costs for using alternative equipment or taking other actions in preparation for, or in reaction to, events that damage the data centers we use. Our solutions are accessed by a large number of customers often at the same time. As we continue to expand the number of our customers and solutions available to our customers, we may not be able to scale our technology to accommodate the increased capacity requirements, which may result in interruptions or delays in service. In addition, the failure of our third-party data centers or third-party internet service providers to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruptions or delays in access to our solutions or impede our ability to scale our operations. In the event that our data center or third-party internet service provider arrangements are terminated, or there is a lapse of service, interruption of internet service provider connectivity, or damage to such facilities, we could experience interruptions in access to our solutions as well as delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities and services. We may experience service failures or interruptions due to defects in the software, infrastructure, third-party components or processes that comprise our existing or new solutions, any of which could adversely affect our business. Our products may contain undetected defects in the software, infrastructure, third-party components or processes that are part of the solutions we provide. If these defects lead to service failures after introduction of a solution or an upgrade to the solution, we could experience delays or lost revenue during the period required to correct the cause of the defects. We cannot be certain that defects will not be found in new solutions or upgraded solutions, resulting in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because customers use our solutions for critical business processes, any defect in our solutions, any disruption to our solutions or any error in execution could cause recurring revenue customers to cancel their contracts with us, prevent potential customers from purchasing our solutions and harm our reputation. Although our contracts with our customers limit our liability to our customers for these defects, disruptions or errors, we nonetheless could be subject to litigation for actual or alleged losses to our customers’ businesses, which may require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or arbitration or to pay significant settlements or damages. We do not currently maintain any warranty reserves. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management’s attention and could cause our business to suffer. The insurers under our existing liability insurance policy could deny coverage of a future claim that results from an error or defect in our technology or a resulting disruption in our solutions, or our existing liability insurance might not be adequate to cover all of the damages and other costs of such a claim. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our current liability insurance coverage will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. The successful assertion against us of one or more large claims that exceeds our insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our liability insurance policy, including an increase in premiums or imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we succeed in litigation with respect to a claim, we are likely to incur substantial costs and our management’s attention will be diverted from our operations. 17 Table of Contents We may be required to defer recognition of some of our revenue, which may adversely affect our financial results in any given period. We may be required to defer recognition of revenue for a significant period of time after entering into an agreement due to a variety of factors, including whether: • The transaction involves both current on-demand software solutions and on-demand software solutions that are under development; • The customer requires significant modifications, configurations or complex interfaces that could delay delivery or acceptance of our solutions; • The transaction involves extended payment terms; • The transaction involves acceptance criteria or other terms that may delay revenue recognition; or • The transaction involves performance milestones or payment terms that depend upon contingencies. Because of these factors and other specific revenue recognition requirements under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”), we must have very precise terms in our contracts in order to recognize revenue when we initially provide access to our software solutions or perform services. Although we strive to enter into agreements that meet the criteria under GAAP for current revenue recognition on delivered elements, our agreements are often subject to negotiation and revision based on the demands of our customers. The final terms of our agreements sometimes result in deferred revenue recognition well after the time of delivery, which may adversely affect our financial results in any given period. In addition, because of prevailing economic conditions, more customers may require extended payment terms, shorter term contracts or alternative licensing arrangements that could reduce the amount of revenue we recognize upon delivery of our solutions and could adversely affect our short-term profitability. Furthermore, the presentation of our financial results requires us to make estimates and assumptions that may affect revenue recognition. In some instances, we could reasonably use different estimates and assumptions, and changes in estimates are likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. If we are unable to substantially utilize our net operating loss carryforward, our future cash tax liability may increase . As of February 28, 2014, our net operating loss (“NOL”), carryforward amounts for U.S. federal income and state tax purposes were approximately $340.9 million and $69.2 million. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” may be subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders (generally 5% stockholders, applying certain look-through and aggregation rules) increases by more than 50% over such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). We believe that there was an ownership change in a prior year, which resulted in an annual NOL limitation. In addition, new issuances of our common stock, which is within our control, and purchases of our common stock in amounts greater than specified levels, which will be beyond our control, could create an additional limitation on our ability to utilize our NOLs for tax purposes in the future. Limitations imposed on our ability to utilize NOLs could cause U.S. federal and state income taxes to be paid earlier than would be paid if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. Furthermore, we may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to utilize our NOLs before they expire. If any of these events occur, we may not derive some or all of the benefits from our NOLs. In addition, at the state level there may be periods during which the use of NOLs is suspended or otherwise limited, which would accelerate or may permanently increase state taxes owed. 18 Table of Contents If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could result in an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. Under GAAP, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. A failure to protect the integrity and security of our customers’ information could expose us to litigation, materially damage our reputation and harm our business. Furthermore, the unanticipated costs of protecting against such a failure could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business involves the collection and use of confidential information of our customers and their trading partners. We cannot assure you that our efforts to protect this confidential information will be successful. If any compromise of this information security were to occur, we could be subject to legal claims and government action, experience an adverse effect on our reputation and need to incur significant additional costs to protect against similar information security breaches in the future, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, because of the critical nature of data security, any perceived breach of our security measures could cause existing or potential customers not to use our solutions and could harm our reputation. Evolving regulation of the Internet may increase our expenditures related to compliance efforts, which may adversely affect our financial condition. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. We are particularly sensitive to these risks because the Internet and cloud computing are critical components of our business model. For example, we believe that increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy on the Internet, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for solutions accessed via the Internet and restricting our ability to store, process and share data with our clients via the Internet. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services, which could harm our business. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights adequately, our business could be adversely affected. We believe that proprietary technology is essential to establishing and maintaining our leadership position. We seek to protect our intellectual property through trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality, non-compete and nondisclosure agreements, patents, trademarks, domain names and other measures, some of which afford only limited protection. We also rely on patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our technology or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We cannot assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar or superior technology or design around our intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States. Intellectual property protections may also be unavailable, limited or difficult to enforce in some countries, which 19 Table of Contents could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. An assertion by a third party that we are infringing its intellectual property could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses which could harm our business. The industries in which we compete are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we seek to extend our solutions, we could be constrained by the intellectual property rights of others. In addition, our customer contracts require us to indemnify our customers against certain liabilities they may incur as a result of our infringement of any third-party intellectual property. We might not prevail in any intellectual property infringement litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in such litigation. Defending such claims, regardless of their merit, could be time-consuming and distracting to management, result in costly litigation or settlement, cause development delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Furthermore, if our solutions exceed the scope of in-bound licenses or violate any third-party proprietary rights, we could be required to withdraw those solutions from the market, re-develop those solutions or seek to obtain licenses from third parties, which might not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Any efforts to re-develop our solutions, obtain licenses from third parties on favorable terms or license a substitute technology might not be successful and, in any case, might substantially increase our costs and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were compelled to withdraw any of our solutions from the market, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. The use of open source software in our products may expose us to additional risks and harm our intellectual property. We incorporate open source software into our platform. Given the nature of open source software, third parties might assert copyright and other intellectual property infringement claims against us based on our use of certain open source software programs. The terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that those licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions. In that event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our solutions, to re-develop our solutions, to discontinue sales of our solutions or to release our proprietary software code under the terms of an open source license, any of which could adversely affect our business. Some of our products use or incorporate software that is subject to one or more open source licenses. Open source software is typically freely accessible, usable and modifiable. Certain open source software licenses require a user who intends to distribute the open source software as a component of the user’s software to disclose publicly part or all of the source code to the user’s software. In addition, certain open source software licenses require the user of such software to make any derivative works of the open source code available to others on unfavorable terms or at no cost. This can subject previously proprietary software to open source license terms. While we monitor the use of all open source software in our products, processes and technology and try to ensure that no open source software is used in such a way as to require us to disclose the source code to the related product or solution when we do not wish to do so, such use may have inadvertently occurred in deploying our proprietary solutions. Additionally, if a third-party software provider has incorporated certain types of open source software into software we license from such third party for our products and solutions, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to disclose the source code to our products and solutions. This could harm our intellectual property position and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Our strategy includes pursuing acquisitions and our potential inability to successfully integrate newly-acquired companies or businesses may adversely affect our financial results. We believe part of our growth will be driven by acquisitions of other companies or their businesses. Any acquisitions we complete will give rise to risks, including: • Incurring significantly higher than anticipated capital expenditures and operating expenses; • Failing to assimilate the operations and personnel or failing to retain the key personnel of the acquired company or business; • Failing to integrate the acquired technologies, or incurring significant expense to integrate acquired technologies into our solutions; • Disrupting our ongoing business; • Incurring significant accounting charges; • Dissipating our management resources; • Failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies; • Impairing relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management; • Finding that the acquired company, asset or technology does not further our business strategy, that we overpaid for the company, asset or technology or that we may be required to write off acquired assets or investments partially or entirely; • Not realizing the expected synergies of the transaction; • Facing delays in customer purchases due to difficulty in retaining customers of acquired businesses; • Exposure to unforeseen liabilities and contingencies that were not identified prior to acquiring the company; and • An inability to generate sufficient revenue from acquisitions to offset the associated acquisition costs. Fully integrating an acquired company or business into our operations may take a significant amount of time. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered with acquisitions. To the extent we do not successfully avoid or overcome the risks or problems related to any acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Acquisitions also could impact our financial position and capital needs, and could cause substantial fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results of operations. Acquisitions could include significant goodwill and intangible assets, which may result in future impairment charges that would reduce our stated earnings. We may incur significant costs in our efforts to engage in strategic transactions and these expenditures may not result in successful acquisitions. Future acquisitions of technologies or companies, which are paid for partially or entirely through the issuance of stock or stock rights, could dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. We expect that the consideration we might pay for any future acquisitions of companies or technologies could include stock, rights to purchase stock, cash or some combination of the foregoing. In July 2013, we issued 451,593 shares of our common stock as partial consideration in connection with the acquisition of ICON. If we issue stock or rights to purchase stock in connection with future acquisitions, net income (loss) per share will be reduced and then-existing holders of our common stock may experience dilution. Mergers or other strategic transactions involving our competitors could weaken our competitive position, which could harm our results of operations. Our industry is highly fragmented, and we believe it is likely that some of our existing competitors will consolidate or will be acquired. In addition, some of our competitors may enter into new alliances with each 21 Table of Contents other or may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with systems integrators, third-party consulting firms or other parties. Any such consolidation, acquisition, alliance or cooperative relationship could lead to pricing pressure and our loss of market share and could result in a competitor with greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not receive significant revenue as a result of our current research and development efforts. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. For the years ended February 28, 2014 and February 28, 2013, we spent $18.5 million and $15.0 million on research and development expenses. High levels of expenditures for research and development could adversely affect our results of operations if not offset by corresponding future revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, it is difficult to estimate when, if ever, we will receive significant revenue as a result of these investments. We incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to attract and retain qualified executives and board members. As a public company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting and corporate governance requirements. These requirements include compliance with Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”), as well as rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), The NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”), and other applicable securities or exchange-related rules and regulations. In addition, our management team also has to adapt to the requirements of being a public company. We expect complying with these rules and regulations will substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The increased costs associated with operating as a public company will decrease our net income or increase our net loss, and may require us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our products or services. Additionally, if these requirements divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, our results of operations could be adversely effected. However, for as long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (“JOBS Act”), we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding an annual nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and seeking nonbinding stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” prior to such time if we have more than $1.0 billion in annual revenue, more than $700 million in market value of our common stock is held by non-affiliates or we issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period. As a public company, we also expect that it may be more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. 22 Table of Contents We rely significantly on recurring revenue, which may decline or fail to be renewed, and our future results of operations could be harmed. Our revenue from subscriptions to our software and software-related support services accounted for approximately 79.2% and 58.4% of our total revenue for the years ended February 28, 2014 and February 28, 2013. Revenue from our subscriptions is recognized over the contractual term of the license, which is typically three to five years, and is generally recurring in nature. Sales of new or recurring subscriptions and software-related support service contracts and renewals after expiration of the initial term may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including end customers’ level of satisfaction with our software solutions, the prices of our software solutions, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. A software industry-wide movement towards shorter contractual license terms led by other SaaS providers, which competitive pressures may compel us to follow, could lead to increased volatility and diminished visibility into future recurring revenue. If our sales of new or recurring subscriptions and software-related support service contracts decline, our revenue and revenue growth may decline, and our business will suffer. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions and support services over the term of the relevant service period, downturns or upturns in sales are not immediately fully reflected in our results of operations. We recognize recurring subscriptions and software-related support services revenue monthly over the term of the relevant service period, which is typically three to five years. As a result, much of the revenue we report each quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from recurring subscriptions and software-related support service contracts entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed recurring subscriptions and software-related support service contracts in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in revenue in that quarter, but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of our recurring subscriptions and software-related support services are not reflected in full in our results of operations until future periods. Revenue from our recurring subscriptions and software-related support services also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional service sales in any period, as revenue from new and renewal software-related service contracts must be recognized over the applicable service period. Our failure to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in new technologies in the future could reduce our ability to compete successfully and adversely affect our results of operations. We may need to raise additional funds, and we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional equity financing, our security holders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the value of shares of our common stock could decline. If we engage in debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios or restrict our ability to pay dividends or make acquisitions. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, if at all, we may not be able to, among other things: • Develop and enhance our solutions; • Continue to expand our technology development, sales and marketing organizations; • Hire, train and retain employees; • Respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements; or • Pursue acquisition opportunities. Our inability to do any of the foregoing could reduce our ability to compete successfully and adversely affect our results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Because our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our solutions to customers located outside of the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. We have limited experience operating in foreign jurisdictions. Conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources. Customers in countries outside of the United States accounted for 25.2% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2014 and 36.0% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2013. Our limited experience in operating our business outside of the United States increases the risk that our current and any future international expansion efforts will not be successful. Conducting international operations subjects us to new risks that, generally, we have not faced in the United States, including: • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • Unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • Longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • Difficulties in managing and staffing international operations, including differences in labor laws; • Potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • Localization of our solutions, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; • The burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards, including laws and regulations related to privacy and data security; • Requirements for regional hosting of customer solutions and data, which may require additional capital expenditures necessary to set up new data centers; • Increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • Political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and • Reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international business and, consequently, our results of operations generally. Additionally, operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required in establishing, acquiring or integrating operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. From time to time, we may become defendants in legal proceedings as to which we are unable to assess our exposure and which could become significant liabilities in the event of an adverse judgment. We may become defendants in legal proceedings from time to time. Companies in our industry have been subject to claims related to patent infringement and product liability, as well as contract and employment-related claims. We may not be able to accurately assess the risk related to these suits, and we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure. We are required to comply with U.S. export control laws and regulations. Noncompliance with those laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our solutions are subject to U.S. export controls and we incorporate encryption technology into certain of our solutions. These encrypted solutions and the underlying technology may be exported outside the United States only with the required export authorizations, including by license, a license exception or other appropriate government authorizations, including the filing of an encryption registration. U.S. export control laws and 24 Table of Contents economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain solutions and services to U.S. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons and complying with export control and sanctions regulations for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Penalties for violations of the U.S. export control laws include fines of up to $250,000 or twice the value of the transaction, whichever is greater, per violation, the possible loss of export or import privileges and criminal action for knowing or willful violations. Further, if our operating partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected, become the subject of government investigations or penalties, and incur reputational harm. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to sell our solutions or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our solutions in those countries. Changes in our solutions or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our solutions in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our solutions globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our solutions to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our solutions by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our solutions to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our solutions or limitation on our ability to export or sell our solutions would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our facilities in California are located near known earthquake faults, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could negatively impact our operations. Our facilities in the San Francisco Bay Area are located near known earthquake fault zones and are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fire, floods, power loss, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities would be seriously, or potentially completely, impaired. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. Accordingly, an earthquake or other disaster could materially and adversely harm our ability to conduct business. We may be subject to additional tax liabilities. We are subject to income, sales, use, value added and other taxes in the United States and other countries in which we conduct business, which such laws and rates vary greatly by jurisdiction. Certain jurisdictions in which we do not collect sales, use, value added or other taxes on our sales may assert that such taxes are applicable, which could result in tax assessments, penalties and interest, and we may be required to collect such taxes in the future. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. These determinations are highly complex and require detailed analysis of the available information and applicable statutes and regulatory materials. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical tax practices, provisions and accruals. If we receive an adverse ruling as a result of an audit, or we unilaterally determine that we have misinterpreted provisions of the tax regulations to which we are subject, there could be a material effect on our tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. In addition, liabilities associated with taxes are often subject to an extended or indefinite statute of limitations period. Therefore, we may be subject to additional tax liability (including penalties and interest) for a particular year for extended periods of time. 25 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock Our share price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including: • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and results of operations; • Overall conditions in our industry and market; • Addition or loss of significant customers; • Changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products; • Actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors; • Announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • Additions or departures of key personnel; • Competition from existing products or new products that may emerge; • Issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts; • Fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; • Disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain intellectual property protection for our technologies; • Sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders; • Share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; • The expiration of contractual lock-up agreements with our executive officers, directors and stockholders; and • General economic and market conditions. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our share price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise 26 Table of Contents capital through the sale of additional equity securities. In addition, certain holders of our shares of common stock will be entitled to rights with respect to registration of such shares under the Securities Act pursuant to a registration rights agreement between such holders and us. If such holders, by exercising their registration rights, sell a large number of shares, the market price for our common stock could be adversely affected. If we file a registration statement for the purpose of selling additional shares to raise capital and are required to include shares held by these holders pursuant to the exercise of their registration rights, our ability to raise capital may be impaired. All of the common stock sold in our IPO in July 2012 is freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, except for any shares held by our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. All of the common stock sold in our secondary offering in January 2014 is freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the Securities Act except for any shares held by our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. As of February 28, 2014, 6,447,117 shares of common stock is restricted as a result of lock-up agreements or other contractual restrictions that restrict transfers for at least 60 days after the date of the secondary offering. We filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register shares for issuance under our 2003 Stock Plan and 2012 Equity Compensation Plan. Our 2012 Equity Compensation Plan provides for automatic increases in the shares reserved for issuance under the plan which could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance and vesting. We may also issue shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with a financing, acquisition or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. As a result of becoming a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain a system of effective internal controls over financial reporting. We may not complete our analysis of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the second annual report we file with the SEC. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting, as well as a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on effectiveness of our internal controls. However, our auditors will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act if we take advantage of the exemptions available to us through the JOBS Act. We are in the very early stages of the costly and challenging process of compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to remediate future material weaknesses, or to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. 27 Table of Contents We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain whether the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding an annual non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and nonbinding stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may become more volatile. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an “emerging growth company” can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an “emerging growth company” can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we have chosen to “opt out” of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of February 28, 2014, our executive officers and directors, and entities that are affiliated with them, beneficially owned (as determined in accordance with the rules of the SEC) an aggregate of 22.4% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our common stock by: • Delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control; • Impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or • Discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that: • Authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; • Require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; 28 Table of Contents • Specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President; • Establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; • Provide that directors may be removed only for cause; • Provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; • Establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes — Class I, Class II and Class III — with each class serving staggered terms; and • Require a super-majority of votes to amend certain of the above-mentioned provisions. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control. These provisions may also frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 