ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSRISK FACTORSYou should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto, before you decide whether to make an investment in our securities. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, cash flows, liquidity, funds from operations, results of operations, share price, ability to service our indebtedness, and/or ability to make cash distributions to our securityholders (including those necessary to maintain our REIT qualification) and unitholders. In such case, the value of our common stock and the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or a significant part of your investment. Some statements in the following risk factors constitute forward looking statements. See the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.”Risks Related to Our Properties and Our BusinessAll of our properties are located in Manhattan and the greater New York metropolitan area, in particular midtown Manhattan, and adverse economic or regulatory developments in this area could materially and adversely affect us.All of our properties are located in Manhattan and the greater New York metropolitan area, in particular midtown Manhattan, as well as nearby markets in Fairfield County, Connecticut and Westchester County, New York. Nine of our 14 office properties are located in midtown Manhattan. As a result, our business is dependent on the condition of the New York City economy in general and the market for office space in midtown Manhattan in particular, which exposes us to greater economic risks than if we owned a more geographically diverse portfolio. We are susceptible to adverse developments in the New York City economic and regulatory environment (such as business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, increases in real estate and other taxes, costs of complying with governmental regulations or increased regulation). Such adverse developments could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our rental revenues, and thus materially and adversely affect our ability to service current debt and to pay distributions to securityholders. We could also be impacted by adverse developments in the Fairfield County, Connecticut and Westchester County, New York markets. We cannot assure you that these markets will grow or that underlying real estate fundamentals will be favorable to owners and operators of office or retail properties. Our operations may also be affected if competing properties are built in either of these markets.Adverse economic and geopolitical conditions in general and in Manhattan and the greater New York metropolitan area commercial office and retail markets in particular, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, ability to service debt and our ability to make distributions to our securityholders.Our business may be affected by the volatility and illiquidity in the financial and credit markets, a general global economic recession and other market or economic challenges experienced by the real estate industry or the U.S. economy as a whole. Our business may also be materially and adversely affected by local economic conditions, as substantially all of our revenues are derived from our properties located in Manhattan and the greater New York metropolitan area, particularly in Manhattan, Fairfield County and Westchester County. Because our portfolio consists primarily of commercial office and retail buildings (as compared to a more diversified real estate portfolio) located principally in Manhattan, if economic conditions persist or deteriorate, then our results of operations, financial condition, ability to service current debt and to make distributions to our securityholders may be materially and adversely affected by the following, among other potential conditions:•the financial condition of our tenants, many of which are consumer goods, financial, legal and other professional firms, may be adversely affected, which may result in tenant defaults under leases due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failures or other reasons; •significant job losses in the financial and professional services industries have occurred and may continue to occur, which may decrease demand for our office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be impacted negatively; •our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities, engage in our redevelopment and repositioning activities and refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increase our future interest expense; •reduced values of our properties may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans; •reduced liquidity in debt markets and increased credit risk premiums for certain market participants may impair our ability to access capital or make such access more expensive; and•the value and liquidity of our short-term investments and cash deposits could be reduced as a result of a deterioration of the financial condition of the institutions that hold our cash deposits or the institutions or assets in which we have 12made short-term investments, the dislocation of the markets for our short-term investments, increased volatility in market rates for such investments or other factors. These conditions may continue or worsen in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our securityholders. There can be no assurance that our redevelopment and repositioning program will be completed in its entirety in accordance with the anticipated timing or at the anticipated cost, or that we will achieve the results we expect from our redevelopment and repositioning program, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We have been undertaking a comprehensive redevelopment and repositioning program of our Manhattan office properties that has included the physical improvement through upgrades and modernization of, and tenant upgrades in, such properties. We currently estimate that between $75.0 million and $115.0 million of capital is needed beyond 2014 to complete substantially the redevelopment and repositioning program of our Manhattan office properties, which we expect to occur by the end of 2016. These estimates are based on our current budgets (which do not include tenant improvements and leasing commissions) and may be less than our actual costs. We may experience conditions which delay or preclude program completion. In addition, we may not be able to lease available space on favorable terms or at all. Further, our redevelopment and repositioning program may lead to temporary increased vacancy rates at the properties undergoing redevelopment. There can be no assurance that our redevelopment and repositioning program will be completed in its entirety in accordance with the anticipated timing or at the anticipated cost, or that we will achieve the results we expect from our redevelopment and repositioning program or that we will be able to achieve anticipated results which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We rely on three properties for a significant portion of our rental revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2014, three of our properties, the Empire State Building, One Grand Central Place and First Stamford Place, together accounted for approximately 54% of our portfolio’s annual rent, and no other property accounted for more than approximately 5.5% of our portfolio’s annual rent (which excludes revenues from our broadcasting licenses and related leased space). For the year ended December 31, 2014, the Empire State Building individually accounted for approximately 33.7% of our portfolio’s annual rent. Our revenue and cash available for distribution to our securityholders would be materially and adversely affected if the Empire State Building, One Grand Central Place or First Stamford Place were materially damaged or destroyed. Additionally, our revenue and cash available for distribution to our securityholders would be materially adversely affected if a significant number of our tenants at these properties experienced a downturn in their business which may weaken their financial condition and result in their failure to make timely rental payments, defaulting under their leases or filing for bankruptcy.The observatory operations at the Empire State Building are not traditional real estate operations, and competition and changes in tourist trends may subject us to additional risks, which could materially and adversely affect us.During the year ended December 31, 2014, we derived approximately $111.5 million of revenue from the Empire State Building’s observatory operations, representing approximately 39.4% of the Empire State Building’s total revenue for this period. Demand for our observatory is highly dependent on domestic and overseas tourists. In addition, competition from observatory operations at One World Trade Center and, to a lesser extent, from the existing observatory at Rockefeller Center, could have a negative impact on revenues from our observatory operations which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our securityholders. Adverse impacts on domestic travel and changes in foreign currency exchange rates may also decrease demand in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our securityholders.We may be unable to renew leases, lease vacant space or re-lease space on favorable terms or at all as leases expire, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 1.0 million rentable square feet of vacant space (excluding leases signed but not yet commenced). In addition, leases representing 10.0% and 7.2% of the square footage of the properties in our portfolio will expire in 2015 and 2016, respectively (including month to month leases). We cannot assure you that expiring leases will be renewed or that our properties will be re-leased at net effective rental rates equal to or above the current average net effective rental rates. Above-market rental rates at some of the properties in our portfolio may force us to renew some expiring leases or re-lease properties at lower rates. If the rental rates of our properties decrease, our existing tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space and space for which leases will expire, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share/unit trading price of our Class A common stock and our traded OP units and our ability to satisfy our principal and interest obligations and to make distributions to our securityholders would be materially and adversely affected.13The actual rents we receive for the properties in our portfolio may be less than our asking rents, and we may experience a decline in realized rental rates from time to time, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. As a result of various factors, including competitive pricing pressure in our markets, a general economic downturn and the desirability of our properties compared to other properties in our markets, we may be unable to realize our asking rents across the properties in our portfolio. In addition, the degree of discrepancy between our asking rents and the actual rents we are able to obtain may vary both from property to property and among different leased spaces within a single property. If we are unable to obtain sufficient rental rates across our portfolio, then our ability to generate cash flow growth will be negatively impacted. In addition, depending on market rental rates at any given time as compared to expiring leases in our portfolio, from time to time rental rates for expiring leases may be higher than starting rental rates for new leases.We are exposed to risks associated with property redevelopment and development that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have engaged, and continue to engage, in development and redevelopment activities with respect to our Manhattan office properties. In addition, we own entitled land at the Stamford Transportation Center in Stamford, Connecticut that can support the development of an approximately 380,000 rentable square foot office building and garage. To the extent that we continue to engage in development and redevelopment activities, we will be subject to certain risks, including, without limitation: •the availability and pricing of financing on favorable terms or at all; •the availability and timely receipt of zoning and other regulatory approvals; •the potential for the fluctuation of occupancy rates and rents at properties due to a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, which may result in our investment not being profitable; •start up, repositioning and redevelopment costs may be higher than anticipated; •the cost and timely completion of construction (including risks beyond our control, such as weather or labor conditions, or material shortages); •the potential that we may fail to recover expenses already incurred if we abandon development or redevelopment opportunities after we begin to explore them; •the potential that we may expend funds on and devote management time to projects which we do not complete; •the inability to complete construction and leasing of a property on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction or redevelopment costs; and •the possibility that properties will be leased at below expected rental rates.These risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent the initiation of development and redevelopment activities or the completion of development and redevelopment activities once undertaken, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share/unit trading price of our Class A common stock and our traded OP units and ability to satisfy our principal and interest obligations and to make distributions to our securityholders. We may be required to make rent or other concessions and/or significant capital expenditures to improve our properties in order to retain and attract tenants, which could materially and adversely affect us, including our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.To the extent there are adverse economic conditions in the real estate market and demand for office space decreases, upon expiration of leases at our properties and with respect to our current vacant space, we will be required to increase rent or other concessions to tenants, accommodate increased requests for renovations, build-to-suit remodeling and other improvements or provide additional services to our tenants. In addition, eight of our existing properties are pre-war office properties, which may require more frequent and costly maintenance to retain existing tenants or attract new tenants than newer properties. As a result, we would have to make significant capital or other expenditures in order to retain tenants whose leases expire and to attract new tenants in sufficient numbers. Additionally, we may need to raise capital to make such expenditures. If we are unable to do so or capital is otherwise unavailable, we may be unable to make the required expenditures. This could result in non-renewals by tenants upon expiration of their leases and our vacant space remaining untenanted, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and per share/unit trading price of our Class A common stock and our traded OP units. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 1.0 million rentable square feet of vacant space (excluding leases signed but not yet commenced), and leases representing 10.0% and 7.2% of the square footage of the properties in our portfolio will expire in the in 2015 and 2016, respectively (including month to month leases).We depend on significant tenants in our office portfolio, including Global Brands Group, Coty, Inc., PVH Corp., Thomson Reuters and LinkedIn, which together represented approximately 15.9% of our total portfolio’s annualized rent as of December 31, 2014. 14As of December 31, 2014, our five largest tenants together represented 15.9% of our total portfolio’s annualized rent. Our largest tenant is Global Brands Group. As of December 31, 2014, Global Brands Group leased an aggregate of 0.7 million rentable square feet of office space at three of our office properties, representing approximately 7.0% of the total rentable square feet and approximately 6.8% of the annualized rent in our portfolio. Our rental revenue depends on entering into leases with and collecting rents from tenants. General and regional economic conditions, such as the current challenging economic climate described above, may adversely affect our major tenants and potential tenants in our markets. Our major tenants may experience a material business downturn, weakening their financial condition and potentially resulting in their failure to make timely rental payments and/or a default under their leases. In many cases, we have made substantial up front investments in the applicable leases, through tenant improvement allowances and other concessions, as well as typical transaction costs (including professional fees and commissions) that we may not be able to recover. In the event of any tenant default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant also may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. If any tenant becomes a debtor in a case under the United States Bankruptcy Code of 1978, as amended, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of the bankruptcy. In addition, the bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to reject and terminate their lease with us. The bankruptcy of a tenant or lease guarantor could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim we hold may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims, and there are restrictions under bankruptcy laws that limit the amount of the claim we can make if a lease is rejected. Our revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected if any of our significant tenants were to become bankrupt or insolvent, or suffer a downturn in their business, default under their leases or fail to renew their leases at all or renew on terms less favorable to us than their current terms. Competition may impede our ability to attract or retain tenants or re-let space, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. The leasing of real estate in the greater New York metropolitan area is highly competitive. The principal means of competition are rent charged, location, services provided and the nature and condition of the premises to be leased. We directly compete with all lessors and developers of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located as well as properties in other submarkets. Demand for retail space may be impacted by the recent bankruptcy of a number of retail companies and a general trend toward consolidation in the retail industry, which could adversely affect the ability of our company to attract and retain tenants. In addition, retailers at our properties face increasing competition from outlet malls, discount shopping clubs, electronic commerce, direct mail and telemarketing, which could (i) reduce rents payable to us, (ii) reduce our ability to attract and retain tenants at our properties and (iii) lead to increased vacancy rates at our properties, any of which could materially and adversely affect us. Our office properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of midtown Manhattan and densely populated metropolitan communities in Fairfield County and Westchester County. Manhattan is the largest office market in the United States. The number of competitive office properties in the markets in which our properties are located (which may be newer or better located than our properties) could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able to charge.If our tenants are unable to secure financing necessary to continue to operate their businesses and pay us rent, we could be materially and adversely affected. Many of our tenants rely on external sources of financing to operate their businesses. If our tenants are unable to secure financing necessary to continue to operate their businesses, they may be unable to meet their rent obligations or be forced to declare bankruptcy and reject their leases, which could materially and adversely affect us.Our dependence on smaller businesses to rent our office space could materially and adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. The majority of the tenants in our properties (measured by number of tenants as opposed to aggregate square footage) are smaller businesses that generally do not have the financial strength of larger corporate tenants. Smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than large businesses. There is a current risk with these companies of a higher rate of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could materially and adversely affect our distributable cash flow and results of operations.Our dependence on rental income may materially and adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations.A substantial portion of our income is derived from rental income from real property. As a result, our performance depends on our ability to collect rent from tenants. Our income and funds for distribution would be negatively affected if a significant number of our tenants, or any of our major tenants (as discussed in more detail below):15•delay lease commencements; •decline to extend or renew leases upon expiration; •fail to make rental payments when due; or •declare bankruptcy.Any of these actions could result in the termination of the tenants’ leases and the loss of rental income attributable to the terminated leases. In these events, we cannot be sure that any tenant whose lease expires will renew that lease or that we will be able to re-lease space on economically advantageous terms or at all. The loss of rental revenues from a number of our tenants and our inability to replace such tenants may adversely affect our profitability, our ability to meet debt and other financial obligations and our ability to make distributions to our securityholders. We may not be able to control our operating costs, or our expenses may remain constant or increase, even if income from our properties decreases, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. Our financial results depend substantially on leasing space in our properties to tenants on terms favorable to us. Costs associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced even when a property is not fully occupied, rental rates decrease or other circumstances cause a reduction in income from the property. As a result, cash flow from the operations of our properties may be reduced if a tenant does not pay its rent or we are unable to rent our properties on favorable terms. Under those circumstances, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. The terms of our leases may also limit our ability to charge our tenants for all or a portion of these expenses. Additionally, new properties that we may acquire or redevelop may not produce significant revenue immediately, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and principal and interest on debt associated with such properties until they are fully leased.Our breach of or the expiration of our ground leases could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our interest in three of our commercial office properties, 1350 Broadway, 112 West 34th Street and 1400 Broadway are long-term leaseholds of the land and the improvements, rather than a fee interest in the land and the improvements. If we are found to be in breach of these ground leases, we could lose the right to use the properties. In addition, unless we purchase the underlying fee interest in these properties or extend the terms of our leases for these properties before expiration on terms significantly comparable to our current leases, we will lose our right to operate these properties and our leasehold interests in these properties upon expiration of the leases or we will continue to operate them at much lower profitability, which would significantly adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if we are perceived to have breached the terms of these leases, the fee owner may initiate proceedings to terminate the leases. The long-term leases, including unilateral extension rights available to us expire on July 31, 2050 for 1350 Broadway, June 10, 2077 for 112 West 34th Street, and December 31, 2063 for 1400 Broadway. Pursuant to the ground leases, we, as tenant under the ground leases, perform the functions traditionally performed by owners, as landlords, with respect to our subtenants. In addition to collecting rent from our subtenants, we also maintain the properties and pay expenses relating to the properties. We do not have a right, pursuant to the terms of our leases or otherwise, to acquire the fee interests in these properties.We will not recognize any increase in the value of the land or improvements subject to our ground leases, and we may only receive a portion of compensation paid in any eminent domain proceeding with respect to these properties, which could materially and adversely affect us. We have no economic interest in the land or improvements at the expiration of our ground leases at 1350 Broadway, 112 West 34th Street and 1400 Broadway, and therefore we will not share in any increase in value of the land or improvements beyond the term of our ground leases, notwithstanding our capital outlay to purchase our interest in the properties. Furthermore, if the state or federal government seizes the properties subject to the ground leases under its eminent domain power, we may only be entitled to a portion of any compensation awarded for the seizure. In addition, if the value of the properties has increased, it may be more expensive for us to renew our ground leases.The broadcasting operations at the Empire State Building are not traditional real estate operations, and competition and changes in the broadcasting of signals over air may subject us to additional risks, which could materially and adversely affect us. The Empire State Building and its broadcasting mast provides radio and data communications services and supports delivery of broadcasting signals to cable and satellite systems and television and radio receivers. We license the use of the broadcasting mast to third party television and radio broadcasters. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we derived approximately $20.6 million, of revenue from the Empire State Building’s broadcasting licenses and related leased space, representing approximately 7.3% of the Empire State Building’s total revenue for this period. Competition from broadcasting operations at One World Trade Center and, to a lesser extent, from the existing broadcasting operations at Four Times Square, could have a negative impact on revenues from our broadcasting operations. Our broadcast television and radio licensees also 16face a range of competition from advances in technologies and alternative methods of content delivery in their respective industries, as well as from changes in consumer behavior driven by new technologies and methods of content delivery, which may reduce the demand for over-the-air broadcast licenses in the future. New government regulations affecting broadcasters, including the implementation of the Federal Communications Commission's (the "FCC") National Broadband Plan, (the "FCC Plan"), also might materially and adversely affect our results of operations by reducing the demand for broadcast licenses. Among other things, the FCC Plan urges Congress to make more spectrum available for wireless broadband service providers by encouraging over-the-air broadcast licensees to relinquish spectrum through a voluntary auction process, which raises many issues that could impact the broadcast industry. At this time we cannot predict whether Congress or the FCC will adopt or implement any of the FCC Plan’s recommendations or the rule changes as proposed, or how any such actions might affect our broadcasting operations. Any of these risks might materially and adversely affect us.We may be unable to identify and successfully complete acquisitions and even if acquisitions are identified and completed, we may fail to operate successfully acquired properties, which could materially and adversely affect us and impede our growth. Our current portfolio of consists entirely of properties that we acquired (or received the right to acquire) in connection with the formation transactions. Our ability to identify and acquire additional properties on favorable terms and successfully operate or redevelop them may be exposed to the following significant risks:•even if we enter into agreements for the acquisition of properties, these agreements are subject to customary conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to our satisfaction and other conditions that are not within our control, which may not be satisfied, and we may be unable to complete an acquisition after making a non-refundable deposit and incurring certain other acquisition-related costs; •we may be unable to finance the acquisition on favorable terms in the time period we desire, or at all; •we may spend more than budgeted to make necessary improvements or redevelopments to acquired properties; •we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for new properties; •acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; •we may be unable to integrate quickly and efficiently new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and as a result our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected; •market conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates; and •we may incur significant costs and divert management attention in connection with evaluating and negotiating potential acquisitions, including ones that we are subsequently unable to complete.Any delay or failure on our part to identify, negotiate, finance and consummate such acquisitions in a timely manner and on favorable terms, or operate acquired properties to meet our financial expectations, could impede our growth and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and per share/unit trading price of our Class A common stock and traded OP units. Competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions, which may impede our growth. We plan to acquire properties as we are presented with attractive opportunities. We may face significant competition for acquisition opportunities in the greater New York metropolitan area with other investors, particularly private investors who can incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: •an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held REITs, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, commercial developers, partnerships and individual investors; and •an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property, in the event we are able to acquire such desired property. The significant competition for acquisitions of commercial office and retail properties in the greater New York metropolitan area may impede our growth.Acquired properties may expose us to unknown liability, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and the market value of our securities. 17We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, against the prior owners or other third parties with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle or contest it, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and the market value of our securities. Unknown liabilities with respect to acquired properties might include: •liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination; •claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties; •liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and •claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.We may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions, which could result in securityholder dilution and limit our ability to sell such assets. In the future we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for partnership interests in our operating partnership, which may result in stockholder/unitholder dilution. This acquisition structure may have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we could deduct over the tax life of the acquired properties, and may require that we agree to protect the contributors’ ability to defer recognition of taxable gain through restrictions on our ability to dispose of the acquired properties and/or the allocation of partnership debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases. These restrictions could limit our ability to sell an asset at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions.Should we decide at some point in the future to expand into new markets, we may not be successful, which could adversely affect our financial condition, result of operations, cash flow and trading price of our Class A common stock and traded OP units. If opportunities arise, we may explore acquisitions of properties in new markets. Each of the risks applicable to our ability to acquire and integrate successfully and operate properties in our current markets is also applicable to our ability to acquire and integrate successfully and operate properties in new markets. In addition to these risks, we will not possess the same level of familiarity with the dynamics and market conditions of any new markets that we may enter, which could adversely affect the results of our expansion into those markets, and we may be unable to build a significant market share or achieve a desired return on our investments in new markets. If we are unsuccessful in expanding into new markets, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, trading price of our Class A common stock and traded OP units and ability to satisfy our principal and interest obligations and to make distributions to our securityholders.Our growth depends on external sources of capital that are outside of our control, which may affect our ability to seize strategic opportunities, satisfy debt obligations and make distributions to our securityholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our securityholders, on an annual basis, at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for distributions paid and excluding net capital gains. In addition, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income (including net capital gains) and will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal income tax laws. Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we may need to rely on third-party sources to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, in the time period we desire, or at all. Any additional debt we incur will increase our leverage. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on:•general market conditions; •the market’s perception of our growth potential; •our current debt levels; •our current and expected future earnings; •our cash flow and cash distributions; and •the market price per share/unit of our Class A common stock and traded OP units.If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire or redevelop properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our principal and interest obligations or make the cash distributions to our securityholders necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. 18If we are unable to sell, dispose of or refinance one or more properties in the future, we may be unable to realize our investment objectives, and our business may be adversely affected. The real estate investments made, and to be made, by us are relatively difficult to sell quickly. Return of capital and realization of gains from an investment generally will occur upon disposition or refinancing of the underlying property. In addition, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), imposes restrictions on the ability of a REIT to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies. We may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale, other disposition or refinancing at attractive prices within any given period of time or may otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from weakness in or even the lack of an established market for a property, changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective purchasers, changes in national or international economic conditions and changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of jurisdictions in which our properties are located.Our outstanding indebtedness reduces cash available for distribution and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations and may include covenants that restrict our financial and operational flexibility and our ability to make distributions. As of December 31, 2014, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $1.6 billion. We may incur significant additional debt to finance future acquisition and redevelopment activities. Payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our properties or to pay the distributions currently contemplated or necessary to qualify as a REIT. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our loan documents could have significant adverse consequences, including the following: •our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; •we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms; •we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; •to the extent we borrow debt that bears interest at variable rates, increases in interest rates could materially increase our interest expense; •we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; •we may default on our obligations or violate restrictive covenants, in which case the lenders or mortgagees may accelerate our debt obligations, foreclose on the properties that secure their loans and/or take control of our properties that secure their loans and collect rents and other property income; •we may violate restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations or reduce our ability to make, or prohibit us from making, distributions; and •our default under any one of our mortgage loans with cross default provisions could result in a default on other indebtedness. In addition, the terms of our secured revolving and term credit facility, our unsecured revolving credit facility (which we entered into on January 23, 2015 to replace our secured revolving and term credit facility) and other debt instruments that we may enter into in the future are subject to customary financial and operational covenants. For example, our secured revolving and term credit facility requires us to maintain designated ratios, including but not limited to, total debt-to-assets, secured debt-to-assets, adjusted EBITDA to consolidated fixed charges, variable rate debt-to-assets and secured recourse debt-to-assets, and contains a minimum tangible net worth requirement. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, our secured revolving and term credit facility restricts us from paying dividends or other distributions in excess of the greater of (x) 95% of funds from operations (as defined therein) and (y) the amount of dividends and other distributions we are required to pay in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT and (other than during an event of default) to avoid the payment of federal or state income or excise tax; provided, that if certain events of default exist, we may be precluded from paying any dividends or other distributions. Our secured revolving and term credit facility was terminated on January 23, 2015. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Secured Revolving and Term Credit Facility."Our unsecured revolving credit facility requires us to maintain designated ratios, including but not limited to, total debt-to-assets, secured debt-to-assets, adjusted EBITDA to consolidated fixed charges, net operating income from unencumbered properties to interest expense on unsecured debt, unsecured debt to unencumbered assets and secured recourse debt-to-assets, and contains a minimum tangible net worth requirement. Our unsecured revolving credit facility does not generally contain restrictions on the payment of dividends or other distributions. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, our secured revolving and term credit facility restricts us from paying dividends or other distributions in excess of the greater of (x) 95% of funds from operations (as defined therein) and (y) the amount of dividends and other distributions we are required to pay in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT and (other than during an event of default) to avoid the payment of federal 19or state income or excise tax; provided, that if certain events of default exist, we may be precluded from paying any dividends or other distributions. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility." The indenture governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes does not contain financial or operational covenants or restrictions on the payments of dividends; however, upon the occurrence of fundamental changes described in the indenture, holders of our outstanding senior unsecured notes may require our operating partnership to repurchase for cash all or part of their notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, subject to certain conditions. Further, upon the occurrence of any make-whole fundamental change described in the indenture, the exchange rate for holders who exchange their notes in connection with any such make-whole fundamental change may be increased. See "[Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Senior Unsecured Notes]." The provisions in the partnership agreement of our operating partnership that govern the preferred units may restrict our ability to pay dividends if we fail to pay the cumulative preferential cash distributions thereon. See "[Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Private Perpetual Preferred Units].”If any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share/unit trading price of our Class A common stock and traded OP units and our ability to satisfy our principal, interest and preferred unit distribution obligations and to make distributions to our securityholders could be adversely affected. In addition, in connection with our debt agreements we may enter into lockbox and cash management agreements pursuant to which substantially all of the income generated by our properties will be deposited directly into lockbox accounts and then swept into cash management accounts for the benefit of our various lenders and from which cash will be distributed to us only after funding of improvement, leasing and maintenance reserves and the payment of principal and interest on our debt, insurance, taxes, operating expenses and extraordinary capital expenditures and leasing expenses. As a result, we may be forced to borrow additional funds in order to make distributions to our securityholders (including, potentially, to make distributions necessary to allow us to qualify as a REIT). See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources."Mortgage debt obligations expose us to the possibility of foreclosure, which could result in the loss of our investment in a property or group of properties subject to mortgage debt. Incurring mortgage and other secured debt obligations increases our risk of property losses because defaults on indebtedness secured by properties may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and ultimately our loss of the property securing any loans for which we are in default. Any foreclosure on a mortgaged property or group of properties could adversely affect the overall value of our portfolio of properties. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties that is subject to a nonrecourse mortgage loan would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds, which could hinder our ability to meet the distribution requirements applicable to REITs under the Code. Foreclosures could also trigger our tax indemnification obligations under the terms of our agreements with certain continuing investors with respect to sales of certain properties, and obligate us to make certain levels of indebtedness available for them to guarantee which.High mortgage rates and/or unavailability of mortgage debt may make it difficult for us to finance or refinance properties, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire, our net income and the amount of cash distributions we can make. If mortgage debt is unavailable at reasonable rates, we may not be able to finance the purchase of properties. If we place mortgage debt on properties, we may be unable to refinance the properties when the loans become due, or to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when we refinance our properties, our income could be reduced. If any of these events occur, our cash flow could be reduced. This, in turn, could reduce cash available for distribution to our securityholders and may hinder our ability to raise more capital by issuing more stock or by borrowing more money. In addition, to the extent we are unable to refinance the properties when the loans become due, we will have fewer debt guarantee opportunities available to offer under our tax protection agreement. If we are unable to offer certain guarantee opportunities to the protected parties under the tax protection agreement, or otherwise are unable to allocate sufficient liabilities of our operating partnership to those parties, it could trigger an indemnification obligation of our company under the tax protection agreement.Some of our financing arrangements involve balloon payment obligations, which may adversely affect our ability to make distributions. 20As of December 31, 2014, we had total debt outstanding of approximately $1.6 billion. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $44.1 million of debt maturing in 2015 and no maturities in 2016. As of December 31, 2014, we had 15 mortgage loans outstanding secured by 13 of our properties. As of December 31, 2014, these loans had an aggregate estimated principal balance at maturity of approximately $882.1 million with maturity dates ranging from 2015 through April 2024. See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for required payments of our indebtedness. Our financing arrangements require us to make a lump-sum or "balloon" payment at maturity. Our ability to make a balloon payment at maturity is uncertain and may depend upon our ability to obtain additional financing or our ability to sell the property. At the time the balloon payment is due, we may or may not be able to refinance the existing financing on terms as favorable as the original loan or sell the property at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment. The effect of a refinancing or sale could affect the rate of return to securityholders and the projected time of disposition of our assets. In addition, payments of principal and interest made to service our debts may leave us with insufficient cash to make distributions necessary to meet the distribution requirements applicable to REITs under the Code.Our degree of leverage and the lack of a limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur could materially and adversely affect us.Our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. We consider factors other than debt-to-EBITDA in making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. Our degree of leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes. Our degree of leverage could also make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. If we become more leveraged in the future, the resulting increase in debt service requirements could cause us to default on our obligations, which could materially and adversely affect us.Our tax protection agreement could limit our ability either to sell certain properties or to engage in a strategic transaction, or to reduce our level of indebtedness, which could materially and adversely affect us. In connection with the formation transactions, we entered into a tax protection agreement with Anthony E. Malkin and Peter L. Malkin pursuant to which we have agreed to indemnify the Malkin Group and one additional third party investor in Metro Center (who was one of the original landowners and was involved in the development of the property) against certain tax liabilities if those tax liabilities result from (i) the operating partnership’s sale, transfer, conveyance, or other taxable disposition of four specified properties (First Stamford Place, Metro Center, 10 Bank Street and 1542 Third Avenue acquired by the operating partnership in the consolidation for a period of 12 years from the consolidation in 2013 with respect to First Stamford Place and for the later of (x) eight years from the consolidation in 2013 or (y) the death of both Peter L. Malkin and Isabel W. Malkin who are 81 and 78 years old, respectively, for the three other properties, (ii) the operating partnership failing to maintain until maturity the indebtedness secured by those properties or failing to use commercially reasonable efforts to refinance such indebtedness upon maturity in an amount equal to the principal balance of such indebtedness, or, if the operating partnership is unable to refinance such indebtedness at its current principal amount, at the highest principal amount possible, or (iii) the operating partnership failing to make available to any of these continuing investors the opportunity to guarantee, or otherwise bear the risk of loss, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, of their allocable share of $160 million of aggregate indebtedness meeting certain requirements, until such continuing investor owns less than the aggregate number of operating partnership units and shares of common stock equal to 50% of the aggregate number of such units and shares such continuing investor received in the formation transactions. If we were to trigger our tax indemnification obligations under these agreements, we would be required to pay damages for the resulting tax consequences to the Malkin Group, and we have acknowledged that a calculation of damages will not be based on the time value of money or the time remaining within the restricted period. Moreover, these obligations may restrict our ability to engage in a strategic transaction. In addition, these obligations may require us to maintain more or different indebtedness than we would otherwise require for our business.The continuing threat of a terrorist event may materially and adversely affect our properties, their value and our ability to generate cash flow. There may be a decrease in demand for space in Manhattan and the greater New York metropolitan area because it is considered at risk for a future terrorist event, and this decrease may reduce our revenues from property rentals. In the aftermath of a terrorist event, tenants in Manhattan and the greater New York metropolitan area may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the United States that are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. This in turn could trigger a decrease in the demand for space in Manhattan and the greater New York metropolitan area, which could 21increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. Further, certain of our properties, including the Empire State Building, may be considered to be susceptible to increased risks of a future terrorist event due to the high-profile nature of the property. In addition, a terrorist event could cause insurance premiums at certain of our properties to increase significantly. As a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues could materially decline.Potential losses, such as those from adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, terrorist events and title claims, may not be fully covered by our insurance policies, and such losses could materially and adversely affect us. Our business operations are susceptible to, and could be significantly affected by, adverse weather conditions, terrorist events and natural disasters that could cause significant damage to the properties in our portfolio. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover business interruption or losses resulting from such events. In addition, our insurance policies include substantial self-insurance portions and significant deductibles and co-payments for such events, and recent hurricanes in the United States have affected the availability and price of such insurance. As a result, we may incur significant costs in the event of adverse weather conditions, terrorist events and natural disasters. We may discontinue certain insurance coverage on some or all of our properties in the future if the cost of premiums for any of these policies in our judgment exceeds the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, earthquake, terrorism and rental loss insurance covering allof our Manhattan properties and our greater New York metropolitan area properties under a blanket policy. We carry additionalall-risk property and business insurance, which includes terrorism insurance, on the Empire State Building through ESRTCaptive Insurance Company L.L.C., or ESRT Captive Insurance, our wholly owned captive insurance company. ESRT CaptiveInsurance covers terrorism insurance for $700 million in losses in excess of $800 million per occurrence suffered by the EmpireState Building, providing us with aggregate terrorism coverage of $1.5 billion at that property. ESRT Captive Insurance fullyreinsures the 15% coinsurance under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015 (TRIPRA) and thedifference between the TRIPRA captive deductible and policy deductible of $25,000 for non-Nuclear, Biological, Chemical andRadiological exposures. As a result, we remain only liable for the 15% coinsurance under TRIPRA for Nuclear, Biological,Chemical and Radiological (NBCR) exposures, as well as a deductible equal to 20% of the prior year’s premium. As long as we own ESRT Captive Insurance, we are responsible for ESRT Captive Insurance’s liquidity and capital resources, and ESRT Captive Insurance’s accounts are part of our consolidated financial statements. If we experience a loss and our captive insurance company is required to pay under its insurance policy, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of its required payment.The policies described above cover certified terrorism losses as defined under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (TRIA) and subsequent extensions. On January 12, 2015, the President of the United States signed into law TRIPRA, which extends TRIA through December 31, 2020. TRIA provides for a system of shared public and private compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism. As a result, the certified terrorism coverage provided by ESRT Captive Insurance is eligible for 85% coinsurance provided by the United States Treasury in excess of a statutorily calculateddeductible. ESRT Captive Insurance reinsures 100% of their 15% coinsurance for non-NBCR exposures. The 15% coinsurance on NBCR exposures is retained by ESRT Captive Insurance. TRIA was not in effect for the period from January 1, 2015 through January 11, 2015. During this brief period of time, ESRT carried a reduced terrorism insurance limit, which we believed was commercially acceptable under the circumstances. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve ESRT Captive Insurance from its primary obligations to its policyholders.Additionally, failure of the various reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in significant losses to ESRT CaptiveInsurance. The reinsurance has been ceded to reinsurers approved by the State of Vermont. ESRT Captive Insurancecontinually evaluates the reinsurers’ financial condition by considering published financial stability ratings of the reinsurers andother factors. There can be no assurance that reinsurance will continue to be available to ESRT Captive Insurance to the sameextent and at the same cost. ESRT Captive Insurance may choose in the future to reevaluate the use of reinsurance to increaseor decrease the amounts of risk it cedes.In addition to insurance held through our captive insurance company described above, we carry terrorism insurance on all of our properties in an amount and with deductibles which we believe are commercially reasonable.Furthermore, we do not carry insurance for certain losses, including, but not limited to, losses caused by war. In addition, while our title insurance policies insure for the current aggregate market value of our portfolio, we do not intend to increase our title insurance policies as the market value of our portfolio increases. As a result, we may not have sufficient coverage against all losses that we may experience, including from adverse title claims. 22If we experience a loss that is uninsured or which exceeds our policy limits, we could incur significant costs and lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. In addition, certain of our properties could not be rebuilt to their existing height or size at their existing location under current land-use laws and policies. In the event that we experience a substantial or comprehensive loss of one of our properties, we may not be able to rebuild such property to its existing specifications and otherwise may have to upgrade such property to meet current code requirements. Our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties (which are generally non-recourse to us), ground leases, our secured term loan and our unsecured revolving credit facility, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance, including terrorism insurance. While we do not believe it will be likely, there can be no assurance that the lenders or ground lessors under these instruments will not take the position that a total or partial exclusion from “all-risk” insurance coverage for losses due to terrorist acts is a breach of these debt and ground lease instruments that allows the lenders or ground lessors to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of debt or recapture of ground lease positions for those properties in our portfolio which are not insured against terrorist events. In addition, if lenders insist on full coverage for these risks and prevail in asserting that we are required to maintain such coverage, it could result in substantially higher insurance premiums. Certain mortgages on our properties contain requirements concerning the financial ratings of the insurers who provide policies covering the property. We provide the lenders on a regular basis with the identity of the insurance companies in our insurance programs. While the ratings of our insurers currently satisfy the rating requirements in some of our loan agreements, in the future, we may be unable to obtain insurance with insurers which satisfy the rating requirements which could give rise to an event of default under such loan agreements. Additionally, in the future our ability to obtain debt financing secured by individual properties, or the terms of such financing, may be adversely affected if lenders generally insist on ratings for insurers which are difficult to obtain or which result in a commercially unreasonable premium.We may become subject to liability relating to environmental and health and safety matters, which could have a material and adverse effect on us. Under various federal, state and/or local laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or former owner or operator of real property, we may be liable for costs and damages resulting from the presence or release of hazardous substances, waste, or petroleum products at, on, in, under or from such property, including costs for investigation or remediation, natural resource damages, or third party liability for personal injury or property damage. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or release of such materials, and the liability may be joint and several. Some of our properties have been or may be impacted by contamination arising from current or prior uses of the property or adjacent properties for commercial, industrial or other purposes. Such contamination may arise from spills of petroleum or hazardous substances or releases from tanks used to store such materials. We also may be liable for the costs of remediating contamination at off-site disposal or treatment facilities when we arrange for disposal or treatment of hazardous substances at such facilities, without regard to whether we comply with environmental laws in doing so. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination on our properties may adversely affect our ability to attract and/or retain tenants and our ability to develop or sell or borrow against those properties. In addition to potential liability for cleanup costs, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury, property damage or for similar reasons. Environmental laws also may create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs to address such contamination. Moreover, if contamination is discovered on our properties, environmental laws may impose restrictions on the manner in which that property may be used or how businesses may be operated on that property. For example, our property at 69-97 Main Street is subject to an Environmental Land Use Restriction that imposes certain restrictions on the use, occupancy and activities of the affected land beneath the property. This restriction may prevent us from conducting certain redevelopment activities at the property, which may adversely affect its resale value and may adversely affect our ability to finance or refinance this property. See “Item 1. Business - Environmental Matters.” Some of our properties are adjacent to or near other properties used for industrial or commercial purposes or that have contained or currently contain underground storage tanks used to store petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. Releases from these properties could impact our properties. In addition, some of our properties have previously been used by former owners or tenants for commercial or industrial activities, e.g., gas stations and dry cleaners, and a portion of the Metro Tower site is currently used for automobile parking and fueling, that may release petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances at such properties or to surrounding properties. 23In addition, our properties are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Noncompliance with these environmental and health and safety laws and regulations could subject us or our tenants to liability. These liabilities could affect a tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us. Moreover, changes in laws could increase the potential costs of compliance with such laws and regulations or increase liability for noncompliance. This may result in significant unanticipated expenditures or may otherwise materially and adversely affect our operations, or those of our tenants, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on us. As the owner or operator of real property, we may also incur liability based on various building conditions. For example, buildings and other structures on properties that we currently own or operate or those we acquire or operate in the future contain, may contain, or may have contained, asbestos-containing material, or ACM. Environmental and health and safety laws require that ACM be properly managed and maintained and may impose fines or penalties on owners, operators or employers for non-compliance with those requirements. These requirements include special precautions, such as removal, abatement or air monitoring, if ACM would be disturbed during maintenance, redevelopment or demolition of a building, potentially resulting in substantial costs. In addition, we may be subject to liability for personal injury or property damage sustained as a result of releases of ACM into the environment. In addition, our properties may contain or develop harmful mold or suffer from other indoor air quality issues, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects or property damage or costs for remediation. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources, and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels can be alleged to cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants or others if property damage or personal injury occurs. We cannot assure you that costs or liabilities incurred as a result of environmental issues will not affect our ability to make distributions to our securityholders or that such costs, liabilities, or other remedial measures will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Potential environmental liabilities may exceed our environmental insurance coverage limits, which could have a material and adverse effect on us. We carry environmental insurance to cover certain potential environmental liabilities associated with pollution conditions at certain of our properties. We cannot assure you, however, that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or that our liability will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our Class A common stock and our ability to satisfy our principal and interest obligations and to make distributions to our securityholders.We may experience a decline in the fair value of our assets, which may have a material impact on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and adversely impact our stock price. A decline in the fair market value of our assets may require us to recognize an other-than-temporary impairment against such assets under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") if we were to determine that, with respect to any assets in unrealized loss positions, we do not have the ability and intent to hold such assets to maturity or for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery to the amortized cost of such assets. If such a determination were to be made, we would recognize unrealized losses through earnings and write down the amortized cost of such assets to a new cost basis, based on the fair value of such assets on the date they are considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Such impairment charges reflect non-cash losses at the time of recognition; subsequent disposition or sale of such assets could further affect our future losses or gains, as they are based on the difference between the sale price received and adjusted amortized cost of such assets at the time of sale.Failure to hedge interest rates effectively could have a material and adverse effect on us. 24We may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements that involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, and that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our hedging arrangements will qualify for hedge accounting or that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations. Should we desire to terminate a hedging agreement, there could be significant costs and cash requirements involved to fulfill our initial obligation under the hedging agreement. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. When a hedging agreement is required under the terms of a mortgage loan it is often a condition that the hedge counterparty maintains a specified credit rating. With the current volatility in the financial markets, there is an increased risk that hedge counterparties could have their credit rating downgraded to a level that would not be acceptable under the loan provisions. If we were unable to renegotiate the credit rating condition with the lender or find an alternative counterparty with acceptable credit rating, we could be in default under the loan and the lender could seize that property through foreclosure.As a general contractor, ESRT Construction LLC and ESRT Construction TRS, LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiaries, are subject to the various risks associated with construction that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As a general contractor, ESRT Construction LLC and ESRT Construction TRS, LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiaries, are subject to the various risks associated with construction (including, without limitation, shortages of labor and materials, work stoppages, labor disputes and weather interference) that could cause construction delays. We are subject to the risk that we will be unable to complete construction at budgeted costs or be unable to fund any excess construction costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We may incur significant costs complying with the ADA and similar laws, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and per share/unit trading price of our Class A common stock and traded OP units. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. We have not conducted a recent audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance with the ADA. If one or more of the properties in our portfolio is not in compliance with the ADA, we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. Additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share/unit trading price of our Class A common stock and traded OP units and our ability to satisfy our principal and interest obligations and to make distributions to our securityholders could be adversely affected.Our property taxes could increase due to property tax rate changes or reassessment, which could impact our cash flows. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay state and local taxes on our properties. The real property taxes on our properties may increase as property tax rates change or as our properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Therefore, the amount of property taxes we pay in the future may increase substantially from what we have paid in the past. If the property taxes we pay increase, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, per share trading price of our Class A common stock and our ability to satisfy our principal and interest obligations and to make distributions to our securityholders could be adversely affected.We may become subject to litigation, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and per share/unit trading price of our Class A common stock and our traded OP units. In the future we may become subject to litigation, including claims relating to our operations, offerings, and otherwise in the ordinary course of business. Some of these claims may result in significant defense costs and potentially significant judgments against us, some of which are not, or cannot be, insured against. We generally intend to defend ourselves vigorously; however, we cannot be certain of the ultimate outcomes of any claims that may arise in the future. Resolution of these types of matters against us may result in our having to pay significant fines, judgments, or settlements, which, if uninsured, or if the fines, judgments, and settlements exceed insured levels, could adversely impact our earnings and cash flows, thereby having an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and per share/unit trading 25price of our Class A common stock and our traded OP units. Certain litigation or the resolution of certain litigation may affect the availability or cost of some of our insurance coverage, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows, expose us to increased risks that would be uninsured, and/or adversely impact our ability to attract officers and directors. There is currently litigation pending, and the potential for additional litigation, associated with the consolidation. We may incur costs from these litigations. Please see Footnote 10 “Commitments and Contingencies” to the financial statements on page F-32 of this Annual Report in Form 10-K for a description of such legal proceedings.Joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on co-venturers’ financial condition and disputes between us and our co-venturers. We may co-invest in the future with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. In such event, we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners or co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives, and they may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. In addition, prior consent of our joint venture partners may be required for a sale or transfer to a third party of our interests in the joint venture, which would restrict our ability to dispose of our interest in the joint venture. If we become a limited partner or non-managing member in any partnership or limited liability company and such entity takes or expects to take actions that could jeopardize our status as a REIT or require us to pay tax, we may be forced to dispose of our interest in such entity including at an unfavorable price. Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers. Our joint ventures may be subject to debt and, in any weakened credit market, the refinancing of such debt may require equity capital calls.We may incur significant costs complying with various regulatory requirements, which could materially and adversely affect us. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. In addition, existing requirements could change and future requirements might require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures, which materially and adversely affect us.We face risks relating to cybersecurity attacks that could cause loss of confidential information and other business disruptions.We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business, and our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks. These could include attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and computer systems. Attacks can be both individual and/or highly organized attempts organized by very sophisticated hacking organizations. We employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, which include password protection, frequent password change events, firewall detection systems, frequent backups, a redundant data system for core applications and annual penetration testing; however, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cybersecurity attack. A cybersecurity attack could compromise the confidential information of our employees, tenants and vendors. A successful attack could disrupt and affect the business operations.Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Holders of our Class B common stock have a significant vote in matters submitted to a vote of our securityholders. As part of our formation, original investors were offered the opportunity to contribute their interests to us in exchange for Class A common stock, operating partnership units, a combination of one share of Class B common stock for each 50 26operating partnership units to which an investor was entitled, resulting in one share of Class B common stock and 49 operating partnership units, or a combination of any of the above. Each outstanding share of Class B common stock entitles the holder thereof to 50 votes on all matters on which Class A common securityholders are entitled to vote, including the election of directors. Holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to share equally, on a per share basis, in all distributions payable with respect to shares of our Class A common stock. Holders of our Class B common stock may have interests that differ from those holders of our Class A common stock, including by reason of their interest in our operating partnership, and may accordingly vote as a stockholder in ways that may not be consistent with the interests of holders of our Class A common stock. This significant voting influence over certain matters may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, or could deprive holders of our Class A common stock of an opportunity to receive a premium for their Class A common stock as part of a sale of our company. Class B common stock has been issued only in connection with the formation transactions as described above, and any such share is automatically converted to a share of Class A common stock (having a single vote) upon its holder conveying the related 49 operating partnership units to any person other than a family member, affiliate or controlled entity of such person.We assumed unknown liabilities in connection with the formation transactions, which, if significant, could materially and adversely affect our business. As part of the formation transactions, we (through our operating partnership) acquired the properties and assets of our predecessor and certain other assets, subject to existing liabilities including unknown liabilities. Unknown liabilities might include liabilities for cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions, claims of tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with such entities prior to the Offering (that had not been asserted or threatened prior to the Offering), tax liabilities, and accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify our senior management team and certain members, managers, shareholders, directors, limited partners, general partners, officers or controlling persons of our predecessor in their capacities as such for certain claims. Any unknown or unquantifiable liabilities that we assumed in connection with the formation transactions for which we have no or limited recourse could materially and adversely affect us. See “-We may become subject to liability relating to environmental and health and safety matters, which could have a material and adverse effect on us” as to the possibility of undisclosed environmental conditions potentially affecting the value of the properties in our portfolio.The departure of any of our key personnel could materially and adversely affect us. Our success depends on the efforts of key personnel, particularly Anthony E. Malkin, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Among the reasons Anthony E. Malkin is important to our success is that he has a national industry reputation that benefits us in many ways. He has led the acquisition, operating and repositioning of our assets for the last two decades. If we lost his services, our external relationships and internal leadership resources would be materially diminished. Other members of our senior management team also have strong industry reputations and experience, which aid us in attracting, identifying and exploiting opportunities. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team, particularly Anthony E. Malkin, could have a material and adverse impact on us.Tax consequences to holders of operating partnership units upon a sale or refinancing of our properties may cause the interests of certain members of our senior management team to differ from your own. As a result of the unrealized built-in gain attributable to a property at the time of contribution, some holders of operating partnership units, including Anthony E. Malkin and Peter L. Malkin, may suffer different and more adverse tax consequences than holders of our Class A common stock upon the sale or refinancing of the properties owned by our operating partnership, including disproportionately greater allocations of items of taxable income and gain upon a realization event. As those holders will not receive a correspondingly greater distribution of cash proceeds, they may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing, timing and other material terms of any sale or refinancing of certain properties, or whether to sell or refinance such properties at all. As a result, the effect of certain transactions on Anthony E. Malkin and Peter L. Malkin may influence their decisions affecting these properties and may cause such members of our senior management team to attempt to delay, defer or prevent a transaction that might otherwise be in the best interests of our other securityholders. In connection with the formation transactions, we entered into a tax protection agreement with Anthony E. Malkin and Peter L. Malkin pursuant to which we have agreed to indemnify the Malkin Group and one additional third party investor in Metro Center (who was one of the original landowners and was involved in the development of the property) against certain tax liabilities if those tax liabilities result from (i) the operating partnership’s sale, transfer, conveyance, or other taxable disposition of four specified properties (First Stamford Place, Metro Center, 10 Bank Street and 1542 Third Avenue) acquired by the operating partnership in the consolidation for a period of 12 years from the consolidation in 2013 with respect to First Stamford 27Place and for the later of (x) eight years from the consolidation in 2013 or (y) the death of both Peter L. Malkin and Isabel W. Malkin who are 81 and 78 years old, respectively, for the three other properties, (ii) the operating partnership failing to maintain until maturity the indebtedness secured by those properties or failing to use commercially reasonable efforts to refinance such indebtedness upon maturity in an amount equal to the principal balance of such indebtedness, or, if the operating partnership is unable to refinance such indebtedness at its current principal amount, at the highest principal amount possible, or (iii) the operating partnership failing to make available to any of these continuing investors the opportunity to guarantee, or otherwise bear the risk of loss, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, of their allocable share of $160 million of aggregate indebtedness meeting certain requirements, until such continuing investor owns less than the aggregate number of operating partnership units and shares of common stock equal to 50% of the aggregate number of such units and shares such continuing investor received in the formation transactions. As a result of entering into the tax protection agreement, Anthony E. Malkin and Peter L. Malkin may have an incentive to cause us to enter into transactions from which they may personally benefit.Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has outside business interests that take his time and attention away from us, which could materially and adversely affect us. Anthony E. Malkin, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has agreed to devote a majority of his business time and attention to our business and, under his employment agreement, he may also devote time to the excluded properties, the excluded businesses and certain family investments to the extent that such activities do not materially interfere with the performance of his duties to us. He owns interests in the excluded properties and excluded businesses that were not contributed to us in the formation transactions, some of which are managed by our company and certain non-real estate family investments. In some cases, Anthony E. Malkin or his affiliates have certain management and fiduciary obligations that may conflict with such person’s responsibilities as an officer or director of our company and may adversely affect our operations. In addition, under his employment agreement, Anthony E. Malkin has agreed not to engage in certain business activities in competition with us (both during, and for a period of time following, his employment with us). We may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under this agreement because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer given his significant knowledge of our business, relationships with our customers and significant equity ownership in us, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our rights and the rights of our securityholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Our charter limits the liability of our present and former directors and officers to us and our securityholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our present and former directors and officers will not have any liability to us or our securityholders for money damages other than liability resulting from (1) actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services or (2) active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was established by a final judgment and is material to the cause of action. As a result, we and our securityholders may have limited rights against our present and former directors and officers, as well as persons who served as members, managers, shareholders, directors, partners, officers, controlling persons certain agents of our predecessor, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Conflicts of interest exist or could arise in the future between the interests of our securityholders and the interests of holders of operating partnership units, which may impede business decisions that could benefit our securityholders. Conflicts of interest exist or could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and our operating partnership or any partner thereof, on the other. Our directors and officers have duties to our company under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of our company. At the same time, we, as the general partner in our operating partnership, have fiduciary duties and obligations to our operating partnership and its limited partners under Delaware law and the partnership agreement of our operating partnership in connection with the management of our operating partnership. Our fiduciary duties and obligations as general partner to our operating partnership and its partners may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and officers to our company. Additionally, the partnership agreement provides that we and our directors and officers will not be liable or accountable to our operating partnership for losses sustained, liabilities incurred or benefits not derived if we, or such director or officer acted in good faith. The partnership agreement also provides that we will not be liable to the operating partnership or any partner for monetary damages for losses sustained, liabilities incurred or benefits not derived by the operating partnership or any limited partner, except for liability for our intentional harm or gross negligence. Moreover, the partnership agreement provides that our operating partnership is required to indemnify its directors and officers, us and our directors and officers and authorizes our operating partnership to indemnify present and former members, managers, shareholders, directors, limited 28partners, general partners, officers or controlling persons of our predecessor and authorizes us to indemnify members, partners, employees and agents of us or our predecessor, in each case for actions taken by them in those capacities from and against any and all claims that relate to the operations of our operating partnership, except (1) if the act or omission of the person was material to the matter giving rise to the action and either was committed in bad faith or was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, (2) for any transaction for which the indemnified party received an improper personal benefit, in money, property or services or otherwise, in violation or breach of any provision of the partnership agreement or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, if the indemnified person had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful. No reported decision of a Delaware appellate court has interpreted provisions similar to the provisions of the partnership agreement of our operating partnership that modify and reduce our fiduciary duties or obligations as the general partner or reduce or eliminate our liability for money damages to the operating partnership and its partners, and we have not obtained an opinion of counsel as to the enforceability of the provisions set forth in the partnership agreement that purport to modify or reduce the fiduciary duties that would be in effect were it not for the partnership agreement.We could increase or decrease the number of authorized shares of stock, classify and reclassify unissued stock and issue stock without stockholder approval, which could prevent a change in our control and negatively affect the market value of our shares. Our board of directors, without stockholder approval, has the power under our charter to amend our charter from time to time to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we are authorized to issue, to authorize us to issue authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock into one or more classes or series of stock and set the terms of such newly classified or reclassified shares. As a result, we may issue series or classes of common stock or preferred stock with preferences, distributions, powers and rights, voting or otherwise, that are senior to, or otherwise conflict with, the rights of holders of our common stock. Any such issuance could dilute our existing securityholders’ interests. Although our board of directors has no such intention at the present time, it could establish a class or series of preferred stock that could, depending on the terms of such series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or that our securityholders otherwise believe to be in their best interest.Our operating partnership may issue additional operating partnership units without the consent of our securityholders, which could have a dilutive effect on our securityholders. Our operating partnership may issue additional operating partnership units to third parties without the consent of our securityholders, which would reduce our ownership percentage in our operating partnership and would have a dilutive effect on the amount of distributions made to us by our operating partnership and, therefore, the amount of distributions we can make to our securityholders. Any such issuances, or the perception of such issuances, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock.We have limited operating history as a REIT and as a publicly-traded company, and our inexperience could materially and adversely affect us. We have limited operating history as a REIT and as a publicly-traded company. Our board of directors and senior management team have overall responsibility for our management and, while certain members of our senior management team and directors have extensive experience in real estate marketing, development, management, finance and law, none of our directors or members of our senior management team have prior experience in operating a business in accordance with the requirements under the Code applicable to REITs or in operating a public company other than our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer and certain of our directors. As a publicly-traded REIT, we are required to develop and implement substantial control systems, policies and procedures in order to maintain our REIT qualification and satisfy our periodic U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") reporting and New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, listing requirements. We cannot assure you that management’s past experience will be sufficient to successfully develop and implement these systems, policies and procedures and to operate our company. Failure to do so could jeopardize our status as a REIT or as a public company, and the loss of such status would materially and adversely affect us.Certain provisions in the partnership agreement of our operating partnership may delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions of us. Provisions in the partnership agreement of our operating partnership may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes of our control. These provisions could discourage third parties from making proposals involving 29an unsolicited acquisition of us or change of our control, although some securityholders might consider such proposals, if made, desirable. These provisions include, among others: •redemption rights of qualifying parties; •transfer restrictions on operating partnership units; •our ability, as general partner, in some cases, to amend the partnership agreement and to cause the operating partnership to issue units with terms that could delay, defer or prevent a merger or other change of control of us or our operating partnership without the consent of the limited partners; •the right of the limited partners to consent to transfers of the general partnership interest and mergers or other transactions involving us under specified circumstances; and•a redemption premium payable to the holders of our operating partnership’s preferred units if our operating partnership decides, at its option, to redeem preferred units for cash upon the occurrence of certain fundamental transactions, such as a change of control.Our charter, bylaws, the partnership agreement of our operating partnership and Maryland law also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or that our securityholders otherwise believe to be in their best interest.Our charter contains stock ownership limits, which may delay or prevent a change of control. In order for us to qualify as a REIT no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year, and at least 100 persons must beneficially own our stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate portion of a shorter taxable year. “Individuals” for this purpose include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts and some charitable trusts. To assist us in complying with these limitations, among other purposes, our charter generally prohibits any person from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our capital stock or more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. These ownership limitations could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. We have entered into waivers of the 9.8% ownership limit with two institutional investors to permit each of these institutional investors to own up to 15% of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock.Our charter’s constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause the outstanding shares owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than these percentages of the outstanding shares by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of these percentages of the outstanding shares and thus violate the share ownership limits. Our charter also provides that any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common stock or preferred stock (if and when issued) in excess of the stock ownership limits without the consent of our board of directors or in a manner that would cause us to be “closely held” under Section 856(h) of the Code (without regard to whether the shares are held during the last half of a taxable year) will result in the shares being deemed to be transferred to a trustee for a charitable trust or, if the transfer to the charitable trust is not automatically effective to prevent a violation of the share ownership limits or the restrictions on ownership and transfer of our shares, any such transfer of our shares will be null and void.The concentration of our voting power may adversely affect the ability of new investors to influence our policies. As of December 31, 2014, Anthony E. Malkin, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, together with the Malkin Group, has the right to vote 42,100,425 shares of our common stock, which represents approximately 26.5% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, Mr. Malkin has the ability to influence the outcome of matters presented to our securityholders, including the election of our board of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, including business combinations, consolidations and mergers and the determination of our day-to-day corporate and management policies. Therefore, Mr. Malkin has substantial influence over us and could exercise influence in a manner that is not in the best interests of our other securityholders. This concentration of voting power might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control that our securityholders may view as beneficial. Our board of directors may change our strategies, policies or procedures without stockholder consent, which may subject us to different and more significant risks in the future. 30Our investment, financing, leverage and distribution policies and our policies with respect to all other activities, including growth, debt, capitalization and operations, will be determined by our board of directors. These policies may be amended or revised at any time and from time to time at the discretion of the board of directors without notice to or a vote of our securityholders. This could result in our conducting operational matters, making investments or pursuing different business or growth strategies. Under these circumstances, we may expose ourselves to different and more significant risks in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and growth. In addition, the board of directors may change our policies with respect to conflicts of interest provided that such changes are consistent with applicable legal requirements. A change in these policies could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share/unit trading price of our Class A common stock and traded OP units and ability to satisfy our principal and interest obligations and to make distributions to our securityholders.Our board of directors has approved very broad investment guidelines for our company and will not review or approve each investment decision made by our senior management team. Our senior management team is authorized to follow broad investment guidelines and, therefore, has great latitude in determining the types of assets that are proper investments for us, as well as the individual investment decisions. Our senior management team may make investments with lower rates of return than those anticipated under current market conditions and/or may make investments with greater risks to achieve those anticipated returns. Our board of directors will not review or approve each proposed investment by our senior management team.Risks Related to our Common Stock and Traded OP UnitsOur cash available for distribution may not be sufficient to make distributions at expected levels. We intend to make distributions to holders of shares of our common stock and holders of operating partnership units. All dividends and distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, financial condition, maintenance of REIT qualification and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. If sufficient cash is not available for distribution from our operations, we may have to fund distributions from working capital or to borrow to provide funds for such distribution, or to reduce the amount of such distribution. We cannot assure you that our distributions will be made or sustained. Any distributions we pay in the future will depend upon our actual results of operations, economic conditions and other factors that could differ materially from our current expectations.The market price of shares of our Class A common stock and traded OP units could be adversely affected by our level of cash distributions. The market value of the equity securities of a REIT is based primarily upon the market’s perception of the REIT’s growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales or refinancings, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. For that reason, our Class A common stock and traded OP units may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share. To the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our Class A common stock and traded OP units. Our failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions likely would adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock and traded OP units. Increases in market interest rates may result in a decrease in the value of our Class A common stock and traded OP units. One of the factors that will influence the price of our Class A common stock and traded OP units will be the dividend yield on the Class A common stock and traded OP units (as a percentage of the price of our Class A common stock and traded OP units) relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, may lead prospective purchasers of shares of our Class A common stock and traded OP units to expect a higher dividend yield and higher interest rates would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our Class A common stock and traded OP units to go down.The number of shares and operating partnership units available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock and traded OP units. 31We cannot predict whether future issuances of shares of our Class A common stock or operating partnership units or the availability of shares for resale in the open market will decrease the market price per share/unit of our Class A common stock and traded OP units. Under the terms of the registration rights agreement, investors in the entities we acquired in the formation transactions, including the Malkin Group, and investors in the option properties we acquired, received rights to have shares of common stock held by them registered for resale under the Securities Act and the Malkin Group has rights to demand underwritten offerings with respect to such resales. A shelf registration statement covering the shares held by these investors has been filed and is currently effective. In addition, under the terms of a registration rights agreement, purchasers of our senior unsecured notes received rights to have shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of the notes registered for resale under the Securities Act. We may also issue shares of common stock or operating partnership units in connection with future property, portfolio or business acquisitions. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our Class A common stock (including shares of our Class A common stock issued pursuant to our equity incentive plan) or operating partnership units in the public market, or upon exchange of operating partnership units, or the perception that such sales might occur could adversely affect the market price of the shares of our Class A common stock and traded OP units. In addition, future sales of shares of our Class A common stock may be dilutive to holders of shares of our common stock. Future issuances of debt securities or preferred units, which would rank senior to shares of our common stock upon our liquidation, and future issuances of equity securities (including operating partnership units), which would dilute the holdings of our existing common securityholders and may be senior to shares of our common stock for the purposes of making distributions, periodically or upon liquidation, may materially and adversely affect the market price of shares of our Class A common stock and traded OP units. In the future, we may issue debt or equity securities or make other borrowings. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities, preferred units and other loans and preferred shares will receive a distribution of our available assets before holders of shares of our common stock. We are not required to offer any such additional debt or equity securities to existing securityholders on a preemptive basis. Therefore, additional shares of our common stock issuances, directly or through convertible or exchangeable securities (including operating partnership units), warrants or options, will dilute the holdings of our existing common securityholders and such issuances or the perception of such issuances may reduce the market price of shares of our common stock. Our preferred units or shares, if issued, would likely have a preference on distribution payments, periodically or upon liquidation, which could limit our ability to make distributions to holders of shares of our common stock. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities or otherwise incur debt in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future capital raising efforts. Thus, holders of shares of our common stock bear the risk that our future issuances of debt or equity securities or our other borrowings will reduce the market price of shares of our Class A common stock and traded OP units and dilute their ownership in us.Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill. The impairment of a significant portion of this goodwill could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our balance sheet includes goodwill of approximately $491.5 million at December 31, 2014. These assets consist primarily of goodwill associated with our acquisition of the controlling interest in Empire State Building Company L.L.C. and 501 Seventh Avenue Associates L.L.C. We also expect to engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional goodwill. Under accounting standards goodwill is not amortized. On an annual basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value or goodwill may be impaired, we are required to assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill. If the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. An impairment of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Tax Risks Related to Ownership of Our Shares Our failure to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT would subject us to U.S. federal income tax and applicable state and local taxes, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our securityholders.We have been organized and we intend to operate in a manner that we believe will enable us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2013. We have not requested and do not intend to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, that we qualify as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions and Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder for which there are limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of applicable Treasury Regulations is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its assets through partnerships. To qualify as a REIT, 32we must meet, on an ongoing basis, various tests regarding the nature and diversification of our assets and our income, the ownership of our outstanding shares, and the amount of our distributions. Our ability to satisfy these asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to manage successfully the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Moreover, new legislation, court decisions or administrative guidance, in each case possibly with retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. Thus, while we intend to operate so that we will qualify as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we will so qualify for any particular year. These considerations also might restrict the types of assets that we can acquire in the future. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to our securityholders would not be deductible by us in determining our taxable income. In such a case, we might need to borrow money, sell assets, or reduce or even cease making distributions in order to pay our taxes. Our payment of income tax would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for distribution to our securityholders. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our net taxable income to our securityholders. In addition, unless we were eligible for certain statutory relief provisions, we could not re-elect to qualify as a REIT until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we failed to qualify.Complying with the REIT requirements may cause us to forego and/or liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that we meet the REIT gross income tests annually. In addition, we must ensure that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our total assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and certain kinds of mortgage-backed securities. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities, securities of corporations that are treated as Taxable REIT Subsidiaries ("TRSs") and qualified REIT real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these asset requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. To meet these tests, we may be required to take or forgo taking actions that we otherwise would otherwise consider advantageous. For instance, in order to satisfy the gross income or asset tests applicable to REITs under the Code, we may be required to forego investments that we otherwise would make. Furthermore, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio otherwise attractive investments. In addition, we may be required to make distributions to securityholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our securityholders. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our investment performance.The REIT distribution requirements could require us to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions or subject us to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our securityholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our securityholders, on an annual basis, at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains. In addition, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income (including net capital gains) and will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal income tax laws. We intend to distribute our net income to our securityholders in a manner intended to satisfy the REIT 90% distribution requirement and to avoid U.S. federal income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. In addition, our taxable income may exceed our net income as determined by GAAP because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may incur nondeductible capital expenditures or be required to make debt or amortization payments. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year and we may incur U.S. federal income tax 33and the 4% nondeductible excise tax on that income if we do not distribute such income to securityholders in that year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt or liquidate assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable or make a taxable distribution of our shares in order to satisfy the REIT 90% distribution requirement and to avoid U.S. federal income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in that year.If our operating partnership is treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will cease to qualify as a REIT. We believe our operating partnership qualifies as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Assuming that it qualifies as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our operating partnership will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including us, is required to pay tax on its allocable share of the operating partnership’s income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS will not challenge our operating partnership’s status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating our operating partnership as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, therefore, cease to qualify as a REIT and our operating partnership would become subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax. The payment by our operating partnership of income tax would reduce significantly the amount of cash available to our partnership to satisfy obligations to make principal and interest payments on its debt and to make distribution to its partners, including us.Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may incur tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, taxes on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, franchise, property and transfer taxes, including mortgage recording taxes. In addition, ESRT Observatory TRS, L.L.C., a New York limited liability company, or Observatory TRS, ESRT Holdings TRS, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company, or Holding TRS, and any other TRSs we own will be subject to U.S. federal, state and local corporate income taxes. In order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avoid the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from sales of inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, we will hold some of our assets through taxable C corporations, including TRSs. Any taxes paid by such subsidiary corporations would decrease the cash available for distribution to our securityholders.If we are not able to continue to lease the Empire State Building observatory to a TRS in a manner consistent with the ruling that we have received from the IRS, or if we are not able to maintain our broadcast licenses in a manner consistent with the ruling we have received from the IRS, we would be required to restructure our operations in a manner that could adversely affect the value of our stock. Rents from real property are generally not qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests if the rent is treated as “related party rent.” Related party rent generally includes (i) any rent paid by a corporation if the REIT (or any person who owns 10% or more of the stock of the REIT by value) directly or indirectly owns 10% or more of the stock of the corporation by vote or value and (ii) rent paid by a partnership if the REIT (or any person who owns 10% or more of the stock of the REIT by value) directly or indirectly owns an interest of 10% or more in the assets or net profits of the partnership. Under an exception to this rule, related party rent is treated as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests if it is paid by a TRS of the REIT and (i) at least 90% of the leased space in the relevant property is rented to persons other than either TRSs or other related parties of the REIT, and (ii) the amounts paid to the REIT as rent from real property are substantially comparable to the rents paid by unrelated tenants of the REIT for comparable space. Income from admissions to the Empire State Building observatory, and certain other income generated by the observatory, would not likely be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. We jointly elected with Observatory TRS, which is the current lessee and operator of the observatory and which is wholly owned by our operating partnership, for Observatory TRS to be treated as a TRS of ours for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Observatory TRS leases the Empire State Building observatory from the operating partnership pursuant to a lease that provides for fixed base rental payments and variable rental payments equal to certain percentages of Observatory TRS’s gross receipts from the operation of the observatory. Given the unique nature of the real estate comprising the observatory, we do not believe that there is any space in the Empire State Building or in the same geographic area as the Empire State Building that is likely to be considered sufficiently comparable to the observatory for the purpose of applying the exception to related party rent described above. We have received from the IRS a private letter ruling that the rent that our operating partnership receives from Observatory TRS pursuant to the lease of the Empire State Building observatory is qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests so long as such rent reflects the fair market rental value of the Empire State Building observatory as determined by an appraisal rendered by a qualified third party appraiser. 34In addition, our operating partnership has acquired various license agreements (i) granting certain third party broadcasters the right to use space on the tower on the top of the Empire State Building for certain broadcasting and other communication purposes and (ii) granting certain third party vendors the right to operate concession stands in the observatory. We have received from the IRS a private letter ruling that the license fees that our operating partnership receives under the license agreements described above constitute qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. We are entitled to rely upon these private letter rulings only to the extent that we did not misstate or omit a material fact in the ruling request and that we continue to operate in accordance with the material facts described in such request, and no assurance can be given that we will always be able to do so. If we were not able to treat the rent that our operating partnership receives from Observatory TRS as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests, we would be required to restructure the manner in which we operate the observatory, which would likely require us to cede operating control of the observatory by leasing the observatory to an affiliate or third party operator. If we were not able to treat the license fees that our operating partnership will receive from the license agreements described above as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests, we would be required to enter into the license agreements described above through a TRS, which would cause the license fees to be subject to U.S. federal income tax and accordingly reduce the amount of our cash flow available to be distributed to our securityholders. In either case, if we are not able to appropriately restructure our operations in a timely manner, we would likely realize significant income that does not qualify for the REIT gross income tests, which could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT.Although our use of TRSs may partially mitigate the impact of meeting certain requirements necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT, there are limits on our ability to own TRSs, and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. We have jointly elected with each of Observatory TRS and Holding TRS, for each of Observatory TRS and Holding TRS to be treated as a TRS under the Code for U.S. federal income tax purposes following the completion of the formation transactions. Observatory TRS, Holding TRS, and any other TRSs that we form pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us unless necessary to maintain our REIT qualification. Although we monitor the aggregate value of the securities of such TRSs and intend to conduct our affairs so that such securities will represent less than 25% of the value of our total assets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the TRS limitation in all market conditions.Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations, which could adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for certain qualified dividends payable to U.S. securityholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates and therefore may be subject to a 39.6% maximum U.S. federal income tax rate on ordinary income when paid to such securityholders. Although the reduced U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to dividend income from regular corporate dividends does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our Class A common stock.Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our assets and operations. Under these provisions, any income that we generate from transactions intended to hedge our interest rate risk will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests if the instrument hedges interest rate risk on liabilities used to carry or acquire real estate assets, and such instrument is properly identified under applicable Treasury Regulations. Income from hedging transactions that do not meet these requirements will generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of both 35the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRS would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in our TRS will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the TRS.The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT election without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our securityholders. Our charter provides that the board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our securityholders, if the board determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our net taxable income and we generally would no longer be required to distribute any of our net taxable income to our securityholders, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our securityholders. We may have inherited tax liabilities from the entities that have been merged into our company or our subsidiaries in the formation transactions. Pursuant to the formation transactions, Malkin Properties of Connecticut, Inc., a Connecticut corporation, or Malkin Properties CT, and Malkin Construction Corp., a Connecticut corporation, or Malkin Construction merged with and into a subsidiary of ours, with the subsidiary surviving, in a transaction that was intended to be treated as a reorganization under the Code. Each of Malkin Properties CT and Malkin Construction had previously elected to be treated as an S Corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 1361 of the Code with respect to periods preceding our formation transaction. If either of Malkin Properties CT or Malkin Construction had failed to qualify as an S corporation with respect to periods preceding our formation transaction, we could have assumed material U.S. federal income tax liabilities in connection with the formation transactions and/or may be subject to certain other adverse tax consequences. In addition, to qualify as a REIT under these circumstances, we would be required to distribute, prior to the close of our first taxable year in which we elect to be taxed as a REIT under the Code, any earnings and profits of these entities to which we were deemed to succeed. No rulings from the IRS were requested and no opinions of counsel were rendered regarding the U.S. federal income tax treatment of any of Malkin Properties CT or Malkin Construction with respect to periods preceding our formation transaction. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that Malkin Properties CT or Malkin Construction qualified as an S corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes during such periods, or that these entities did not have any other tax liabilities. In addition, the supervisor merged with a subsidiary of our operating partnership in the formation transactions, and as a result, we may have inherited any liabilities, including any tax liabilities, of the supervisor.Legislative or regulatory tax changes related to REITs could materially and adversely affect our business. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be changed, possibly with retroactive effect. We cannot predict if or when any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective or whether any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our securityholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. Your investment has various tax risks. Although this section describes certain tax risks relevant to an investment in shares of our Class A common stock, you should consult your tax advisor concerning the effects of U.S. federal, state, local and foreign tax laws to you with regard to an investment in shares of our Class A common stock.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSAs of December 31, 2014, we did not have any unresolved comments with the staff of the SEC. 36