ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. In recent years it has been the policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, interest rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at historically low levels. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has resulted in increases in net interest income in the short term. However, our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the near future. Accordingly, our net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may decrease, which may have an adverse affect on our profitability. For information with respect to changes in interest rates, see “—Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.” Our emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks, which could hurt our profits. We originate commercial business loans, commercial real estate loans and residential investment property loans generally within our primary lending market area. These loans, which totaled $58.1 million, or 31.9% of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2012, generally have a higher risk of loss compared to our one- to four-family residential real estate loans. Commercial business loans and commercial real estate loans may expose us to greater credit risk than our loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial business loans and commercial real estate loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: · commercial business loans - repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. · commercial real estate loans - repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. · residential investment property loans (one- to four-family and multi-family) — repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover property maintenance and debt service. In addition, if loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time we originated the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Also, the collateral underlying commercial business loans may fluctuate in value. Some of our commercial business loans are collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable or other business assets, and the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use. Our construction lending may expose us to increased lending risks, which could hurt our profits. At December 31, 2012, we had $12.2 million of construction loans, representing 6.7% of our total loan portfolio at that date. These loans generally have a higher risk of loss compared to our one- to four-family residential real estate loans. Construction lending involves additional risks because of the inherent difficulty in estimating a property’s value both before and at completion of the project. Construction costs may exceed original estimates as a result of increased materials, labor or other costs. In addition, because of current uncertainties in the residential and commercial real estate markets, property values have become more difficult to determine than they have been historically. Repayment of construction loans often depends on the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property. These loans also require ongoing monitoring. 33 Table of Contents Our level of non-performing loans increased to $3.2 million, or 1.75% of total loans at December 31, 2012 from $3.1 million, or 1.92% of total loans at December 31, 2011. Such continued increases could result in charge-offs or provisions for loan losses that are higher than our historical levels. See “—If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease.” A significant portion of our loan portfolio consists of recently originated or purchased loans. Our commercial loan portfolio (including commercial and multi-family real estate loans, residential investment property loans, and business loans and construction loans) has grown to $70.3 million at December 31, 2012 from $24.0 million at June 30, 2006. Additionally, our residential loan portfolio (including home equity loans) has grown to $111.1 million at December 31, 2012 from $79.7 million at December 31, 2011. It is difficult to assess the future performance of these recently originated loans. As a result, these loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Our business may be adversely affected by continued weak conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally and locally. Recent economic conditions have resulted in continued uncertainty in the financial markets and continued expectations of weak general economic conditions. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. The credit quality of loan and investment securities portfolios has deteriorated at many financial institutions and the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Financial companies’ stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. A continuation or worsening of these conditions could result in reduced loan demand and further increases in loan delinquencies, loan losses, loan loss provisions, costs associated with monitoring delinquent loans and disposing of foreclosed property, and otherwise negatively affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. Further, a decline in the stock market in general, or for stocks of financial institutions and their holding companies, could affect our stock performance. Our local economy may affect our future growth possibilities and operations in our primary market area. Our future growth opportunities depend on the growth and stability of our regional economy and our ability to expand our market area. In addition, nearly all of our loans are to customers in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and particularly Essex County. Continued weak conditions in our local economy may limit funds available for deposit and may negatively affect our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans on a timely basis, both of which could have an impact on our profitability. Also, a decline in real estate valuations in this market would lower the value of the collateral securing our loans. Income from secondary mortgage market operations is volatile, and we may incur losses or charges with respect to our secondary mortgage market operations which would negatively affect our earnings. We generally sell in the secondary market the longer term fixed-rate residential mortgage loans that we originate, earning non-interest income in the form of gains on sale. When interest rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall and may reduce the number of loans available for sale. In addition to interest rate levels, weak or deteriorating economic conditions also tend to reduce loan demand. Although we sell loans in the secondary market without recourse, we are required to give customary representations and warranties to the buyers. If we breach those representations and warranties, the buyers can require us to repurchase the loans and we may incur a loss on the repurchase. Because we generally retain the servicing rights on the loans we sell in the secondary market, we are required to record a mortgage servicing right asset, which we test quarterly for impairment. The value of mortgage servicing rights tend to increase with rising interest rates and to decrease with falling interest rates. If we are required to take an impairment charge, that would hurt our earnings. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. At December 31, 2012, our allowance for loan losses totaled $1.8 million, or 0.98% of total loans and 56.06% of non-performing loans at that date. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses also would materially decrease our net income, and the charge-off of loans may cause us to increase the allowance. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, 34 Table of Contents including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We rely on our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability depends substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand (which would also decrease our ability to generate non-interest income through the sale of loans into the secondary market and related fees for continuing to service those sold loans) and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. In addition, as market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits. Because an increase in rates we pay on deposits would be expected to be faster than an increase in the yields we earn on our interest-earning assets, such an increase would be expected to result in a decrease of our net interest income. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect our results of operations. Georgetown Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, as its chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as the insurer of its deposits up to certain limits. In addition, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates and oversees the Company. We also belong to the Federal Home Loan Bank system and, as a member of such system, we are subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect our depositors and borrowers and, in the case of Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation regulation, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s insurance fund. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution’s allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, other state or federal regulators, or the U.S. Congress could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), among other things, has and will change the bank regulatory framework, created an independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and established more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. The legislation will also result in new regulations affecting the lending, funding, trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as Georgetown Bank, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. Banks and savings institutions with $10.0 billion or less in assets, such as Georgetown Bank, will continue to be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The new legislation also weakens the federal preemption available for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the federal banking agencies to promulgate rules requiring mortgage lenders to retain a portion of the credit risk related to sold loans. Such rules would be expected to reduce our ability to sell loans into the secondary market. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of new legislation and regulatory actions in response to these conditions, may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business activities, including our ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These measures are likely to increase our costs of doing business and increase our costs related to regulatory compliance, and may have a significant adverse effect on our lending activities, financial performance and 35 Table of Contents operating flexibility. In addition, these risks could affect the performance and value of our loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect our financial performance. Furthermore, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. If the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively affect the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry within our market area is intense. In our market area we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and broader range of deposit and loan products offered by our competition may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets and profitability. We expect competition to remain intense in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Technological advances, for example, have lowered barriers to entry, allowed banks to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally have been provided by banks. Competition for deposits and the origination of loans could limit our ability to successfully implement our business plan, and could adversely affect our results of operations in the future. The expiration of unlimited Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance on certain non-interest-bearing transaction accounts may increase our costs and reduce our liquidity levels. On December 31, 2012, unlimited Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance on certain non-interest-bearing transaction accounts expired. Unlimited insurance coverage did not apply to money market deposit accounts or negotiable order of withdrawal accounts. The reduction in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance on other types of accounts to the standard $250,000 maximum amount may cause depositors to place such funds in fully insured interest-bearing accounts, which would increase our costs of funds and negatively affect our results of operations, or may cause depositors to withdraw their deposits and invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the United States Treasury. This may reduce our liquidity, or require us to pay higher interest rates to maintain our liquidity by retaining deposits. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired, our earnings and/or stockholders’ equity could decrease and our liquidity position could be negatively impacted. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston. We are required to hold this stock in order to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston’s advance program. The aggregate cost of our Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston common stock as of December 31, 2012 was $2.9 million based on its par value. There is no market for our Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston common stock. Published reports indicate that several banks in the Federal Home Loan Bank System may be subject to asset quality and other risks that could adversely affect its regulatory capital level. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capital of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there may be a risk that our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston common stock could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and shareholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. Furthermore, a reduction in capital of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston would have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity as we have relied on borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston to fund a portion of our operations and as a source of liquidity. Changes in the structure of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (“GSEs”) and the relationship among the GSEs, the federal government and the private markets, or the conversion of the current conservatorship of the GSEs into receivership, could result in significant changes to our securities portfolio. The GSEs are currently in conservatorship, with its primary regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, acting as conservator. We cannot predict if, when or how the conservatorships will end, or any associated changes to the GSEs’ business 36 Table of Contents structure that could result. We also cannot predict whether the conservatorships will end in receivership. There are several proposed approaches to reform the GSEs which, if enacted, could change the structure of the GSEs and the relationship among the GSEs, the government and the private markets, including the trading markets for agency conforming mortgage loans and markets for mortgage-related securities in which we participate. We cannot predict the prospects for the enactment, timing or content of legislative or rulemaking proposals regarding the future status of the GSEs. Accordingly, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the future of the GSEs, including whether they will continue to exist in their current form. GSE reform, if enacted, could result in a significant change and adversely impact our business operations. We rely on our management team for the successful implementation of our business strategy. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. Although we have employment agreements with our President and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy. Risks associated with system failures, interruptions, or breaches of security could negatively affect our earnings. Information technology systems are critical to our business. We use various technology systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, securities, deposits, and loans. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches, but such events may still occur and may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we rely on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. In addition, we outsource a majority of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for significant losses. Our risk management framework is designed to minimize risk and loss to us. We seek to identify, measure, monitor, report and control our exposure to risk, including strategic, market, liquidity, compliance and operational risks. While we use a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques, these techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks. Recent economic conditions and heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry, among other developments, have increased our level of risk. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to properly anticipate and manage these risks. Various factors may make takeover attempts more difficult to achieve. Provisions of the Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Georgetown Bank’s federal stock charter, Maryland law, shares of restricted stock and stock options that we have granted or may grant to employees and directors, stock ownership by our management and directors and employment agreements that we have entered into with our executive officers, and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of the Company without the consent of our board of directors. You may want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquiror could offer a premium over the then prevailing price of our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends is substantially dependent on capital distributions from Georgetown Bank and these distributions are subject to regulatory limits and other restrictions. We may not be able to pay dividends in the future. We are dependent primarily upon the Bank for our earnings and funds to pay dividends on our common stock. The payment of dividends also is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of 37 Table of Contents dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Bank’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 