Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This section discusses factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties applicable to our business. Risks Related to our Business We face the following risks related to the general conditions and trends of the industry in which we operate: We rely predominantly on contracts with U.S. government entities, and the loss or delay of a significant number of our contracts would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Our revenue is predominantly derived from providing services under contracts (revenue arrangements) with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. government. Although these various agencies and prime contractors are subject to common budgetary pressures and other factors, our customers exercise independent purchasing decisions. The loss or delay of all or a substantial portion of our revenue from our U.S. government customers would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Approximately 99%, or $1.6 billion, of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012 was attributable directly or indirectly to U.S. government departments and agencies. Aggregate revenue from our ten largest contracts amounted to approximately $627 million, or 38%, of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012. In addition to contract cancellations and declines in agency budgets, our backlog and future financial results may be adversely affected by: • curtailment of the U.S. government’s use of services providers, including curtailment due to government budget reductions and related fiscal matters; and • developments in Iraq or Afghanistan, or other geopolitical events that affect demand for our services. Finally, the government services marketplace is characterized by contracts of shorter duration as compared to large productions and systems integration programs. Services contracts may, including options, extend to ten or fifteen years, but most usually last five years or less. A decline in or a redirection of the U.S. defense budget could result in a material decrease in our revenue, results of operations and cash flows. Our government contracts and revenue are primarily correlated and dependent upon the U.S. defense budget which is subject to the congressional budget authorization and appropriations process. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a September 30 fiscal year basis, even though contract periods of performance may extend over many years. Consequently, at the beginning of a major program, the contract is usually partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as appropriations are made by Congress in future fiscal years. DoD budgets are a function of several factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in U.S. procurement policies, budget considerations, current and future economic conditions, presidential administration priorities, changing national security and defense requirements, geo-political developments and actual fiscal year congressional appropriations for defense budgets. Any of these factors could result in a significant decline in, or redirection of, current and future DoD budgets and impact our future results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if the existing statutory limit on the amount of permissible federal debt is not raised, we may be required to continue to perform for some period of time on certain of our U.S. government contracts even if the U.S. government is unable to fund or make timely payments. An extended delay in the timely payment of billings by the U.S. government would likely result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In August 2011, Congress enacted the Budget Control Act, or BCA, which, while raising the existing statutory limit on the amount of permissible federal debt, also committed the U.S. government to significantly reducing the federal deficit over ten years. The BCA established caps on discretionary spending through 2021, reducing federal spending by over $1 trillion over that period 13 Table of Contents relative to the fiscal year (FY) 2012 Presidential budget submission and called for very substantial automatic spending cuts, known as “sequestration,” split evenly between defense and non-defense programs. In January 2013, Congress enacted the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012. It addressed a number of tax code provisions and certain spending issues, but left in place the sequester (although delaying its implementation to March 1, 2013) and did not address other fiscal matters such as the debt ceiling. On February 13, 2012, the Obama Administration submitted its FY 2013 proposed budget (FY 2013 DoD Plan) to Congress which complies with the first phase of the BCA imposed spending cuts, but does not address the BCA sequestration cuts. The FY 2013 DoD Plan reduced DoD base budgets by $259 billion for FY 2013 to FY 2017, compared to the previously proposed budgets. Congress has not yet authorized or appropriated a FY 2013 DoD budget. Instead, Congress enacted a six-month Continuing Resolution Authority which funds the DoD until March 27, 2013, at levels similar to the DoD FY12 budget, however, the ultimate DoD FY 2013 budget must comply with the BCA sequestration provisions. The Obama Administration’s proposed DoD FY 2014 budget, which was scheduled for release in February 2013, has been delayed to March 2013 or later, due to the ongoing debate between the Obama Administration and Congress about U.S. Federal government deficit reduction, including spending and revenue, debt levels and the BCA sequestration cuts. In addition, if the existing statutory limit on the amount of permissible federal debt is not raised by May 19, 2013, we may be required to continue to perform for some period of time on certain of our U.S. Government contracts even if the U.S. Government is unable to make timely payments. Furthermore, such limits could also potentially delay program/contract start dates in an effort to curb obligations until all debt negotiations are complete or the U.S. Government may issue a stop work order and later order the work to resume or may terminate the contract altogether. Any of these events would likely result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The declining DoD budgets are likely, in any event, to reduce funding for some of our revenue arrangements and will likely have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, the planned withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Afghanistan by the end of 2014 is expected to negatively impact our revenue related to supporting U.S. military operations in Afghanistan. The DoD’s wide-ranging efficiencies initiative, which targets affordability and cost growth, could have a material effect on the procurement process and may adversely affect our existing contracts and the awards of new contracts. The U.S. government has issued guidance regarding changes to the procurement process that is intended to control cost growth throughout the acquisition cycle by developing a competitive strategy for each program. As a result, we expect to engage in more frequent negotiations and re-competitions on a cost or price analysis basis with most competitive bids in which we participate. This initiative is organized into five major areas: affordability and cost growth; productivity and innovation; competition; services acquisition; and processes and bureaucracy. Because this initiative has significantly changed the way the U.S. government solicits, negotiates and manages its contracts, this initiative has resulted in a reduction in expenditures for services we provide to the U.S. government. In addition, the FY 2013 DoD Plan seeks reductions in contractor support services and consolidation of enterprise IT systems as part of an effort to achieve another $60 billion of efficiency savings over the five fiscal years FY 2013 through FY 2017. These initiatives may adversely affect our existing contracts and awards of new contracts and our results of operations and cash flow. There is intense competition for contracts in our industry and awards are frequently protested by unsuccessful bidders. Thus, we may not be able to win competitively awarded contracts and, when we win, such awards may still be delayed or cancelled. Increased competition may reduce our revenue and require us to accept lower profit margins on our awarded contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts at our historic levels. The markets in which our businesses operate are highly competitive and our government contracts are usually subject to competitive bidding. We expect increased competition because of the uncertainty of future U.S. defense and government service budgets. Furthermore, the current competitive environment has resulted in an increase of bid protests from unsuccessful bidders, which typically extends the time until work on a contract can begin and, in some cases, can result in cancellation of the protested contract award. Additionally, some of our competitors are larger than we are and have more financial and other resources than we have. In addition, the revenue and profit margins on our awarded contracts may not be sufficient to maintain our current levels of profitability. We are also subject to risks associated with the substantial time, effort and experience required to prepare bids and proposals for competitively awarded contracts that may not be awarded to us. We believe the principal points of competition in our markets are price, performance, reliability and responsiveness, domain knowledge, and reputation. Maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment by us in marketing, customer service and support. We may not be successful in maintaining our competitive position. Our competitors may develop more 14 Table of Contents efficient or effective methods of providing services or may adapt more quickly than we do to evolving customer requirements. Additionally, increased competition could increase pricing pressures resulting in margin decline to stay competitive. Failure to continue competing successfully could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts are not firm orders for services, and we may generate limited or no revenue from these contracts which could adversely affect our operating performance. Revenue from IDIQ contracts was 67%, 81% and 80% of our revenue in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. IDIQ contracts are typically awarded to multiple contractors and the award of an IDIQ contract does not represent a firm order for services. Generally, under an IDIQ contract, the government is not obligated to order a minimum of services or supplies from its contractor, irrespective of the total estimated contract value. Furthermore, following an award under a multi-award IDIQ program, the customer develops requirements for task orders that are competitively bid against all of the contract awardees. However, many contracts also permit the government customer to direct work to a specific contractor. Notwithstanding our cost reduction measures and strategic realignment, we may not win new task orders under these contracts for various reasons, including price, past performance and responsiveness, among others, which would have an adverse effect on our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and loss of revenue. There can be no assurance that our existing IDIQ contracts will result in actual revenue during any particular period or at all. Our government contracts contain unfavorable termination and suspension provisions and are subject to audit and modification. If a termination or suspension right is exercised by the government, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Companies engaged primarily in supplying defense-related services to U.S. government agencies are subject to certain industry specific risks including the ability of the U.S. government to unilaterally: • terminate existing contracts; • reduce the value of existing contracts; • audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; • control and potentially prohibit the export of our services and associated products; and • suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations. All of our U.S. government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions provide for the contractor to be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items from another source and could damage our reputation, and impair our ability to compete for future contracts. Our contracts with foreign governments generally contain similar provisions relating to termination at the convenience of the customer. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and various agency Inspectors General, routinely audit and investigate our costs and performance on contracts, as well as our accounting, business systems and general business practices. Based on the results of such audits, the U.S. government may reduce our contract related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. In addition, under U.S. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including certain business acquisition costs, certain legal costs, most financing costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be reimbursable under U.S. government contracts. Our results of operations and cash flows are substantially affected by our mix of cost-plus, time-and-material and fixed-price type contracts. Our revenue is transacted using written revenue arrangements, or contracts, which are generally cost-plus, time-and-material, or fixed-price. For a description of our revenue recognition policies, see Note 1 to our Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements. On a cost-plus type contract (revenue arrangement), we are paid our allowable incurred costs plus a profit which can be fixed or variable depending on the contract’s fee arrangement up to predetermined funding levels determined by our customers. Cost-plus type contracts with award fee provisions are our primary variable contract fee arrangement. Award fees provide for a fee based on actual performance relative to contractually specified performance criteria. 15 Table of Contents On a time-and-material type contract (revenue arrangement), we are paid on the basis of direct labor hours expended at specified fixed-price hourly rates (that include wages, overhead, allowable general and administrative expenses and profit) and materials at cost. On a fixed-price type service contract (revenue arrangement), we agree to perform the contractual statement of work for a predetermined sales price. Although a fixed-price type contract generally permits us to retain profits if the total actual contract costs are less than the estimated contract costs, we bear the risk that increased costs may reduce our profit or cause us to sustain losses on the contract. This may result in greater risk to our business than under a cost-plus type and time-and-material type contracts where we generally do not bear the risks of unexpected cost overruns, provided that we do not incur costs that exceed the predetermined funded amounts. If we are unable to attract and retain key management and personnel, we may become unable to operate our business effectively. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management, and our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and technical personnel, including employees who have U.S. government security clearances, particularly clearances of top-secret and above. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies for members of our management. We face competition for management and technical personnel from other companies and organizations. Failure to attract and retain such personnel would damage our future prospects. Goodwill represents a significant asset on our balance sheet and we may experience further impairments. If we experience additional impairments in our goodwill, or if our other intangible assets become impaired, then we will be required to take further non-cash charges against earnings. In connection with the preparation of our third quarter 2012 financial statements, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $426 million following an interim test of our goodwill. While this charge had no impact on our business operations, cash balances or operating cash flows, it resulted in a significant loss from operations during the period. Following this charge, goodwill remains the largest asset on our balance sheet, with an aggregate balance of $478 million at December 31, 2012. Since goodwill impairment calculations are based on estimates, including external factors that are outside of our control such as future market and economic conditions, it is possible that we may need to take additional goodwill impairment charges in the future. Goodwill may be further impaired if the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units’ goodwill is less than the carrying value of the unit’s goodwill. We also perform an analysis of our intangible assets to test for impairment whenever events occur that indicate impairment could exist. Examples of such events are: significant adverse changes in the intangible asset’s market value, useful life, or in the business climate that could affect its value; a current-period operating or cash flow loss or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of the intangible asset; and a current expectation that, more likely than not, the intangible asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement regulations and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from a U.S. government audit or investigation. U.S. government contractors must comply with many significant procurement regulations and other requirements. These regulations and requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our costs of compliance and, commensurately, the cost of performance. If any such regulations or procurement requirements change, our costs of complying with them could increase and reduce our margins. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. government and its agencies such as the DCAA and Defense Contract Management Agency. These agencies review our performance under our contracts, our cost structure, our incurred costs and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. As a result of our multiple historical business acquisitions, we currently have eight former business units that could be subject to DCAA audit, going back as far as 2002 for certain of these business units. Systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to incurred cost audits, our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, compensation systems and management information systems. Any costs found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. Whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the U.S. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems business systems subject to its review to be inadequate or if it believes it is in the government’s best interests during the pendency of a dispute. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. 16 Table of Contents Effective January 1, 2013, we implemented a strategic realignment that included material changes in our cost structure. Changes in cost accounting practices are subject to a required procedure for determining the cost impact of any accounting changes. The federal government is generally protected from paying increased costs resulting from a contractor’s accounting changes. Were the government to require further changes to our cost structure, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. We are also, from time to time, subject to U.S. government investigations relating to our operations, and we are subject to or expected to perform in compliance with a vast array of federal laws and regulations, including but not limited to the Truth in Negotiations Act, the False Claims Act, the Procurement Integrity Act, Cost Accounting Standards, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, the Close the Contractor Fraud Loophole Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. An indictment of the Company by a federal grand jury, or an administrative finding against us as to our present responsibility to be a U.S. government contractor or subcontractor, could result in us being suspended for a period of time from eligibility for awards of new government contracts or task orders or in a loss of export privileges. In addition, a conviction, or an administrative finding against us that rises to the requisite level of seriousness, could result in debarment from contracting with the U.S. government for a specific term and could result in civil and/or criminal sanctions, as well as reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination and the assessment of penalties and fines, compensatory or treble damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. We are also limited in our ability to provide information about our classified programs, their risks or any disputes or claims relating to these programs. Classified programs are subject to security restrictions and preclude the dissemination of information that is classified for national security purposes. As a result, investors have less insight into our classified programs than our other businesses and therefore less ability to fully evaluate the risks related to our classified business. We are subject to the risks of current and future legal and regulatory proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. We are subject to potential liability relating to claims, complaints and proceedings as well as various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in foreign countries and in the United States, any violations of which could potentially create a substantial liability for us, and also could cause harm to our reputation. Changes in laws, ordinances, regulations or other government policies, the nature, timing, and effect of which are uncertain, may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities. From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings that are incidental to the operation of our businesses. We may become subject to significant claims of which we are currently unaware, or the claims of which we are aware may result in our incurring a significantly greater liability than we anticipate or can estimate. Additionally, we may receive fines or penalties if a regulatory agency determines that we have failed to comply with laws, regulations or orders applicable to our business. Misconduct, fraud or other improper activities by our employees, subcontractors, agents or business partners could also have a significant adverse impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with federal, state or local government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, laws and regulations relating to bribery of foreign government officials, import-export control, lobbying or similar activities, and any other applicable laws or regulations. Misconduct involving data security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use of our customer’s sensitive or classified information could result in remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. Other examples of potential misconduct include falsifying time or other records and violations of the Anti-Kickback Act. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and controls to prevent and detect these activities, these precautions may not prevent all misconduct and as a result, we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or misconduct by any of our employees, subcontractors, agents or business partners could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance, loss of current and future customer contracts and suspension or debarment from contracting with federal, state or local government agencies, any of which would adversely affect our business, our reputation and our future results. Although we maintain insurance policies, these policies may not be adequate to protect us from all material judgments and expenses related to current or future claims and may not cover the conduct that is the subject of the litigation. Desired levels of insurance may not be available in the future at economical prices or at all. In addition, we believe that while we have valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against us, the results of litigation can be difficult to predict, including those involving jury trials. Accordingly, our current judgment as to the likelihood of our loss (or our current estimate as to the potential range of loss, if applicable) with respect to any particular litigation matter may turn out to be wrong. A significant judgment against us, arising out of any of our current or future legal proceedings and litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with operating internationally. Our business operations are subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, including: • Changes in or interpretations of foreign laws or policies that may adversely affect the performance of our services; • Political instability in foreign countries; • Imposition of inconsistent laws or regulations; • Conducting business in places where laws, business practices and customs are unfamiliar or unknown; and • Imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on payments by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures. In addition, our U.S. and foreign operations are subject to U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-corruption laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot assure that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Our continued expansion outside the U.S., including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Any violation related to the foregoing could result in substantial fines, disgorgement, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. Although such risks have not significantly impacted our business to date, we do not know the impact that these regulatory, geopolitical and other factors could have on our business in the future. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats and other disruptions. As a U.S. defense contractor, we face various security threats, including cyber security attacks to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information as well as threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate these threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent disruptions in mission critical systems, the unauthorized release of confidential information and corruption of data. Accordingly, any significant operational delays, or any destruction, manipulation or improper use of our data, information systems or networks could adversely affect our financial results and damage the reputation for our services. Our level of indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We incurred a significant level of indebtedness in connection with the Spin-Off. As of December 31, 2012, our total principal indebtedness was $335 million, and we had availability of $64 million under our revolving credit facility (net of outstanding letters of credit). Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; 18 Table of Contents • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or forcing us to divest assets to raise capital; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less leveraged. We are required to make scheduled quarterly payments of $12.6 million with the balance to be due and payable on July 17, 2017. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, as well as any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including (i) reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or (ii) dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. In addition, our ability to withstand competitive pressures and to react to changes in our industry could be impaired. The lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due. In addition, we may increase our debt or raise additional capital, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. If our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, or if our cash requirements are more than we expect, we may require more financing. However, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. The terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. If we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, your percentage ownership in us would decline. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, it could affect our financial health, which could negatively affect your investment in us. Also, regardless of the terms of our debt or equity financing, the amount of our stock that we can issue may be limited because the issuance of our stock may cause the distribution to be a taxable event for L-3 under Section 355(e) of the Code, and under the Tax Matters Agreement, we could be required to indemnify L-3 for that tax. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that could impair our ability to finance our future operations and, if we are unable to meet specified financial ratios therein, could cause our debt to be accelerated. Our debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: sell assets; create liens; incur more indebtedness; repay certain indebtedness; make certain investments or business acquisitions; make certain capital expenditures; engage in business mergers or consolidations or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; make dividends or other distributions; engage in a new line of business; and engage in certain transactions with affiliates. These restrictions could impair our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interests. In addition, our debt agreements require us to maintain compliance with certain specified financial ratios, including those relating to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and consolidated indebtedness. Our ability to comply with these ratios and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control and there can be no assurance we will continue to meet these ratios. A breach of any of these debt agreements or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or covenants included therein could result in a default under those debt agreements. In the event of any such default, the lenders under those debt agreements could elect to declare all outstanding debt, accrued interest and fees to be due and immediately payable, and require us to apply all of our available cash to repay our outstanding senior debt. Risks Relating to Our Spin-Off from L-3 We face the following risks related to the Spin-Off: We may be responsible for U.S. federal income tax liabilities that relate to the distribution. L-3 received the IRS Ruling stating that L-3 and its shareholders will not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the Spin-Off, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares. In addition, the Spin-Off was conditioned on the receipt of an opinion of tax counsel as to the satisfaction of certain requirements necessary for the Spin-Off to receive tax-free treatment upon which the IRS will not rule. The IRS Ruling, while generally binding upon the IRS, is 19 Table of Contents based on certain factual statements and representations. If any such factual statements or representations are incomplete or untrue in any material respect, or if the facts on which the IRS Ruling is based are materially different from the facts at the time of the Spin-Off, the IRS could modify or revoke the IRS Ruling retroactively. As discussed above, certain requirements for tax-free treatment that were not covered in the IRS Ruling are addressed in the opinion of tax counsel. An opinion of tax counsel is not binding on the IRS. Accordingly, the IRS may reach conclusions with respect to the Spin-Off that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinion. Like the IRS Ruling, the opinion was based on certain factual statements and representations, which, if incomplete or untrue in any material respect, could alter tax counsel’s conclusions. At the time of the Spin-Off, L-3 was not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause any such factual statements or representations in the IRS Ruling or the opinion of tax counsel to be incomplete or untrue or cause the facts on which the IRS Ruling is based, or the opinion will be based, to be materially different from the facts at the time of the Spin-Off. If, notwithstanding the receipt of the IRS ruling and the opinion of tax counsel, the IRS were to determine the Spin-Off to be taxable, L-3 would recognize a substantial tax liability. Even if the Spin-Off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, the distribution would be taxable to L-3 (but not to L-3 shareholders) pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code if there are one or more acquisitions (including issuances) of the stock of either us or L-3, representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of the then-outstanding stock of either corporation and the acquisition or acquisitions are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution. Any acquisition of our common stock within two years before or after the distribution (with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% shareholders and certain compensatory stock issuances) generally will be presumed to be part of such a plan unless that presumption is rebutted. The resulting tax liability may have a material adverse effect on both our and L-3’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have agreed not to enter into any transaction that could cause any portion of the Spin-Off to be taxable to L-3, including under Section 355(e). Pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement, we also agreed to indemnify L-3 for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions, and L-3 agreed to indemnify us for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions entered into by L-3. In addition, under U.S. Treasury regulations, each member of the L-3 consolidated group at the time of the Spin-Off (including us and our subsidiaries) would be severally liable for the resulting U.S. Federal income tax liability if all or a portion of the spin does not qualify as a tax-free transaction. These obligations may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. We have a limited operating history as an independent company and our historical financial information may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical financial information we have included in this Annual Report related to periods prior to the Spin-Off has been derived in part from L-3’s consolidated financial statements and does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been as a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. L-3 did not account for us, and we were not operated, as a single stand-alone entity for the periods presented even if we represented an important business in L-3’s historical consolidated financial statements. In addition, the historical information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future. Our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we are now subject as an independent public company. Our financial results previously were included within the consolidated results of L-3, and we believe that our financial reporting and internal controls were appropriate for those of subsidiaries of a public company. However, we were not directly subject to the reporting and other requirements of the Exchange Act. As a result of the Spin-Off, we are now directly subject to reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act. Beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2013, we will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm as to whether we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the last day of the year. These reporting and other obligations may place significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. To comply with these requirements, we may need to upgrade our systems; implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; and hire additional accounting and finance staff. We expect to incur additional annual expenses for the purpose of addressing these requirements, and those expenses may be significant. If we are 20 Table of Contents unable to upgrade our financial and management controls, reporting systems, information technology systems and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies under the Exchange Act could be impaired. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock You face the following risks in connection with ownership of our common stock: There is not a long market history for our common stock and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. There is not a long market history for our common stock, and its market price may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • changes in DoD budget levels and procurement priorities; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; • wins and losses on contract re-competitions and new business pursuits; • success or failure of our business strategy; • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; • our ability to obtain financing as needed; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • the number of securities analysts to cover our common stock; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • investor perception of our company and the defense industry, including changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. government defense budget; • the availability of government funding and changes in customer requirements for our products and services; • natural or environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; • overall market fluctuations; • fluctuations in the budget of federal, state and local governmental entities around the world; results from any material litigation or government investigation; • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and • general economic conditions and other external factors. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents We do not plan to pay dividends on our common stock and our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock in the future. We do not currently plan to pay a regular dividend on our common stock. The declaration of any future cash dividends and, if declared, the amount of any such dividends, will be subject to our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, financial covenants and other contractual restrictions and to the discretion of our Board of Directors. Additionally, our credit agreement places significant restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. Our Board of Directors may take into account such matters as general business conditions, industry practice, our financial condition and performance, our future prospects, our cash needs and capital investment plans, income tax consequences applicable law and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. There can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividend if we do commence the payment of dividends Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law, and limitations related to the Spin-Off, could delay or prevent a change in control. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable. For example, the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws, among other things, provide for a classified board and require advance notice for shareholder proposals and nominations. In addition, the amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and sales or other dispositions of 10% or more of the assets of the corporation with or to an interested shareholder. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, we agreed not to enter into any transaction involving an acquisition (including issuance) of Engility common stock or any other similar transaction (or, to the extent we have the right to prohibit it, to permit any such transaction) that could cause the distribution to be taxable to L-3. We also agreed to indemnify L-3 for any tax resulting from any such transactions. Generally, L-3 will recognize taxable gain on the distribution if there are one or more acquisitions (including issuances) of our capital stock, directly or indirectly, representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of our then-outstanding capital stock, and the acquisitions or issuances are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution. Any such shares of our common stock acquired, directly or indirectly, within two years before or after the distribution (with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% shareholders and certain compensatory stock issuances) will generally be presumed to be part of such a plan unless that presumption is rebutted. As a result, our obligations may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 