D. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this annual report. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company or investments in the countries in which we operate. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” The market price of our common shares and ADSs may decrease due to any of these risks or other factors, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks facing our company described below and elsewhere in this annual report. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industries Economic conditions that impact consumer spending could materially affect us. Ongoing economic uncertainty in the world economy could negatively affect consumer confidence and spending, including discretionary spending. We may be materially affected by changes in economic conditions in the markets or in the regions in which we operate that impact consumer confidence and spending, including discretionary spending. This risk may be exacerbated if customers choose lower-cost alternatives to our product offerings in response to economic conditions. In particular, a decrease in discretionary spending could materially and adversely impact sales of certain of our high-margin product offerings. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income, such as employment levels, business conditions, changes in housing market conditions, the availability of credit, interest rates, tax rates and fuel and energy costs, could also reduce overall consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to lower-priced competitors. In addition, inflation or deflation can impact our business. Deflation in food prices could reduce sales growth and earnings, while inflation in food prices, combined with reduced consumer spending, could reduce our margins. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that in the event of an increase in inflation we will be able to pass on a price increase to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We face intense competition in each of our markets. The retail industry in Chile, Argentina, Brazil, Peru and Colombia is characterized by intense competition and increasing pressure on profit margins. The number and type of competitors and the degree of competition experienced by individual stores varies by location. Competition occurs on the basis of price, location, quality of products and service, product variety and store conditions. We face strong competition from international and domestic operators of supermarkets, home improvement stores, department stores and shopping centers, including Carrefour, Walmart, Falabella and Casino, and providers of financial services, and it is possible that in the future other large international retailers or financial services providers may enter the markets in which we compete, either through joint ventures or directly. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we do and could use these resources to take steps that could have a material and adverse effect on us. We also compete with numerous local and regional supermarket and retail store chains, as well as with small, family-owned neighborhood stores, informal markets, and street vendors. See “