Item 1A. Risk Factors.Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business Our industry is highly competitive. If we are not able to compete effectively, including against larger lighting manufacturers with greater resources, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our industry is highly competitive. We face competition from vendors of traditional lighting technologies and from vendors of newer innovative products. The lighting industry is characterized by rapid technological change, short product lifecycles, frequent new product introductions and a competitive pricing environment. These characteristics increase the need for continual innovation and, as new technologies evolve, provide entry points for new competitors as well as opportunities for rapid share shifts. Our products compete with a number of existing products and our success depends on our ability to effectively compete in this global market. Many of our competitors, such as Philips, General Electric, OSRAM, Cree and Acuity Brands are large, well-capitalized companies with significantly more resources than ours and they are able to spend more aggressively on product development, marketing, sales and other product initiatives. Our ability to compete effectively in our markets depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products based on various factors, including, among others: •breadth and quality of product offering; •product pricing and cost competitiveness; •access to distribution channels globally; •customer orientation and strong customer relationships; and •the success and timing of new product development. To the extent we are unable to distinguish our products, our larger competitors and any other more innovative competitors may be able to capture our customers and reduce our opportunities for success, which will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of our relationship with The Home Depot or Walmart, or a significant decline in either of their purchases, could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to distribute our products, and our financial condition and results of operations. Net sales to The Home Depot accounted for 24.6%, 31.4% and 28.8% of consolidated net sales in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Net sales to Walmart accounted for 19.5%, 13.0% and 10.3% of consolidated net sales in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We do not have a long-term contract with, or any volume commitments from, The Home Depot or Walmart. Our sales have been and may continue to be materially affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of The Home Depot or Walmart, and such fluctuations may result from general economic conditions, higher than anticipated inventory positions or other factors. Each such company may make decisions regarding its business undertakings with us that may be contrary to our interests, or may terminate its relationship with us altogether, which it may do at any time. In addition, if either company changes its business strategy or faces changes that decrease its customer base due to the economy or for any other reason, we may fail to maintain our relationship with such company. A loss of The Home Depot or Walmart as a customer, or a significant decline in either of their purchases from us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to distribute our products. Our products are subject to rapid technological changes. If we fail to accurately anticipate and adapt to these changes, the products we sell will become obsolete, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our products are subject to rapid technological changes and short product life cycles that often lead to price erosion and cause product obsolescence. Companies within the lighting industry are continuously developing new products with heightened performance and functionality, which puts pricing pressure on existing products and constantly threatens to make them, or causes them to be, obsolete. These trends are especially relevant for our LED lamp products, which have experienced, and are expected to continue to experience very rapid technological improvement and cost declines compared with other current lamp technologies. Our typical product’s life cycle is relatively short, generating lower average selling prices as the 15Table of Contentscycle matures. If we fail to accurately anticipate the introduction of new technologies, we may possess significant amounts of obsolete inventory that can only be sold at substantially lower prices and profit margins than we anticipated, which in turn may cause the stated value of our inventory to decline. In addition, if we fail to accurately anticipate the introduction of new technologies or are unable to develop the planned new technologies, we may be unable to compete effectively due to our failure to offer products most demanded by the marketplace. If any of these failures occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. If we experience disruptions in our manufacturing operations or are unable to increase production capacity for our products in a cost effective and timely manner or manage our operations and supply chain, we may incur delays in shipment and our sales and reputation in the marketplace could be harmed. Our manufacturing operations for our products are based in Zhenjiang, China, Huaian, China, Yangzhou, China and Shanghai, China. There is substantial competition in China for qualified and capable personnel, particularly experienced engineers and technical personnel, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees at our China facilities. Any labor shortages, strikes and other disturbances may adversely affect our profitability as well as our reported net income and may also result in negative publicity and reputational harm. No assurance can be given that we will not experience labor disturbances related to working conditions, wages or other reasons. An important part of our business plan is the expansion of production capacity for our products. In order to fulfill anticipated demand for our products, we invest in capacity in advance of actual customer orders, typically based on preliminary, non-binding indications of future demand. Uncertainty is inherent within our facility and capacity expansion, and unforeseen circumstances could offset the anticipated benefits, disrupt our ability to provide products to our customers and impact product quality. Our ability to provide products to our customers in a cost effective and timely manner depends on a number of factors, including the following: •our ability to effectively increase the automation of the manufacturing processes for our LED and CFL product lines; •our ability to transition production among manufacturing facilities; •our ability to properly and quickly anticipate customer preferences among lighting products; •our ability to repurpose equipment from the production of one product to another; •the availability of critical components and raw materials used in the manufacture of our products; •the reliability of our inventory management systems and supply chain visibility tools; and•our ability to effectively establish and use adequate management information systems, financial controls and quality control procedures; Any interruption in our ability to manufacture or distribute our products in a cost effective and timely manner while maintaining adequate quality, we may incur delays in shipment or be unable to meet increased demand for our products, which could harm our sales and operating margins and damage our reputation and our relationships with current and prospective customers. Our lighting products are generally required to be certified in accordance with industry standards and otherwise are required to be in compliance with applicable law. Failure to obtain such certification or be in compliance will result in a material adverse effect on our product sales and business.We are required to comply with certain legal requirements governing the materials used in our products and we submit to voluntary registration for the certification of the majority of our products. Certifications and compliance standards that we follow include UL, an independent organization that provides a UL mark on products that have passed testing and safety certification, and the efficiency requirements of ENERGY STAR®. Any amendments to existing requirements, or new requirements with which we cannot comply, may materially harm our sales. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain any such certifications for our new products or that, if certification standards are amended, we will be able to maintain certifications for our existing products. The failure to obtain such certifications or compliance may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.In response to recent allegations (see Item 3, "Legal Proceedings"), we are conducting additional levels of quality control on all of our products that carry the UL mark. We have completed testing on substantially all of our fastest moving SKUs. For the remaining SKUs, we expect to complete validation shortly. In addition, we affirmed that UL certified designs 16Table of Contentsare available for all of our products and that all of our products being shipped are UL certified. We engaged an outside testing firm to support these efforts, which, while ongoing, have affirmed the strength, quality and safety of our product line. If the product validation review reveals defects or failures to certify of the Company's products, it could have a material adverse effect on the sales of the Company's products and its reputation.From time to time, we receive inquires from the Consumer Products Safety Commission ("CPSC") regarding alleged product safety defects. If the CPSC brings an action based on any such inquiry, the Company may be subject to fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, including with respect to sales of our products and our reputation. The reduction or elimination of policies, legislation or incentives to adopt energy efficient lighting solutions over traditional lighting technologies could cause the growing demand for our products to slow, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Effective legislation in many countries that mandates energy efficiency standards for lamps represents an important driver to the growth in adoption of the energy efficient lamp technologies that we offer. The upfront cost to consumers of LEDs, CFLs and other forms of lighting solutions exceeds the upfront cost for some traditional lighting technologies that provide similar lumen output in many applications. Some governments around the world, including the United States, China, the European Union, and Canada, have used policy initiatives and other regulations, including financial incentives and rebates to consumers from which we benefit, to accelerate the development and adoption of LEDs, CFLs and other forms of lighting solutions and other non-traditional lighting technologies that are seen as more environmentally friendly compared with some traditional lighting technologies. The repeal or amendments to current laws or regulations banning inefficient lamp technologies, or reductions in or the elimination of government investment and incentives, in the United States and Canada, EMEA, Asia or Latin America could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, if our products fail to qualify for any financial incentives or rebates or if restrictions by regulation of competitive products are removed, demand for our products may decrease, and our sales and profits may decrease. We depend on certain key suppliers for materials and components that we require for our lighting products, and an increase in the cost of or disruption in the availability of raw materials or key components could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations are directly affected by the cost of our raw materials, which could be affected by, among other things, general shortages in the marketplace and high price volatility. Our principal raw materials and components are phosphor, LED chips, plastic and aluminum. As a result of the significant portion of our cost of goods sold represented by these raw materials, our gross profit and margins could be adversely affected by changes in the cost of these raw materials if we are unable to pass the increases on to our customers. In recent years, the price of phosphor has experienced extreme volatility due to changes in the global supply of rare earth elements, the main raw material inputs for phosphor, particularly in China. More than 95% of the world’s current supply of rare earth elements comes from China, which has enacted a policy to reduce its exports because of its rising domestic demand and new environmental restrictions. Given the volatility in the cost of phosphorous elements, there can be no assurance that prices will not increase in the future, potentially at significant rates. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for these and other raw materials. We do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and few alternative sources exist. Our third-party suppliers may encounter problems obtaining materials required during their manufacturing processes due to a variety of reasons, any of which could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand for components. Our reliance on third-party suppliers also subjects us to additional risks that could harm our business, including, among others: •we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of our components in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; •our suppliers may be accused of infringing the intellectual property of third parties which, if upheld, could alter or inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements; and •our suppliers may encounter financial or other hardships unrelated to our demand, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements. Finding a suitable alternate supply of required raw materials and components that meet our specifications and obtaining them in needed quantities may be a time-consuming process, and we may not be able to find an adequate alternative source of supply at an acceptable cost. Any significant interruption in the supply of these raw materials or components could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17Table of ContentsOur multi-national sales, manufacturing and operations subjects us to risks associated with operating in global markets. We are a global business. For 2014, 2013, and 2012, 14.9%, 17.6% and 11.6%, respectively, of our net sales were outside of the United States and Canada. We are incorporated in Switzerland. Our manufacturing facilities are located in China. We also maintain offices in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Brazil, France, Germany and Japan. Global business operations are subject to inherent risks, including, among others: •failure to obtain or maintain certifications for our products in these markets; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers or restrictions; •longer accounts receivable payment cycles and the difficulty of enforcing contracts and collecting receivables through certain non-U.S. legal systems; •difficulties in managing and staffing operations; •potentially adverse tax consequences; •the burdens of compliance with the laws and regulations of a number of jurisdictions; •import and export license requirements and restrictions of China, the United States and each other country in which we operate; •failure to develop products that work under the various voltage standards that can differ from region to region; •exposure to different legal standards and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;•failure to develop appropriate risk management and internal control structures tailored to overseas operations; •currency fluctuations and restrictions; •political, social and economic instability, including war and the threat of war, acts of terrorism, pandemics, boycotts, curtailment of trade or other business restrictions; •periodic economic downturns in the markets in which we operate; and •customs clearance and transportation delays;Any of these factors may adversely affect our future sales outside the United States and consequently our business financial conditions and results of operations.Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly impact our results of operations and may significantly affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. Our operations are conducted by subsidiaries in various countries. The results of operations and the financial position of these subsidiaries are reported in the relevant foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. The main currencies to which we are exposed are the Chinese yuan, Swiss franc, British pound sterling, Euro, and Brazilian real. The exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. A depreciation of these currencies against the U.S. dollar will decrease the U.S. dollar equivalent of the amounts derived from these operations reported in our consolidated financial statements and an appreciation of these currencies will result in a corresponding increase in such amounts. To the extent that we are required to pay for goods or services in foreign currencies, the appreciation of such currencies against the U.S. dollar will tend to negatively impact our results of operations. The steady appreciation of the Chinese currency versus the U.S. dollar over the past four years has increased the relative cost of our manufacturing to the extent we have used U.S. dollars or other currencies generated from our sales outside of China to purchase goods and services in China. In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the comparability of our results of operations between financial periods. We do not hedge our currency exposure and, therefore, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or sale transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction risks or that any volatility in currency exchange rates will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 18Table of ContentsWe are the subject of ongoing litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.The Company is presently subject to litigation, including securities class action litigation described under the heading “Legal Proceedings” in this report. We cannot reasonably estimate the timing or outcome of the litigation, nor can we predict whether the litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business. The litigation may cause us to incur significant legal expense, both directly and as the result of any indemnification obligations. It may also divert management’s attention from our ordinary business operations or may limit our ability to obtain financing to fund our ongoing operating requirements, which could harm our business. Adverse findings by a court of law on this or related litigation, or the incurrence of costs and fees that are not reimbursed under our insurance policies, could also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and reputation. We may be exposed to fines, penalties or other sanctions if we do not comply with laws and regulations designed to combat government corruption in countries in which we sell our products, and any determination that we violated such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in some countries that have experienced significant levels of governmental corruption. Our employees, agents and contractors may take actions in violation of our policies and applicable laws and regulations that generally prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or the FCPA. Such violations, if they occur, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and reputation. Any failure by us to ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and other applicable laws and regulations in non-U.S. jurisdictions could result in substantial civil and criminal penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct business in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our products may contain defects or otherwise not perform as expected, which could reduce sales, result in costs associated with warranty or product liability claims or recall of those items, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The manufacturing of our products involves complex processes and defects have been, and could be, found in our existing or future products. These defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and replacement costs, and costs associated with a recall may divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers and our reputation in the marketplace. We generally provide limited warranties ranging from one to nine years on our products, and such warranties may require us to repair, replace or reimburse the end user for the purchase price of the product. Moreover, even if our products meet standard specifications, end users may attempt to use our products in applications they were not designed for or in products that were not designed or manufactured properly, resulting in product failures and creating customer dissatisfaction. Since the majority of our products use electricity, and our CFL lamps contain a small amount of mercury, it is possible that our products could result in injury or increased health risks, including the health risks associated with exposure to ultraviolet light generated by mercury vapors, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. Particularly because our products often incorporate new technologies or designs, we cannot predict whether or not product liability claims will be brought against us. We may not have adequate resources in the event of a successful claim against us or a recall of a product. A successful product liability claim against us or a significant recall of a product that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our available insurance limits could require us to make significant payments of damages and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These problems could result in, among other things, a delay in the recognition or loss of sales, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. A significant product recall or product liability litigation could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence in our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The marketing and distribution efforts of our third-party distributors may not be effective, which could negatively affect our ability to expand our business, particularly in the C&I channel. We market and sell some of our products to third-party distributors in all of our sales regions, especially in the United States. We rely on these distributors to service end users, and our failure to maintain strong working relationships with such distributors could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and damage our brand reputation, particularly in the C&I channel. For 2014, 2013 and 2012, sales to our C&I customers were $209.8 million, $165.8 million and $152.5 million, respectively, or 42.9%, 38.7% and 42.4% of our net sales, respectively. We do not control the activities of our distributors with respect to the marketing and sales of and customer service support for our products. Therefore, the reputation and performance of our distributors, the willingness of our distributors to sell our products and their ability to expand their businesses are essential to the future growth of our sales in the C&I channel and has a direct and material impact on our sales and profitability. Also, as with our retail customers, we do not have long-term 19Table of Contentspurchase commitments from our distributor customers, and they can therefore generally cancel, modify or reduce orders with little or no notice to us. As a result, any reductions or delays in, or cancellations of, orders from any of our distributors may have a negative impact on our sales and budgeting process. Moreover, we may not be able to compete successfully against those of our competitors that have greater financial resources and are able to provide better incentives to distributors, which may result in reduced sales of our products or the loss of our distributors. The loss of any key distributor may force us to seek replacement distributors, and any resulting delay may be disruptive and costly. Our business may be adversely affected by uncertainties in the global financial markets.A lack of credit availability from the credit markets could adversely impact our customers’ demand for our products, their ability to pay their accounts receivable with us, and/or their viability. Further, the reduced profitability and cash generation that would be triggered by a weakening of economic conditions could hamper our ability to refinance our short-term debt obligations in China and limit the amounts we can borrow under our revolving line of credit agreement in the United States and Canada. In addition, a change in government policies in China could also impact the amount of credit available in the market. We had $61.2 million in short-term debt obligations outstanding at December 31, 2014 in China, all with maturities of one year or less. There can be no assurance that we would be able to continue to roll over our existing Chinese debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which would adversely affect our liquidity. The cost of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and any related environmental liabilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use of chemicals, emissions to air, discharges to water, the remediation of contaminated properties and the generation, handling, collection, recycling, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of and exposure to, waste and other materials, as well as laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety and the content and manufacturing of our products. These laws and regulations are subject to change and becoming increasingly more stringent, and also vary depending on the jurisdictions in which our products are manufactured, transported, marketed and placed. We own our manufacturing and distribution facilities located in China. We purchased the land use rights for these properties from the Chinese government beginning in 2001. If environmental contamination is discovered at any of our facilities and we are required to remediate the property, our recourse against the prior owners may be limited. The costs to comply with these laws or regulations can be substantial and any violation thereof can lead to substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the SEC’s new rules regarding the use and disclosure of “conflict minerals,” which we expect will increase our operating and compliance costs. Our products may contain conflict minerals, which could harm our reputation and cause sales of our products to decline. The SEC adopted its final rule implementing Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act concerning conflict minerals in August 2012. This rule requires us to: (1) determine whether conflict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold or similar derivatives) are used in our products and, if so, determine if the minerals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) or its immediately adjoining countries; and (2) if so, to conduct due diligence regarding the source and chain of custody of these conflict minerals to determine whether the conflict minerals financed or benefitted armed groups. The rule will require us to submit forms and reports to the SEC by 2016 and annually thereafter that disclose our determinations and due diligence measures. We are currently conducting conflict minerals due diligence and are working toward the required deadline. Presently, we have not determined how many or if any of our supply chain partners use conflict minerals or how much expense our due diligence exercise will add to our operational cost. If we do not properly assess supply chain partners and appropriately control costs and budget for conflict minerals compliance, our results of operations and profitability in the future could suffer. In addition, if our products contain conflict minerals, sales of our products could suffer due to adverse public reaction, resulting in a decline in revenue and profitability. 20Table of ContentsIf our information technology systems fail, or if we experience an interruption in their operation or we are unable to protect them against cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology systems. We rely on those systems generally to manage the day-to-day operation of our business, manage relationships with our customers, maintain our research and development data, and maintain our financial and accounting records. The failure of our information technology systems, our inability to successfully maintain and enhance our information technology systems or any compromise of the integrity or security of the data we generate from our information technology systems could adversely affect our results of operations, disrupt our business and product development and make us unable or severely limit our ability to respond to customer demands. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: •earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; •employee or other theft; •attacks by computer viruses or hackers; •power outages; •cyber-based attacks or network security breaches; and •computer systems, internet, telecommunications or data network failure. Any interruption of our information technology systems, including security breaches, could result in decreased sales, increased expenses, increased capital expenditures, negative publicity, customer dissatisfaction and potential lawsuits or liability claims, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There may be circumstances in which the interests of our major shareholders could be in conflict with your interests as a shareholder. Ellis Yan and Cherry Plus Limited, a company controlled by Solomon Yan, beneficially own 41.2% and 24.3% of our common shares, respectively. As a result of this ownership, Ellis Yan and Solomon Yan have a controlling influence on our affairs and their voting power constitutes a quorum of our shareholders voting on any matter requiring the approval of our shareholders. Such matters include the nomination and election of directors, the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock or payment of dividends, the adoption of amendments to our articles of association and organizational regulations and approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. In addition, Ellis Yan, Cherry Plus Limited and the Lillian Yan Irrevocable Stock Trust, our principal shareholders, have entered into a shareholders’ agreement that provides for, among other things, these shareholders to vote their common shares in favor of Ellis Yan, Solomon Yan and any other director nominees approved by Ellis Yan. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common shares by, among other things: •delaying, defending, or preventing a change of control, even at a per share price that is in excess of the then current price of our common shares; •impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving us, even at a per share price that is in excess of the then current price of our common shares; or •discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, even at a per share price that is in excess of the then current price of our common shares. Ellis Yan and Solomon Yan may also cause corporate actions to be taken that conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements.In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2014, we concluded there is a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting related to deficiencies in our control environment. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements 21Table of Contentswill not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis. See "Controls and Procedures" included in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.We have begun to implement a plan to take measures to remediate the underlying causes of the material weakness, primarily through changes to the overall design of our internal control environment including the resignation of our Chief Executive Officer on June 30, 2015, and a review and reorganization of our organizational structure and the roles and responsibilities within each functional group. Although we plan to complete this remediation process during 2015, we cannot at this time estimate how long it will take, and our initiatives may not prove to be successful in remediating the material weakness. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. In addition, if we are unable to successfully remediate the material weakness and if we are unable to produce accurate and timely financial statements, our stock price may be adversely affected and we may be unable to maintain compliance with applicable stock exchange listing requirements.We currently are not required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and are therefore not currently required to make an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. However, we will need to evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for the year ending December 31, 2015. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. We are in the early phases of compiling the system and process documentation needed to comply with such requirements. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing processes, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, which may cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and may result in a restatement of our consolidated financial statements for prior periods. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common shares.Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues, including instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These limitations include the fact that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of human error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the wrongful and unauthorized actions of an individual or by collusion of two or more people. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions.Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain and adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed. We consider certain aspects of our technology and processes proprietary. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce the proprietary aspects of our technology, competitors may utilize our proprietary technology and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We currently attempt to protect our technology through a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and similar means. Despite our efforts, other parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our technologies. Our competitors may also be able to independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or design around our patents. In addition, the laws of some countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to protect our proprietary rights adequately in the United States or abroad. We own United States and non-U.S. patents and patent applications that relate to some of our products, systems, business methods and technologies. We offer no assurance about the degree of protection which existing or future patents may afford us. Likewise, we offer no assurance that our patent applications will result in issued patents, that our patents will be upheld if challenged, that competitors will not develop similar or superior business methods or products outside the protection of our patents, that competitors will not infringe on our patents or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise learn of our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we generally require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our business could be materially adversely affected. 22Table of ContentsAssertions by third parties of intellectual property infringement could result in significant costs and cause our operating results to suffer. The markets in which we compete or plan to compete are characterized by rapidly changing products and technologies and there is intense competition to establish intellectual property protection and proprietary rights related to these products and technologies. The markets for LED, CFL and halogen lamps, in particular, are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies, including us. We may be required to obtain licenses for such third-party intellectual property. If we need to license any third-party intellectual property or other technology, we could be required to pay royalties on certain of our products. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to obtain third-party intellectual property licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects. We have in the past received, and may receive, notices that claim we have infringed upon the intellectual property of others. Even if these claims are not valid, they could subject us to significant costs. We have engaged in litigation and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation may also be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity by others. An adverse outcome in litigation or any similar proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third-parties, require us to license disputed rights from others or require us to cease marketing, selling or using certain products or technologies. For instance, in 2013 we entered into a settlement and license agreement with Koninklijke Philips N.V. (Philips) relating to a lawsuit alleging infringement of certain LED lighting-related patents pursuant to which we agreed to make certain scheduled payments to Philips over time in exchange for a license to use certain of Philips’ LED patents until the earlier of their respective expirations or December 31, 2028. We are also a defendant in a patent infringement lawsuit brought against us by GE Lighting Solutions, LLC. See Note 14 in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may not be able to obtain licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. We also may have to indemnify certain customers if it is determined that we have infringed upon or misappropriated another party’s intellectual property. Any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of addressing any intellectual property litigation claim, both in legal fees and expenses, and the diversion of management resources, regardless of whether the claim is valid, could be significant and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. The laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same degree as the laws of the United States and there is a risk that our ability to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate in these countries. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights against copying or infringement in such countries, some of which are countries in which we intend to sell our products. In particular, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China is uncertain and evolving and could involve substantial risks to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights in China, our attempts to penetrate the Chinese market may be harmed. In addition, our competitors in China and these other countries may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our products, even if unauthorized, which could potentially reduce our sales in these countries and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure We are incorporated in Switzerland and Swiss law governs our corporate affairs. We are a corporation incorporated under the laws of Switzerland. Our place of incorporation is Cham, in the canton of Zug, Switzerland. The rights of holders of our common shares are governed by Swiss corporate law and by our articles of association. In particular, Swiss corporate law limits the ability of a shareholder to challenge resolutions or actions of our board of directors in court. Shareholders generally are not permitted to file a suit to reverse a decision or action by directors but are permitted to seek damages for breaches of fiduciary duty. Shareholder claims against a director for breach of fiduciary duty would, as a matter of Swiss law, have to be brought at our place of incorporation in Cham, Switzerland, or at the domicile of the involved director. Shareholders filing a suit in a Swiss court will be required to post a bond to cover court costs and, where the plaintiff is not domiciled in Switzerland or is insolvent, may also be required to include in the bond additional amounts for party indemnification. Under Swiss law the losing party pays court costs. The amounts of these bonds will depend upon the value in litigation and may be substantial, therefore preventing or discouraging a shareholder from bringing a suit against the 23Table of Contentscompany or the directors in Switzerland. In addition, under Swiss law, any claims by shareholders against us must be brought exclusively at our place of incorporation. Swiss law contains provisions that could prevent or delay an acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise. Swiss law contains provisions that could prevent or delay an acquisition of us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise. These provisions may also adversely affect prevailing market prices for the shares. These provisions, among other things: •provide that a merger or demerger transaction requires the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares represented at the meeting and the majority of the par value of the shares represented and, if the merger contract provides for the possibility of a so-called “cashout” or “squeeze-out” merger, the merger resolution requires the consent of at least 90% of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at the meeting; •provide that any action required or permitted to be taken by the holders of shares must be taken at a duly called annual or extraordinary general meeting of shareholders; and •limit the ability of our shareholders to amend or repeal some provisions of our articles of association. Our status as a Swiss corporation means shareholders enjoy certain rights that may limit our flexibility to raise capital, issue dividends and otherwise manage ongoing capital needs. Swiss law requires our shareholders to authorize increases in our share capital, and such authorizations are of limited duration. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares. Prior to the consummation of our initial public offering, our shareholders waived their preemptive rights to shares they already owned, and our Board of Directors withdrew any preemptive rights for any shares in the initial public offering to which they would have otherwise been entitled. Swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares as do the laws of some other jurisdictions. Swiss law requires shareholder approval for many corporate actions over which a board of directors would have authority in some other jurisdictions. For example, dividends must be approved by shareholders. These Swiss law requirements relating to our capital management may limit our flexibility, and situations may arise where greater flexibility would have provided benefits to our shareholders. We are a Swiss company and it may be difficult for you to obtain or enforce judgments against us or our senior management and directors in the United States. We are organized under the laws of Switzerland. Our place of incorporation is Cham in the canton of Zug, Switzerland. Most of our assets are located outside the United States. Furthermore, a number of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States and a portion of their assets are located outside the United States. Ellis Yan, our Chief Executive Officer, resides in the United States while Solomon Yan, our President, resides in China. As a result, investors may find it difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce outside the United States judgments obtained against us or these persons in U.S. courts, including judgments in actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Likewise, it may also be difficult for an investor to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained against us or these persons in courts located in jurisdictions outside the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. It may also be difficult for an investor to bring an original action in a Swiss court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or these persons. Our organizational regulations provide that directors and officers, past and present, are entitled to indemnification from us arising in connection with the performance of their duties and permit us to advance the expenses of defending any act, suit or proceeding to our directors and officers. Although there is doubt as to whether U.S. courts would enforce such a provision in an action brought in the United States under U.S. securities laws, such provision could make enforcing judgments obtained outside Switzerland more difficult to enforce against our assets in Switzerland or in jurisdictions that would apply Swiss law. 24Table of ContentsRisks Related to Doing Business in China Changes in China’s economic, political and social conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct our manufacturing operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are significantly dependent on the economic, political and social conditions in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of developed countries in many respects, including the degree of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control over foreign exchange, access to financing and allocation of resources. While China’s economy has experienced significant growth over the past 30 years, the growth has been uneven across different regions and periods and among various economic sectors in China. Moreover, sustained economic growth in China over the past few years has resulted in a general increase in labor costs, and the inflationary environment that has led to employee discontent, which could result in materially higher compensation costs being paid to employees. We cannot assure you that the ongoing evolution of economic, political and social conditions in China would not lead to events which may materially reduce our sales and profitability. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Nonetheless, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China continues to be owned by the Chinese government. The Chinese government’s control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy could materially and adversely affect our business. The Chinese government exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, control over payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, implementation of monetary policy and provision of preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. In recent years, the Chinese government has implemented a number of measures, such as raising required bank reserves against deposit rates, which have placed additional limitations on the ability of commercial banks to make loans, and raising interest rates in order to decrease the growth rate of specific sectors of China’s economy that the government believed to be overheating. Such actions, as well as other Chinese policies, may materially and adversely affect our liquidity and access to capital as well as our ability to operate our business.The enforcement of the Labor Contract Law, the Social Insurance Law and other labor-related regulations in China may increase our costs and decrease our net income. China adopted the Labor Contract Law, effective January 1, 2008, and issued its implementation rules, effective September 18, 2008. The Labor Contract Law and related rules and regulations impose more stringent requirements on employers with regard to, among other things, minimum wages, severance payments, non-fixed term employment contracts, time limits for probation periods, as well as the duration and the times that an employee can be placed on a fixed term employment contract. Compliance with the Labor Contract Law and its rules and regulations has resulted in an increase in our operating expenses, particularly our labor costs, and we expect that continued compliance with the Labor Contract Law and its implementation rules and regulations will further increase our operating expenses. In the event that we decide to terminate some of our employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the Labor Contract Law and its implementation rules and regulations may limit our ability to effect those changes in a manner that we believe to be cost effective or desirable, could result in a decrease in our profitability and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are required by PRC laws and regulations to pay various statutory employee benefits, including pensions, housing fund, medical insurance, work-related injury insurance, unemployment insurance and maternity insurance to designated government agencies for the benefit of our employees. On October 28, 2010, China promulgated the China Social Insurance Law, which came into effect on July 1, 2011. Under the law, an employer that fails to pay a social insurance contribution in full and on time will be penalized at a rate of 0.05% of the outstanding payment per day starting from the date of default. On default of payment by the due date, an additional penalty may be charged between 100% to 300% of the late payment of the social insurance premiums. As a result, failure to make the statutorily required social insurance contribution will subject the Chinese subsidiaries to severe penalties or incur significant liabilities in connection with labor disputes or investigations, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We accrue expenses quarterly and have recognized a liability on our balance sheet relating to potential payments to be made under the China Social Insurance Law; our potential exposure under the China Social Insurance Law could be in excess of the amount that we have already recognized for this liability. Uncertainties presented by the Chinese legal system could limit the legal protections available to us and subject us to legal risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations in China are subject to applicable Chinese laws, rules and regulations. The Chinese legal system is a system based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have little value as precedents. Additionally, Chinese statutes are often principle-oriented and require detailed interpretations by the enforcement bodies to 25Table of Contentsfurther apply and enforce such laws. Since 1979, the Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system, and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because some of these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the Chinese legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules, some of which may not be published on a timely basis or at all, and some of which may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. Any administrative and court proceedings in China may be protracted, resulting in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Since Chinese administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to predict the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection in China than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into in China. As a result, these uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may elect to finance our operations in part from dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a holding company and we may elect to finance our operations in part from dividends from our subsidiaries in China for our cash requirements, including any debt we may incur. Current Chinese regulations permit our Chinese subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our subsidiaries in China is required to set aside at least 10% of its respective after-tax profits each year, if any, to a statutory reserve account until the accumulated amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. A PRC company is not permitted to distribute any profits until any losses from prior years have been offset. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our Chinese subsidiaries incur debt, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Our Chinese subsidiaries did not distribute any dividends in 2014, 2013 or 2012. Under the Chinese Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law and implementation regulation issued by State Council, a Chinese income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends paid by Chinese enterprises to “non-resident enterprises" (enterprises that do not have an establishment or place of business in China, or has such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business) subject to the application of any relevant income tax treaty that China has entered into. Any dividend that we or any subsidiary considered a “non-resident enterprise” receives from our China subsidiaries will be subject to Chinese taxation at the 10% rate (or lower treaty rate). As our policy generally is to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, we do not currently expect our Chinese subsidiaries to distribute dividends to TCP HK in the near future. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends or other payments to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Chinese regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose vehicle companies by Chinese residents may subject our Chinese subsidiaries to liability or penalties, limit our ability to inject capital into our Chinese subsidiaries, limit our Chinese subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE promulgated the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Offshore Investment and Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular 37, on July 4, 2014, which replaced the former circular commonly known as “SAFE Circular 75” promulgated by SAFE on October 21, 2005. SAFE Circular 37 (the “SAFE Notice”) requires PRC residents to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct establishment or indirect control of an offshore entity, for the purpose of overseas investment and financing, with such PRC residents’ legally owned assets or equity interests in domestic enterprises or offshore assets or interests, referred to in SAFE Circular 37 as a “special purpose vehicle.” SAFE Circular 37 further requires amendment to the registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to the special purpose vehicle, such as increase or decrease of capital contributed by PRC individuals, share transfer or exchange, merger, division or other material event. Under the SAFE Notice, failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth above could result in liability under Chinese law for foreign exchange evasion and may result in penalties and legal sanctions, including fines, the imposition of restrictions on a Chinese subsidiary’s foreign exchange activities and its ability to distribute dividends to the SPV, its ability to pay the SPV proceeds from any reduction in 26Table of Contentscapital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the Chinese subsidiary and the SPV’s ability to contribute additional capital into or provide loans to the Chinese subsidiary. One of our founders, Solomon Yan, is a Chinese citizen. In 2007 and 2008, he exchanged his ownership in entities that are now our subsidiaries in China for ownership in TCP HK. If Solomon Yan’s investment in the Chinese subsidiaries is deemed to be a round-trip investment pursuant to the SAFE Notice, Solomon Yan would be required to register with SAFE. Many of the terms and provisions in the SAFE Notice remain unclear and implementation by central SAFE and local SAFE branches of the SAFE Notice have been inconsistent since their adoption. Therefore, the corresponding local counterparts of SAFE in different areas may have different opinions on whether Solomon Yan’s investment in the Chinese subsidiaries through TCP HK is subject to the SAFE Notice. However, we cannot provide any assurances that if challenged by government agencies, the structure of our organization fully complies with all applicable registrations or approvals required by the SAFE Notice. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how the SAFE Notice will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. A failure by such PRC resident shareholder or future PRC resident shareholders to comply with the SAFE Notice or other related rules, if SAFE requires it, could restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. We do not have valid title certificates to use certain properties occupied by us in China, which may adversely affect our operations. Properties occupied by our China subsidiaries in China primarily consist of factory buildings, warehouses, ancillary buildings and offices. Any dispute or claim in relation to the title to the properties occupied by us, including any litigation involving allegations of illegal or unauthorized use of these properties, may result in us having to relocate our business operations and may materially and adversely affect our operations, financial condition, reputation and future growth. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Chinese government will not amend or revise existing property laws, rules or regulations to require additional approvals, licenses or permits, or to implement stricter requirements to obtain or maintain the title certificates required for the properties occupied by our China subsidiaries. We own certain buildings in China, with an aggregate gross floor area of approximately 450,000 square feet, for which we have not obtained title ownership certificates. As to the buildings without title certificates, among which: (i) approximately 30,000 square feet, accounting for approximately 1.6% of the aggregate gross floor area of our properties, are ancillary buildings which do not have a material effect on our operations; and (ii) buildings for which we have not obtained any construction approvals and certificates are approximately 420,000 square feet, accounting for approximately 19.7% of the aggregate gross floor area of our properties. We use these buildings for operations as manufacturing and warehouse facilities.The operations we conduct on these title defective properties may be adversely affected as a result of the absence of valid legal title. For example, we may be required to seek alternative premises for our business operations, which may lead to disruptions in our business operations. Risks Related to Taxation We are subject to income taxes in Switzerland, China, the United States and many other jurisdictions throughout the world. We are subject to a variety of tax laws throughout the world. While we believe we take reasonable positions on the tax returns filed throughout the world, some of these positions may be challenged during income tax audits in Switzerland, China, the United States and other jurisdictions. Consequently, significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions to determine our ultimate tax liability. Management records current tax liabilities based on U.S. GAAP, including the more-likely-than-not recognition and measurement standard and the assumption that all uncertain tax positions will be identified in the relevant examination. Our management believes that the estimates reflected in the consolidated financial statements accurately reflect our tax liabilities under these standards. However, our actual tax liabilities ultimately may differ from those estimates if we were to prevail in matters for which accruals have been established or if taxing authorities were to challenge successfully the tax treatment upon which our management has based its estimates. Income tax expense includes the impact of tax reserve positions and changes to tax reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as any related interest and penalties. We may become subject to unanticipated tax liabilities. We may be subject to income, withholding or other taxes in certain jurisdictions by reason of our activities and operations, and it is also possible that taxing authorities in any such jurisdictions could assert that we are subject to greater taxation than we currently anticipate. For example, it is possible that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) could assert that a portion of our income is effectively connected with our conduct of a trade or business in the United States and, if a treaty applies, attributable to a permanent establishment situated in the United States, which income would then be subject to U.S. 27Table of Contentsfederal income tax and potentially branch profits tax. If we become subject to a significant amount of unanticipated tax liabilities, our business could be adversely affected. We are a controlled foreign corporation, or CFC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be treated as a CFC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the 2014 tax year. Treatment as a CFC will result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for a U.S. Holder who directly or indirectly owns at least 10% of the total combined voting power of our voting stock.28Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None.29Table of Contents