Item 1A. Risk Factors.In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and our Company could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. You should carefully consider the risks described below and in our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the consolidated and combined financial statements and related notes in this report.Risks Relating to Our Business We sell our products and services in highly competitive markets, including the home automation market, which may result in pressure on our profit margins and limit our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products and services. We may not be able to continue to develop and execute a competitive yet profitable pricing structure.The monitored security industry is highly fragmented and subject to significant competition and pricing pressures. We experience significant competitive pricing pressures on installation, monitoring and service fees. Several significant competitors offer installation fees that match or are lower than ours. Other competitors charge significantly more for installation but, in many cases, less for monitoring. In addition, cable and telecommunications companies are expanding into the monitored security industry and are bundling their existing offerings with monitored security services. In some instances, it appears that the monitored security services component of such bundled offerings is significantly underpriced and, in effect, subsidized by the rates charged for the other services offered by these companies. These pricing alternatives may influence customers’ desire to subscribe to our services at rates and fees we consider appropriate. In many cases, we face competition for direct sales from our authorized dealers, who may offer installation for considerably less than we do in particular markets. We believe that the monitoring and service fees we offer are generally competitive with rates offered by other security service providers. We face competition from other providers such as cable and telecommunications companies that may have greater capital and resources than us, and may benefit from superior advertising, marketing and promotional resources which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to drive awareness and demand for our products and services. We also face potential competition from improvements in Do-It-Yourself (DIY) or self-monitoring systems which enable customers to monitor and control their environments without third-party involvement through the Internet, text messages, emails or similar communications, but with the disadvantage that alarm events may go unnoticed. It is possible that one or more of our competitors could develop a significant technological advantage over us that allows them to provide additional service or better quality service or to lower their price, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Continued pricing pressure or improvements in technology and shifts in customer preferences towards self-monitoring or DIY could adversely impact our customer base and/or pricing structure and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We resist competing on price alone because we believe we have competitive advantage such as brand name recognition and a reputation for a high level of service and security. However, with cable and telecommunications companies actively targeting the home automation market and expanding into the monitored security space, and with large technology companies expanding into the connected home market through the development of their own solutions or the acquisition of other companies with home automation solution offerings, this increased competition could result in pricing pressure, a shift in customer preferences towards the services of these companies and reduce our market share. Continued pricing pressure from these competitors or failure to achieve pricing based on the competitive advantages previously identified above could prevent us from maintaining competitive price points for our products and services resulting in lost customers or in our inability to attract new customers and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.10Table of ContentsOur future growth is dependent upon our ability to successfully compete with new and existing competitors by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. Our business operates in markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and potential new entrants. For example, a number of cable and other telecommunications companies and large technology companies with home automation solutions are offering interactive security services that are competitive with our products and services. If these services gain market acceptance and traction, our ability to grow our business, in particular our ADT Pulse® offering, could be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, our future success depends in part on our ability to accomplish the following: identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets; develop, acquire and maintain competitive products and services; enhance our products and services by adding innovative features that differentiate us from our competitors; and develop or acquire and bring products and services to market quickly and cost-effectively. Our ability to develop or acquire new products and services that are technologically innovative requires the investment of significant resources and can affect our competitive position. These acquisitions and development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new commercially successful technologies, products or services on a timely basis. Moreover, as we introduce new products and services, we may be unable to detect and correct defects in the product or in its installation, which could result in loss of sales or delays in market acceptance. New or enhanced products and services may not satisfy consumer preferences and potential product failures may cause consumers to reject our products. As a result, these products and services may not achieve market acceptance and our brand image could suffer. In addition, our competitors may introduce superior designs or business strategies, impairing our brand, our ability to charge a monthly service fee for our products or services and the desirability of our products and services, which may cause consumers to defer or forego purchases of our products and services. In addition, the markets for our products and services may not develop or grow as we anticipate. The failure of our technology, products or services to gain market acceptance, the potential for product defects or the obsolescence of our products and services could significantly reduce our revenue, increase our operating costs or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.In addition to developing and acquiring new technologies and introducing new offerings, we may need, from time to time, to phase out outdated and unsuitable technologies and services. If we are unable to do so on a cost-effective basis, we could experience reduced profits.Expiration of non-competition agreements, including non-solicit restrictions, could allow the entry of potential competitors with deep knowledge of our business.In connection with our Separation from Tyco in 2012, we entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement with Tyco, which included (i) non-compete provisions pursuant to which Tyco was prohibited from competing with us in the residential and small business security markets in the United States and Canada, and (ii) non-solicitation provisions which prevented Tyco from soliciting our residential and small business customers in the United States and Canada. These provisions expired on September 29, 2014. Following the expiration of these restrictions, Tyco is free to compete with us in the residential and small business security markets in these jurisdictions.We rely on a significant number of our customers remaining with us as customers for long periods of time. We operate our business with the goal of retaining customers for long periods of time in order to recoup our initial investment in new customers, and we generally achieve cash flow break-even in approximately three years. Accordingly, our long-term profitability is dependent on long customer tenure. This requires that we minimize our rate of customer disconnects, or attrition. The primary reason for disconnects is when customers relocate and do not reconnect. Customer relocations are impacted by changes in the housing market. See risk factor "We are susceptible to downturns in the housing market and consumer discretionary income, which may inhibit our ability to sustain customer base growth rates." Some other factors that can increase disconnects include problems experienced with our product or service quality, unfavorable general economic conditions, and the preference for lower pricing of competitors' products and services over ours. If we fail to keep our customers for a sufficiently long period of time, our profitability, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. If we experience significantly higher rates of customer attrition, we may be required to change the estimated useful lives of assets related to our security monitoring customers, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense or impairing such assets. We amortize the costs of our acquired and dealer-generated contracts and related customer relationships based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. We similarly depreciate the cost of our internally generated residential and business monitoring system assets. If attrition rates were to rise significantly, we may be required to accelerate the amortization of expenses related to such contracts and the depreciation of our subscriber system assets or to impair such assets, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11Table of ContentsWe are susceptible to changes in the housing market and consumer discretionary income, which may inhibit our ability to sustain customer base growth rates. Demand for alarm monitoring services is affected by the turnover in the housing market. Downturns in the rate of the sale of new and existing homes, which we believe drives a substantial portion of our new customer volume in any given year, would reduce opportunities to make sales of new security and home automation systems and services and reduce opportunities to take over existing security and home automation systems. Recoveries in the housing market increase the occurrence of relocations which may lead to customers disconnecting service and not contracting with us in their new homes. In addition, because of personal economic circumstances, current security alarm and home automation customers may decide to disconnect our services in an effort to reduce their monthly spending and may default on their remaining contractual obligations to us. Our long-term revenue growth rate depends on installations exceeding disconnects. If customer disconnects and defaults increase, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. See risk factor "We rely on a significant number of our customers remaining with us as customers for long periods of time."Shifts in our customers’ choice of, or telecommunications providers' support for, telecommunications services and equipment could adversely impact our business and require significant capital expenditures. Certain elements of our operating model have historically relied on our customers’ continued selection and use of traditional land-line telecommunications to transmit alarm signals to our monitoring centers. There is a growing trend for customers to switch to the exclusive use of cellular, satellite or Internet communication technology in their homes and businesses, and telecommunication providers may discontinue their land-line services in the future. In addition, many of our customers who use cellular communication technology for their security and home/business automation systems use our products that rely on 2G cellular technology, and certain telecommunication providers have advised us that they will discontinue their 2G services in the future. Some older installed security systems use technology that is not compatible with the newer cellular, satellite or Internet communication technology, such as 3G and 4G networks, and will not be able to transmit alarm signals on these networks. The discontinuation of land-line, 2G cellular and any other services by telecommunications providers, and the switch by customers to the exclusive use of cellular, satellite or Internet communication technology may require system upgrades to alternative, and potentially more expensive, technologies to transmit alarm signals and for systems to function properly. This could increase our customer attrition rates and slow new customer generation. In order to maintain our customer base that uses security and home/business automation system components that are or could become obsolete, we implemented a three-year conversion program in fiscal 2013 to replace 2G cellular technology used in many of our security systems at no additional cost to our customers, and began incurring costs under this program in fiscal 2014. We may be required to upgrade or implement other new technologies, including offering to subsidize the replacement of customers’ outdated systems, at our expense. Any technology upgrades or implementations could require significant capital expenditures and also divert management’s attention and other important resources away from our customer service and sales efforts. In the future, we may not be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt existing technologies to changing market demands. If we are unable to adapt timely to changing technologies, market conditions or customer preferences, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we use broadband Internet access service, including video streaming services, to support our product offerings, and we may choose to implement broadband Internet access in our intrusion panels as a communications option for our services. Video streaming services use significantly more bandwidth than non-video Internet activity. As utilization rates and availability of these services increases, our high-speed customers may use more bandwidth than in the past. If this occurs, we could be required to make significant capital expenditures to increase network capacity in order to avoid service disruptions or reduced capacity for customers. See risk factor “Our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to successfully compete with new and existing competitors by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins.”Failure to maintain the security of our information and technology networks, including personally identifiable and other information could adversely affect us. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems, including Internet and Internet-based or "cloud" computing services, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In the normal course of our business, we or our partners collect and retain significant volumes of certain types of personally identifiable and other information pertaining to our customers and employees, including video images of customer sites. 12Table of ContentsThe legal, regulatory and contractual environment surrounding information security and privacy is constantly evolving and companies that collect and retain sensitive and confidential information are under increasing attack by cyber-criminals around the world. While we take security measures relating to our operations and systems, those measures may not prevent security breaches (including cyber security breaches), acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced data or data loss that could be detrimental to our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Third parties, including our partners and vendors, could also be a source of security risk to us in the event of a failure of their own security systems and infrastructure. In addition, we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access our products and services. A significant actual or perceived (whether or not valid) theft, loss, fraudulent use or misuse of customer, employee or other personally identifiable data, whether by us, our partners and vendors, or other third parties or as a result of employee error or malfeasance or otherwise, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such data or a violation of our privacy and security policies with respect to such data could result in significant costs, fines, litigation or regulatory actions against us. Such an event could additionally result in unfavorable publicity and therefore adversely affect the market’s perception of the security and reliability of our services, and our credibility and reputation with our customers, which may lead to customer dissatisfaction and could result in lost sales and increased customer attrition. In addition, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce. Security breaches of, or sustained attacks against, this infrastructure could create system disruptions and shutdowns that could result in disruptions to our operations. Increasingly, our security and home/business automation products and services are accessed through the Internet, and security breaches in connection with the delivery of our services via the Internet may affect us and could be detrimental to our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. We continue to invest in technology and other solutions to protect our network and information systems, however, there can be no assurance that these investments and solutions will prevent any of the risks described above. If any one of the foregoing risks materializes, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.While we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third party liability and first party insurance coverages, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect against all of our losses from any future breaches of our systems.An event causing a disruption in the ability of our monitoring facilities to operate could adversely affect our business. A disruption in our ability to provide security monitoring services and serve our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. A disruption could occur for many reasons, including fire, natural disasters, weather, disease, transportation interruption, extended power outages, human or other error, terrorism or sabotage or as a result of disruptions to third-party transmission lines. Monitoring could also be disrupted by information systems and network-related events or cyber security attacks, such as computer hacking, computer viruses, worms or other malicious software, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering or other destructive or disruptive activities that could also cause damage to our properties, equipment and data. While our monitoring systems are fully redundant, a failure of our back-up procedures or a disruption affecting multiple monitoring facilities could disrupt our ability to provide monitoring services. If we experience such disruptions, we may experience customer dissatisfaction and potential loss of confidence, and liabilities to customers or other third parties, each of which could harm our reputation and impact future revenues from these customers. The market price of our stock has been and may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline.The market price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly. The market price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control:•our operating results or forecasts;•variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community;•competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services;•recent securities class actions and other litigation against us;•market volatility in general;•changes in regulatory policy or interpretation;•changes in the ratings of our debt or stock by rating agencies or securities analysts; or•announcements of developments affecting our business.As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price.13Table of ContentsWe are subject to securities class actions which may harm our business and results of operations.We are subject to securities class actions. Following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation as described in Item 3 "Legal Proceedings." We may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. This type of litigation may be lengthy, and may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Results cannot be predicted with certainty and an adverse outcome in such litigation could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.Our business strategy includes making acquisitions and investments that complement our existing business. These acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results.We will continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of, or investment in strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position or enhance our existing set of products and service offerings. We cannot assure you that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future. Nor can we assure you that completed acquisitions will be successful.Acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including:•diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; •difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business or achieving anticipated operations efficiencies or cost savings;•possibility of litigation or other claims in connection with, or as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties;•inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms;•potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of acquired companies or of us;•assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and•dilution of interests of holders of shares of our common stock through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities.It may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. Any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as such acquisitions or investments may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges.We may pursue business opportunities that diverge from our current business model, which may adversely affect our business results.We may pursue business opportunities that diverge from our current business model, including expanding our products or service offerings, investing in new and unproven technologies, adding customer acquisition channels and forming new alliances with companies to market our services. We can offer no assurance that any such business opportunities will prove to be successful. Among other negative effects, our pursuit of such business opportunities could cause our cost of investment in new customers to grow at a faster rate than our recurring revenue and fees collected at the time of installation. Additionally, any new alliances or customer acquisition channels could require developmental investments or have higher cost structures than our current arrangements, which could reduce operating margins and require more working capital. In the event that working capital requirements exceed operating cash flow, we might be required to draw on our revolving credit facility or pursue other external financing, which may not be readily available. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.14Table of ContentsOur customer generation strategies through our authorized dealer and affinity marketing programs and the competitive market for customer accounts may affect our future profitability. A principal element of our business strategy is the generation of new customer accounts through our authorized dealer program, which accounted for approximately 40% of our new customer accounts for our 2014 fiscal year. Our future operating results will depend in large part on our ability to continue to manage this business generation strategy effectively. Although we currently generate accounts through hundreds of authorized dealers, a significant portion of our accounts originate from a smaller number of authorized dealers. In particular, during fiscal year 2014, one of our authorized dealers signed a 5-year renewal agreement with us and accounted for approximately 18% of all our new accounts. We experience loss of authorized dealers from our authorized dealer program due to various factors, such as authorized dealers becoming inactive or discontinuing their electronic security business, non-renewal of our dealer contracts and competition from other alarm monitoring companies. If we experience a loss of authorized dealers representing a significant portion of our customer account generation from our authorized dealer program or if we are unable to replace or recruit authorized dealers or alternate distribution channel partners in accordance with our business strategy, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.In addition, successful promotion of our brand depends on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to offer member discounts and special offers for our products and services. We have actively pursued affinity marketing programs, which provide members of participating organizations with discounts on our products and services. The organizations with which we have affinity marketing programs closely monitor their relationships with us, as well as their members’ satisfaction with our products and services. These organizations may require us to pay higher fees to them, decrease our pricing for their members, introduce additional competitive options or otherwise alter the terms of our participation in their marketing programs in ways that are unfavorable to us. These organizations may also terminate their relationships with us if we fail to meet member satisfaction standards. If any of our important affinity or marketing relationships, such as our relationships with USAA or AARP, were terminated or altered in an unfavorable manner, we would lose a significant source of sales leads and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.We face risks in acquiring and integrating customer accounts.An element of our business strategy may involve the bulk acquisition of customer accounts. Acquisitions of customer accounts involve a number of special risks, including the possibility of unexpectedly high rates of attrition and unanticipated deficiencies in the accounts and systems acquired despite our investigations prior to acquisition. We face competition from other alarm monitoring companies, including companies that may offer higher prices and more favorable terms for customer accounts purchased, lower minimum financial qualifications requirements for purchased accounts or lower prices for monitoring services provided. This competition could reduce the acquisition opportunities available to us, slowing our rate of growth and/or increase the price we pay for such account acquisitions, thus reducing our return on investment and negatively impacting our revenue and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to purchase customer accounts on favorable terms in the future.The purchase price we pay for customer accounts is affected by the recurring revenue historically generated by such accounts, as well as several other factors, including the level of competition, our prior experience with accounts purchased in bulk from specific sellers, the geographic location of accounts, the number of accounts purchased, the customers’ credit scores and the type of security or home/business automation equipment or platform used by the customers. In purchasing accounts, we have relied on management’s knowledge of the industry, due diligence procedures and representations and warranties of bulk account sellers. We cannot assure you that in all instances the representations and warranties made by bulk account sellers are true and complete or, if the representations and warranties are inaccurate, that we will be able to recover damages from bulk account sellers in an amount sufficient to fully compensate us for any resulting losses. If any of these risks materializes, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.Our authorized dealers may not be able to mitigate certain risks such as information technology breaches, data security breaches, product liability, errors and omissions and marketing compliance.We generate a portion of our new customers through our authorized dealer network. We rely on our authorized dealers to implement mitigation plans for certain risks they may experience such as, including but not limited to, information technology breaches, data security breaches, product liability, errors and omissions and marketing compliance. If our authorized dealers experiences any of these risks, or fail to implement mitigation plans for their risks, or if such implemented mitigation plans fail, we may be susceptible to risks associated with our authorized dealers on which we rely to generate customers. Any interruption in the generation of customer accounts or services provided by our authorized dealers could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.15Table of ContentsIncreasing government regulation of telemarketing, email marketing and other marketing methods may increase our costs and restrict the operation and growth of our business.We rely on telemarketing and email marketing conducted internally and through third parties to generate a substantial number of leads for our business. The telemarketing and email marketing services industries are subject to an increasing amount of regulation in the United States and Canada. In the United States, the FTC and FCC have issued regulations that place restrictions on unsolicited automated telephone calls to residential and wireless telephone subscribers by means of automatic telephone dialing systems, prerecorded or artificial voice messages and telephone fax machines, and require us to maintain a "do not call" list and to train our personnel to comply with these restrictions. The FTC regulates both general sales practices and telemarketing specifically and has broad authority to prohibit a variety of advertising or marketing practices that may constitute "unfair or deceptive acts or practices." Most of the statutes and regulations in the United States allow a private right of action for the recovery of damages or provide for enforcement by the FTC and FCC, state attorneys general or state agencies permitting the recovery of significant civil or criminal penalties, costs and attorneys’ fees in the event that regulations are violated. The Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission ("CRTC") enforces rules regarding unsolicited communications using automatic dialing and announcing devices, live voice and fax. On July 1, 2014, the Canadian Anti-Spam Law ("CASL") regulations went into effect in Canada. The CRTC has enforcement authority under CASL. CASL prohibits the sending of commercial emails without prior consent of the consumer or an existing business relationship and sets forth rules governing the sending of commercial emails. CASL allows for a private right of action for the recovery of damages or provides for enforcement by CRTC permitting the recovery of significant civil penalties, costs and attorneys' fees in the event that regulations are violated. We are diligent in our efforts to comply with all such applicable regulations, but cannot assure you that we or third parties that we rely on for telemarketing, email marketing and other lead generation activities will be in compliance with all applicable regulations at all times. Although our contractual arrangements with such third parties expressly require them to comply with all such regulations and to indemnify us for their failure to do so, we cannot assure you that the FTC, FCC, private litigants or others will not attempt to hold us responsible for any unlawful acts conducted by such third parties or that we could successfully enforce or collect upon such indemnities. Additionally, changes in such regulations or the interpretation thereof that further restrict such activities could result in a material reduction in the number of leads for our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Unauthorized use of our brand name by third parties, and the expenses incurred in developing and preserving the value of our brand name, may adversely affect our business. Our brand name is critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our brand name by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation, including the perceived quality and reliability of our products and services. We rely on trademark law, company brand name protection policies and agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect the value of our brand name. Despite our precautions, we cannot provide assurance that those procedures are sufficiently effective to protect against unauthorized third-party use of our brand name. In particular, in recent years various third parties have used the ADT® brand name to engage in fraudulent activities, including inducing customers to switch to competing monitoring service providers, generating leads for competitors and obtaining personal financial information. Third parties sometimes use ADT’s name and trademarks, or other confusingly similar variance thereof, in other contexts that may impact our brand. We may not be successful in investigating, preventing or prosecuting all unauthorized third-party use of our brand name. Future litigation with respect to such unauthorized use could also result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. These factors could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not own the right to use certain of our trademarks, including the ADT® brand name, outside of the United States and Canada. Following the Separation, Tyco owns the ADT® brand name outside of the United States and Canada and has licensed it to a third party in South Korea. Therefore, in order to expand our business outside the United States and Canada, we would need to either acquire or otherwise license the ADT® brand name from Tyco (to the extent not already used by Tyco in the applicable jurisdictions) or use an alternative brand name. This would put us at a distinct competitive disadvantage. Development of a new brand outside the United States and Canada could be costly and would also require us to market other brands as superior alternatives to the ADT® brand, which could undermine its value among customers within the United States and Canadian residential and business security markets. These factors may make it difficult for us to develop a business outside of the United States and Canada. These factors also expose us to the risk that the ADT® brand name could suffer reputational damage or devaluation for reasons outside of our control, including Tyco’s business conduct outside of the United States and Canada. Any of these factors may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16Table of ContentsInfringement of our intellectual property rights could negatively affect us. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our technology. Adverse events affecting the use of our trademarks could affect our use of those trademarks and negatively impact our brands. In addition, if we expand our business outside of the United States and Canada in the future, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some jurisdictions. Furthermore, while we enter into confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. If it becomes necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. Further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties could negatively affect us. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement rights by third parties. In particular, as our services have expanded into areas more heavily populated by intellectual property, we have become subject to claims alleging infringement of intellectual property, including litigation brought by special purpose or so-called "non-practicing" entities that focus solely on extracting royalties and settlements by enforcing patent rights. These companies typically have little or no business or operations and there are few effective deterrents available to prevent such companies from filing patent infringement lawsuits against us. In addition, we rely on licenses and other arrangements with third parties covering intellectual property related to the products and services that we market, including a patent agreement with Tyco covering the manufacture, use and sale of pre-Separation products. Notwithstanding these arrangements, we could be at risk for infringement claims from third parties, including Tyco. Although the patent agreement generally includes a covenant by Tyco not to sue us for products and services in existence as of the distribution date that may infringe Tyco patents, it does not protect us from infringement claims for future product or service expansions, or if we change third-party product suppliers or if an alleged infringement involves certain patents. In general, if a court determines that one or more of our services infringes on intellectual property owned by others, we may be required to cease marketing those services, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material cost or to take other actions to avoid infringing the intellectual property. The litigation process is costly and subject to inherent uncertainties, and we may not prevail in litigation matters regardless of the merits of our position. Intellectual property lawsuits or claims may become extremely disruptive if the plaintiffs succeed in blocking the trade of our products and services and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business operates in a regulated industry.Our operations and employees are subject to various federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in the United States and Canada in such areas as consumer protection, occupational licensing, environmental protection, labor and employment, tax and other laws and regulations. Most states and provinces in which we operate have licensing laws directed specifically toward the security services industry. Our business relies heavily upon the use of both wireline and wireless telecommunications to communicate signals, and telecommunications companies are regulated by federal, state and local governments. In certain jurisdictions, we are required to obtain licenses or permits in order to comply with standards governing employee selection and training and to meet certain standards in the conduct of our business. The loss of such licenses or permits or the imposition of conditions to the granting or retention of such licenses or permits could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, in certain jurisdictions, certain security systems must meet fire and building codes in order to be installed, and it is possible that our current or future products and service offerings will fail to meet such codes, which could require us to make costly modifications to our products and services or to forgo marketing in certain jurisdictions. Changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate or to utilize resources to maintain compliance, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. In addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. If laws and regulations were to change or if we or our products failed to comply with them, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.17Table of ContentsWe could be assessed penalties for false alarms.Some local governments impose assessments, fines, penalties and limitations on either customers or the alarm companies for false alarms. A few municipalities have adopted ordinances under which both permit and alarm dispatch fees are charged directly to the alarm companies. Our alarm service contracts generally allow us to pass these charges on to customers, but we may not be able to collect these charges if customers are unwilling or unable to pay them and such outcome may materially and adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, our customers may elect to terminate or not renew our services if assessments, fines or penalties for false alarms become significant. If more local governments were to impose assessments, fines or penalties, our customer base, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.Police departments could refuse to respond to calls from monitored security service companies.Police departments in a limited number of U.S. and Canadian jurisdictions do not respond to calls from monitored security service companies, either as a matter of policy or by local ordinance. In certain cases, in the U.S., we are seeing requirements for video verification or eyewitness accounts of suspicious activities and this will increase costs of some security systems which may increase costs to customers. As an alternative to video cameras, we have offered affected customers the option of receiving response from private guard companies, in most cases through contracts with us, which increases the overall cost to customers. If more police departments were to refuse to respond or be prohibited from responding to calls from monitored security service companies, our ability to attract and retain customers could be negatively impacted and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.Adoption of statutes and governmental policies purporting to characterize certain of our charges as unlawful may adversely affect our business.If a customer cancels their contract with us prior to the end of the initial contract term, other than in accordance with the contract, we may charge the customer an early cancellation fee. Consumer protection policies or legal precedents could be proposed or adopted to restrict the charges we can impose upon contract cancellation. Such initiatives could compel us to increase our prices during the initial term of our contracts and consequently lead to less demand for our services and increased attrition. Adverse judicial determinations regarding these matters could cause us to incur legal exposure to customers against whom such charges have been imposed and expose us to the risk that certain of our customers may seek to recover such charges through litigation. In addition, the costs of defending such litigation and enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We depend on third party providers and suppliers for components of our security and home/business automation systems, and third-party software licenses for our products and services, and any failure or interruption in products or services provided by these third parties could harm our ability to operate our business. The components for the security and home/business automation systems that we install are manufactured by third parties. We are therefore susceptible to interruptions in supply and to the receipt of components that do not meet our high standards. Any financial or other difficulties our providers face may have negative effects on our business. We exercise little control over our suppliers, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the products and services they provide. While we strive to utilize dual-sourcing methods to allow similar hardware components for our security systems to be interchangeable in order to minimize the risk of a disruption from a single supplier, any interruption in supply could cause delays in installations and repairs and the loss of current and potential customers. Also, if a previously installed component were found to be defective, we might not be able to recover the costs associated with its repair or replacement across our installed customer base, and the diversion of technical personnel to address the defect could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18Table of ContentsWe rely on third party software for key home automation features in our ADT Pulse® offering. We could experience service disruptions if customer usage patterns for our ADT Pulse® offering exceed, or are otherwise outside of, design parameters for the system and the ability for ADT or our third party provider to make corrections. Such interruptions in the provision of services could result in our inability to meet customer demand, damage our reputation and customer relationships and adversely affect our business. We also rely on certain software technology that we license from third parties and use in our products and services to perform key functions and provide critical functionality. For example, we license the software platform for our monitoring operations from third parties. Because a number of our products and services incorporate technology developed and maintained by third parties, we are, to a certain extent, dependent upon such third parties’ ability to maintain or enhance their current products and services, to ensure that their products are free of defects or security vulnerabilities, to develop new products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis and to respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. Further, these third-party technology licenses may not always be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If our agreements with third-party vendors are not renewed or the third-party software becomes obsolete, is incompatible with future versions of our products or services or otherwise fails to address our needs, we cannot provide assurance that we would be able to replace the functionality provided by the third-party software with technology from alternative providers. Furthermore, even if we obtain licenses to alternative software products or services that provide the functionality we need, we may be required to replace hardware installed at our monitoring centers and at our customers’ sites, including security system control panels and peripherals, in order to affect our integration of or migration to alternative software products. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We are exposed to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failure, than may be inherent in other businesses. If a customer or third party believes that he or she has suffered harm to person or property due to an actual or alleged act or omission of one of our employees or security system failure, he or she (or their insurers) may pursue legal action against us, and the cost of defending the legal action and of any judgment against us could be substantial. In particular, because our products and services are intended to help protect lives and real and personal property, we may have greater exposure to litigation risks than businesses that provide other consumer and small business products and services. Substantially all of our customer contracts contain a series of risk-mitigation provisions that serve to limit our liability and/or limit a claimant’s ability to pursue legal action; however, in the event of litigation with respect to such matters, it is possible that these risk-mitigation provisions may be deemed not applicable or unenforceable and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, we may incur significant costs of defense that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Certain providers of Internet access may block our services or charge their customers more for using our services, or government regulations relating to the Internet could change, which could adversely affect our revenue and growth. Our interactive and home automation services are accessed through the Internet and our security monitoring services, including those utilizing video streaming, are increasingly delivered using Internet technologies. Users who access our services through mobile devices, such as smart phones, laptops and tablet computers, must have a high-speed Internet connection, such as Wi-Fi, 3G or 4G, to use our services. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant and increasing market power in the broadband and Internet access marketplace, including telephone companies, cable companies and wireless companies. These providers could take measures that affect their customers’ ability to use our products and services, such as degrading the quality of the data packets we transmit over their lines, giving those packets low priority, giving other packets higher priority than ours, blocking our packets entirely or attempting to charge their customers more for using our products and services. To the extent that Internet service providers implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks, we could incur greater operating expenses and customer acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, to the extent network operators were to create tiers of Internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. Some of these providers also offer products and services that directly compete with our own offerings, which could potentially give them a competitive advantage.19Table of ContentsThe adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to Internet access could result in changes in how Internet service providers handle and charge for access to their networks. In January 2014, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia in Verizon v. FCC struck down major portions of the "net neutrality" rules adopted by the FCC in December 2010 that were intended, in part, to prevent broadband internet service providers from discriminating against legal Internet traffic. In May 2014, the FCC sought public comment on how it should ensure that the Internet remains open, and proposed new rules and enhancements to current rules. Many have interpreted the new proposal, however, as not banning the creation of fast lanes, in which a content provider might pay an Internet service provider a fee to give its content top priority for delivery to customers ("paid prioritization"). The FCC has received comments, held "Open Internet" roundtable discussions and is considering next steps. Within such an uncertain regulatory environment, we could experience interference or other discriminatory practices, such as those described above, that could cause us to lose customers and impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business.We have significant deferred tax assets, and any impairments of or valuation allowances against these deferred tax assets in the future could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We are subject to income taxes in the United States and Canada and in various state, territorial, provincial and local jurisdictions. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to our interpretation and application of tax laws in jurisdictions in which we file. Changes in current or future laws or regulations, the imposition of new or changed tax laws or regulations or new related interpretations by taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which we file could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our future consolidated federal and state income tax liability may be significantly reduced by tax credits and tax net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards available to us under the applicable tax codes. Our ability to fully utilize these deferred tax assets, however, may be limited for various reasons, such as if projected future taxable income becomes insufficient to recognize the full benefit of our NOL carryforwards prior to their expirations. As part of the Separation of the ADT residential business from Tyco in July 2012, a separate return limitation year ("SRLY") event occurred as defined under relevant U.S. Income Tax Regulations (the "Regulations"). A SRLY event can limit a corporation's ability to utilize carryforward attributes should income attributable to specific subgroup members relative to total U.S. consolidated income be insufficient to allow for full utilization. In addition, if a corporation experiences an "ownership change," Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") Sections 382 and 383 provide annual limitations with respect to the ability of a corporation to utilize its net operating loss (as well as certain built-in losses) and tax credit carryforwards against future U.S. taxable income. In general an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of the corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year testing period. During fiscal year 2013, we determined that the SRLY limitation was no longer applicable as an ownership change is deemed to have occurred upon Separation from Tyco on September 28, 2012 in accordance with Code Section 382. Therefore, pursuant to the Code Section 382 "overlap rule," the tax attributes as of the end of September 2012 are only subject to the limitations provided by Code Sections 382 and 383. We do not, however, expect that this limitation will impact our ability to utilize the tax attributes carried forward from pre-Separation periods.In addition to the pre-Separation tax attributes, we generated a significant NOL in fiscal year 2013 along with tax credit carryforwards. Our ability to fully utilize these tax assets may also be affected if in the future we experience another "ownership change" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code. Future changes in our stock ownership, depending on the magnitude, including the purchase or sale of our common stock by five percent stockholders, and issuances or redemptions of common stock by us could result in an ownership change that would trigger the imposition of limitations under Section 382 of the Code for these post-Separation tax attributes. In addition, as a significant taxpayer, we are subject to regular audits by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") as well as state, territorial, provincial and local tax authorities. These audits, whether for periods before Separation or post-Separation, could subject us to tax liabilities if tax authorities make adverse determinations with respect to our NOLs or tax credits. Further, any future disallowance of some or all of our tax credits or NOL carryforwards as a result of legislative change could materially affect our tax obligations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that in the future we will not be subject to increased taxation or experience limitations with respect to recognizing the benefits of our NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes. Any such increase in taxation or limitation of benefits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.If we are unable to hire and retain key personnel, including an effective sales force, our ability to manage our business could be adversely affected.Our success will depend in part upon the continued services of our management team and sales representatives. Our ability to retain and hire new key personnel for management positions and effective sales representatives could be impacted adversely by the competitive environment for management and sales talent. The loss, incapacity or unavailability for any reason of key members of our management team and the inability or delay in hiring new key employees including sales force personnel could adversely affect our ability to manage our business and our future operational and financial results.20Table of ContentsAdverse developments in our relationship with our employees could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.As of September 26, 2014, approximately 2,100 of our employees at various sites, or approximately 12% of our total workforce, were represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our relationships with these unions have generally been good. We are currently party to approximately 32 collective bargaining agreements in the United States and Canada. Almost one-third of these agreements are up for renewal in any given year. We cannot predict the outcome of negotiations of the collective bargaining agreements covering our employees. If we are unable to reach new agreements or renew existing agreements, employees subject to collective bargaining agreements may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services. New labor agreements or the renewal of existing agreements may impose significant new costs on us, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future.We may be subject to liability for obligations of The Brink’s Company under the Coal Act.On May 14, 2010, we acquired Broadview Security, a business formerly owned by The Brink’s Company. Under the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992, as amended (the "Coal Act"), The Brink’s Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries as of July 20, 1992 (including certain legal entities acquired in the Broadview Security acquisition) are jointly and severally liable with certain of The Brink’s Company’s other current and former subsidiaries for health care coverage obligations provided for by the Coal Act. A Voluntary Employees’ Beneficiary Associate ("VEBA") trust has been established by The Brink’s Company to pay for these liabilities, although the trust may have insufficient funds to satisfy all future obligations. At the time of the Broadview Spin-Off, Broadview Security entered into an agreement pursuant to which The Brink’s Company agreed to indemnify it for any and all liabilities and expenses related to The Brink’s Company’s former coal operations, including any health care coverage obligations. The Brink’s Company has agreed that this indemnification survives our acquisition of Broadview Security. We have evaluated our potential liability under the Coal Act as a contingency in light of all known facts, including the funding of the VEBA and indemnification provided by The Brink’s Company. We have concluded that no accrual is necessary due to the existence of the indemnification and our belief that The Brink’s Company and VEBA will be able to satisfy all future obligations under the Coal Act. However, if The Brink’s Company and the VEBA are unable to satisfy all such obligations, we could be held liable, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Risks Relating to Our Liquidity Disruptions in the financial markets or changes in our credit ratings could adversely affect us by reducing availability of credit or access to financing on favorable terms or at all and could adversely affect our suppliers by increasing funding costs or reducing availability of credit.In the normal course of our business, we may access the capital markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of common stock, capital expenditures and investments in our business. We rely on the capital markets, particularly for offerings of debt securities to meet our financial commitments and liquidity needs. Although we expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the financial markets or changes in our credit ratings. In recent years, the credit markets experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, and similar disruptions in the credit markets in the future could make financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. These factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access the capital markets if the need arises. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for potential strategic partners to commence new projects, as they may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. Disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slowdown in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. These disruptions may have other unknown adverse effects. One or more of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.In fiscal 2013, Standard and Poor’s Rating Services, Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Fitch Ratings downgraded the Company from BBB to BB-, from Baa2 to Ba2 and from BBB+ to BBB-, respectively. Our credit ratings are based upon information furnished by us or obtained by a rating agency from its own sources and are subject to revision, suspension or withdrawal by one or more rating agencies at any time. Rating agencies may review the ratings assigned to us due to developments that are beyond our control, including as a result of new standards requiring the agencies to reassess rating practices and methodologies. If further downgrades in our credit ratings were to occur, it could result in higher interest costs under our revolving credit facility. It could also cause our future borrowing costs to increase and reduce our access to capital.21Table of ContentsCovenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us.Our revolving credit facility contains customary covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA"), a minimum required ratio of EBITDA to interest expense and limits on incurrence of liens and subsidiary debt. In addition, the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes contains customary covenants including limits on liens and sale/leaseback transactions.Our ability to meet our financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our revolving credit facility or our indenture. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our revolving credit facility or our indenture, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of credit facility lenders, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our revolving credit facility and our other indebtedness. Furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.We may continue to increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial health and may decrease our profitability.We may continue to increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our revolving credit facility and indenture and any debt agreements covering debt incurred subsequent to the date of this report. If our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, or if our cash requirements are more than we expect, we may require more financing. However, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of additional capital stock, the terms of the debt or our capital stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. The terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. If we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, your percentage ownership in us would decline. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, it could affect our financial health. Material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness.We estimate that our available cash, our cash flow from operations and amounts available to us under our revolving credit facility will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt over both the short term and the long term. However, material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from litigation and similar contingencies could require additional funding. If such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such an outcome could have important consequences to holders of shares of our common stock. For example, it could:•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other corporate purposes, including dividend payments;•increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate;•restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities;•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and•increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness.See risk factor "We are subject to securities class actions which may harm our business and results of operations," and Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings.We are exposed to counterparty risk in our hedging arrangements. From time to time, we enter into arrangements with financial institutions to hedge exposure to fluctuations in currency and interest rates, including forward contracts, options and swap agreements. The failure of one or more counterparties to our hedging arrangements to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect our results of operations.22Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common StockProvisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids more expensive to the acquiror and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings and the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. Accordingly, in the event that our board of directors determines that a potential business combination transaction is not in the best interests of our company and our stockholders but certain stockholders believe that such a transaction would be beneficial to our company and our stockholders, such stockholders may elect to sell their shares in our company and the trading price of our common stock could decrease.In addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger change in control and severance benefits to certain executive employees under the terms of either our Severance Plan for U.S. Officers and Executives or Change in Control Severance Plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction.Risks Relating to our Separation from Tyco We share responsibility for certain income tax liabilities of ADT, Tyco and Pentair Ltd., formerly Tyco Flow Control International Ltd. ("Pentair") for tax periods prior to and including September 28, 2012, and such liabilities may include a portion of Tyco's obligations under its tax sharing agreement with Covidien Ltd. ("Covidien") and TE Connectivity Ltd. ("TE Connectivity") for tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including June 29, 2007.In connection with the 2007 distributions of Covidien and TE Connectivity by Tyco (the "2007 Separation"), Tyco entered into a tax sharing agreement (the "2007 Tax Sharing Agreement") that governs the rights and obligations of each party with respect to certain pre-2007 Separation tax liabilities and certain tax liabilities arising in connection with the 2007 Separation. More specifically, Tyco, Covidien and TE Connectivity share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to Tyco's, Covidien's and TE Connectivity's U.S. and certain non-U.S. income tax returns and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the 2007 Separation. In addition, in the event the 2007 Separation or certain related transactions is determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the 2007 Separation by Tyco, Covidien or TE Connectivity, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on Tyco, Covidien or TE Connectivity as a result thereof. If none of the companies is responsible for such failure, then Tyco, Covidien and TE Connectivity would be responsible for such taxes, in the same manner and in the same proportions as other shared tax liabilities under the 2007 Tax Sharing Agreement. Costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are generally shared equally among the parties.In connection with the Separation from Tyco, we entered into a tax sharing agreement (the "2012 Tax Sharing Agreement") with Tyco and Pentair that governs the rights and obligations of ADT, Tyco and Pentair for certain pre-Separation tax liabilities, including Tyco's obligations under the 2007 Tax Sharing Agreement. The 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement provides that ADT, Tyco and Pentair will share (i) certain pre-Separation income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to ADT's, Tyco's, and Pentair's U.S. and certain non-U.S. income tax returns, and (ii) payments required to be made by Tyco in respect to the 2007 Tax Sharing Agreement (collectively, "Shared Tax Liabilities"). Tyco will be responsible for the first $500 million of Shared Tax Liabilities. ADT and Pentair will share 58% and 42%, respectively, of the next $225 million of Shared Tax Liabilities. ADT, Tyco and Pentair will share 27.5%, 52.5% and 20.0%, respectively, of Shared Tax Liabilities above $725 million.23Table of ContentsWith respect to years prior to and including the 2007 Separation, tax authorities have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments that are generally subject to the sharing provisions of the 2007 Tax Sharing Agreement and which may require Tyco to make a payment to a taxing authority, Covidien or TE Connectivity. Although Tyco has advised us that it has resolved a substantial number of these adjustments, a few significant items raised by the IRS remain open with respect to the audits of the 1997 through 2007 tax years. On July 1, 2013, Tyco announced that the IRS issued Notices of Deficiency to Tyco primarily related to the treatment of certain intercompany debt transactions (the "Tyco IRS Notices"). These notices assert that additional taxes of $883 million plus penalties of $154 million are owed based on audits of the 1997 through 2000 tax years of Tyco and its subsidiaries, as they existed at that time. Further, Tyco reported receiving Final Partnership Administrative Adjustments (the "Partnership Notices") for certain U.S. partnerships owned by its former U.S. subsidiaries, for which Tyco has informed that it estimates an additional tax deficiency of approximately $30 million will be asserted. The additional tax assessments related to the Tyco IRS Notices and the Partnership Notices exclude interest and do not reflect the impact on subsequent periods if the IRS challenge to Tyco's tax filings is proved correct. Tyco has filed petitions with the U.S. Tax Court to contest the IRS assessments. Consistent with its petitions filed with the U.S. Tax Court, Tyco has advised us that it strongly disagrees with the IRS position and believes (i) it has meritorious defenses for the respective tax filings, (ii) the IRS positions with regard to these matters are inconsistent with applicable tax laws and Treasury regulations, and (iii) the previously reported taxes for the years in question are appropriate. If the IRS should successfully assert its position, our share of the collective liability, if any, would be determined pursuant to the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement. In accordance with the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement, the amount ultimately assessed under the Tyco IRS Notices and the Partnership Notices would have to be in excess of $1.85 billion, including other assessments for unrelated historical tax matters Tyco has, or may settle in the future, before we would be required to pay any of the amounts assessed. We believe that our income tax reserves and the liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement continue to be appropriate. No payments with respect to these matters would be required until the dispute is resolved in the U.S. Tax Court. A trial date has been set for February 2016. However, the ultimate resolution of these matters is uncertain, and if the IRS were to prevail, it could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, potentially including a reduction in our available net operating loss carryforwards. We are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement's sharing formulae, and Tyco and Pentair are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement's sharing formulae. We also have sole responsibility for any income tax liability arising as a result of our acquisition of Broadview Security in May 2010, including any liability of Broadview Security under the tax sharing agreement between Broadview Security and The Brink's Company dated October 31, 2008 (collectively, the "Broadview Tax Liabilities"). Costs and expenses associated with the management of Shared Tax Liabilities and Broadview Tax Liabilities are generally shared 20% by Pentair, 27.5% by ADT, and 52.5% by Tyco.All the tax liabilities that are associated with our businesses, including liabilities that arose prior to the Separation, have become our tax liabilities. Although we have agreed to share certain of these tax liabilities with Tyco and Pentair pursuant to the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement, we remain primarily liable for all of these liabilities. If Tyco and Pentair default on their obligations to us under the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement, we would be liable for the entire amount of these liabilities. In addition, if another party to the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, Tyco's and Pentair's tax liabilities.We recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the United States and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. These tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. We adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of tax liabilities. Under the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement, Tyco has the right to administer, control and settle all U.S. income tax audits for periods prior to and including September 28, 2012. The timing, nature and amount of any settlement agreed to by Tyco may not be in our best interests. All other tax audits will be administered, controlled and settled by the party that would be responsible for paying the tax.To the extent we are responsible for any liability under the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement and if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the amount for which we are ultimately liable, we would incur additional income tax expense, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods.24Table of ContentsIf the distribution of ADT or Pentair common shares by Tyco to its shareholders or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of such distributions are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and/or Tyco could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.Tyco has received a private letter ruling from the IRS regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the Separation and the distribution of Pentair common shares by Tyco to its shareholders (the "Pentair Distribution" and, together with the Separation, the "Distributions") to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Separation will qualify as tax-free under Section 355 of the Code and the Pentair Distribution will qualify as tax-free under Sections 355 and 361 of the Code, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of our common stock and the Pentair common shares. The private letter ruling also provides that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the Distributions will qualify for favorable treatment under the Code. In addition to obtaining the private letter ruling, Tyco obtained an opinion from the law firm of McDermott Will & Emery LLP confirming the tax-free status of the Distributions for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The private letter ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us, Pentair and Tyco regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and the opinion, the IRS could determine on audit that the Separation, the Pentair Distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the Separation, the Pentair Distribution or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the Distributions. An opinion of counsel represents counsel's best legal judgment, is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the opinion. In addition, the opinion was based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. If the Separation ultimately is determined to be taxable, the Separation could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to our stockholders as of the date of the Separation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and those stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. In addition, Tyco would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of shares of our common stock and the Pentair common shares distributed to Tyco shareholders on the distribution date over Tyco's tax basis in such shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to U.S. federal income tax. However, we or Tyco could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities if it ultimately is determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the Distributions are taxable. In addition, under the terms of the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement, in the event the Separation, the Pentair Distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the Distributions by us, Pentair or Tyco, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us, Pentair or Tyco as a result thereof. Taxes resulting from the determination that the Separation, the Pentair Distribution, or any internal transaction that was intended to be tax-free is taxable are referred to herein as "Distribution Taxes." If such failure is not the result of actions taken after the Distributions by us, Pentair or Tyco, then we, Pentair and Tyco generally would be responsible for 27.5%, 20% and 52.5%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on us, Pentair or Tyco as a result of such determination. Such tax amounts could be significant. In the event that any party to the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement defaults in its obligation to pay Distribution Taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. To the extent we are responsible for any liability under the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods.If the Separation is determined to be taxable for Swiss withholding tax purposes, we or Tyco could incur significant Swiss withholding tax liabilities. Generally, Swiss withholding tax of 35% is due on dividends and similar distributions to our and Tyco's shareholders, regardless of the place of residency of the shareholder. As of January 1, 2011, distributions to shareholders out of qualifying contributed surplus (Kapitaleinlage) accumulated on or after January 1, 1997 are exempt from Swiss withholding tax, if certain conditions are met (Kapitaleinlageprinzip). Tyco obtained a tax ruling from the Swiss Federal Tax Administration confirming that the Separation qualifies as payment out of such qualifying contributed surplus and, therefore, no amount was withheld by Tyco when making the Separation. This tax ruling relies on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from Tyco regarding the past conduct of its businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding this tax ruling, the Swiss Federal Tax Administration could determine on audit that the Separation should be treated as a taxable transaction for withholding tax purposes if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. If the Separation ultimately is determined to be taxable for withholding tax purposes, we and Tyco could incur material Swiss withholding tax liabilities that could significantly detract from or eliminate the benefits of the Separation. In addition, we could become liable to indemnify Tyco for part of any Swiss withholding tax liabilities to the extent provided under the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement. 25Table of ContentsOur combined financial information for periods prior to September 28, 2012, is not necessarily representative of the results we could achieve as an independent, publicly-traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results.The combined financial information included in this report for periods prior to September 28, 2012 does not necessarily reflect the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows that we could achieve as an independent, publicly-traded company or those that we will achieve in the future. This is primarily because:•Prior to the Separation, our business was operated by Tyco as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent, publicly-traded company. In addition, prior to the Separation, Tyco, or one of its affiliates, performed significant corporate functions for us, including tax and treasury administration and certain governance functions, including internal audit and external reporting. Our combined financial statements for periods prior to September 28, 2012 reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Tyco for these and similar functions. •For periods prior to September 28, 2012, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, were satisfied as part of Tyco's company-wide cash management practices. As an independent, publicly-traded company, we no longer obtain funds from Tyco to finance our working capital or other cash requirements. Rather, we obtain financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities or other arrangements.•Other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of our operating as a company separate from Tyco. For additional information about our past financial performance and the basis of presentation of our financial statements, see "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and our Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements.The ownership by some of our executive officers and directors of common shares, options or other equity awards of Tyco or Pentair may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest.Because of their former positions with Tyco, some of our executive officers, including our chief executive officer and some of our non-employee directors, own common shares of Tyco and Pentair, options to purchase common shares of Tyco and Pentair or other equity awards in Tyco and Pentair. The individual holdings of common shares, options to purchase common shares or other equity awards of Tyco and Pentair may be significant for some of these persons compared to their total assets. These equity interests may create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could benefit or affect the equity holders of Tyco or Pentair in ways that do not benefit or affect us in the same manner.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None. 