Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risk factors set forth below should be carefully considered. The risks described below are those that we believe are risks that we face that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, however, they are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryWe face significant competition for customers, real estate and employees and competitive pressure to adapt to changes in conditions driving customer traffic. Our inability to compete effectively may affect our traffic, sales and profit margins, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with a substantial number of restaurant operators that compete directly and indirectly with us in respect to price, service, location and food quality, and there are other well-established competitors with significant financial and other resources. There is also active competition for management personnel as well as attractive suitable real estate sites. Consumer tastes, nutritional and dietary trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants often affect the restaurant business, and our competitors may react more efficiently and effectively to those conditions. Further, we face growing competition from the supermarket industry, with the improvement of their “convenient meals” in the deli and prepared food sections, and from quick service and fast casual restaurants, as a result of higher-quality food and beverage offerings by those restaurants. If we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our traffic, sales and margins could decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.Challenging economic conditions may have a negative effect on our business and financial results through lower consumer confidence and discretionary spending, availability and cost of credit, foreign currency exchange rates and other items.Challenging economic conditions may negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus cause a decline in our cash flows from operations. For example, the ongoing impacts of the housing crisis, high unemployment, financial market volatility and unpredictability, the so-called “sequester” and related governmental spending and budget matters, other national, regional and local regulatory and economic conditions, gasoline prices, reduced disposable consumer income and consumer confidence have had a negative effect on discretionary consumer spending. This has negatively affected customer traffic and comparable restaurant sales for us and throughout our industry thus far in 2013. We believe these factors and conditions are creating a challenging sales environment in the casual dining sector for 2013. If challenging economic conditions persist for an extended period of time or worsen, consumers might make long-lasting changes to their discretionary spending behavior, including dining out less frequently. The ability of the U.S. economy to continue to recover from these challenging economic conditions is likely to be affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control, including current economic trends in Europe. Continued weakness in or a further worsening of the economy, generally or in a number of our markets, and our customers’ reactions to these trends could result in increased pressure with respect to our pricing, traffic levels, commodity costs and the continuation of our innovation and productivity initiatives, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. These factors could also cause us to, among other things, reduce the number and frequency of new restaurant openings, close restaurants or delay remodeling of our existing restaurant locations.In addition, as noted in our other risk factors, our high degree of leverage could increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions and require that a substantial portion of cash flow from operations be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. Further, the availability of credit already arranged for under our revolving credit facilities and the cost and availability of future credit may be adversely impacted by economic challenges. Foreign currency exchange rates for the countries in which we operate may decline. In addition, we may experience interruptions in supplies and other services from our third-party vendors as a result of market conditions. 25Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.These disruptions in the economy are beyond our control, and there is no guarantee that any government response will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the economy or increase the availability of credit.Loss of key management personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully.Our success will continue to depend, to a significant extent, on our leadership team and other key management personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficiently experienced and capable management personnel, our business and financial results may suffer. If members of our leadership team or other key management personnel leave, we may have difficulty replacing them, and our business may suffer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully attract and retain our leadership team and other key management personnel that we need.Risks associated with our expansion plans may have adverse effects on our ability to increase revenues.As part of our business strategy, we intend to continue to expand our current portfolio of restaurants. Current development schedules call for the construction of between 45 and 55 new system-wide locations in 2013. A variety of factors could cause the actual results and outcome of those expansion plans to differ from the anticipated results, including among other things: •the availability of attractive sites for new restaurants and the ability to acquire or lease appropriate real estate at those sites at acceptable prices;•our ability to generate sufficient funds from operations or to obtain acceptable financing to support our development;•our ability to obtain all required governmental permits, including zoning approvals and liquor licenses, on a timely basis;•the impact of moratoriums or approval processes of state, local or foreign governments, which could result in significant delays;•our ability to obtain all necessary contractors and sub-contractors;•union activities such as picketing and hand billing, which could delay construction;•our ability to negotiate suitable lease terms;•our ability to recruit and train skilled management and restaurant employees;•our ability to receive the premises from the landlord’s developer without any delays;•weather, natural disasters and disasters beyond our control resulting in construction delays; and•consumer tastes in new geographic regions and acceptance of our restaurant concepts.Some of our new restaurants may take several months to reach planned operating levels due to lack of market awareness, start-up costs and other factors typically associated with new restaurants. There is also the possibility that new restaurants may attract customers away from other restaurants we own, thereby reducing the revenues of those existing restaurants.Development rates for each concept may differ significantly. The development of each concept may not be as successful as our experience in the past. It is difficult to estimate the performance of newly opened restaurants. Earnings achieved to date by restaurants open for less than two years may not be indicative of future operating results. Should enough of these new restaurants not meet targeted performance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.26Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.We could face labor shortages that could slow our growth and adversely impact our ability to operate our restaurants.Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including managing partners, restaurant managers, kitchen staff and servers, necessary to keep pace with our anticipated expansion schedule and meet the needs of our existing restaurants. A sufficient number of qualified individuals of the requisite caliber to fill these positions may be in short supply in some communities. Competition in these communities for qualified staff could require us to pay higher wages and provide greater benefits. Any inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may also delay the planned openings of new restaurants and could adversely impact our existing restaurants. Any such inability to retain or recruit qualified employees, increased costs of attracting qualified employees or delays in restaurant openings could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and past results are not indicative of future results.Historically, customer spending patterns for our established restaurants are generally highest in the first quarter of the year and lowest in the third quarter of the year. Additionally, holidays may affect sales volumes seasonally in some of the markets in which we operate. Our quarterly results have been and will continue to be affected by the timing of new restaurant openings and their associated pre-opening costs, as well as restaurant closures and exit-related costs and impairments of goodwill, intangible assets and property, fixtures and equipment. As a result of these and other factors, our financial results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year.Significant adverse weather conditions and other disasters could negatively impact our results of operations.Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as regional winter storms, floods, major hurricanes and earthquakes, severe thunderstorms and other disasters, such as oil spills, could negatively impact our results of operations. Temporary and prolonged restaurant closures may occur and customer traffic may decline due to the actual or perceived effects from these events.We may be required to use cash to pay one of our franchisees in connection with a put right under a settlement agreement, which could have an adverse impact on our development plans and operating results.In connection with the settlement of litigation with T-Bird, which include the franchisees of 56 Outback Steakhouse restaurants in California, we entered into an agreement with T-Bird pursuant to which T-Bird has the right, referred to as the Put Right, to require us to purchase for cash all of the ownership interests in the T-Bird entities (which include general and limited partnership interests in such entities) that own 56 restaurants. The Put Right is exercisable by T-Bird until August 13, 2013. If the Put Right is exercised, we will pay a purchase price equal to a multiple of the T-Bird entities’ adjusted EBITDA, net of liabilities, for the trailing 12 months as of the closing of the purchase from T-Bird. The multiple will be equal to 75% of the multiple of our adjusted EBITDA for the same trailing 12-month period as reflected in our stock price. We have a one-time right to reject the exercise of the Put Right if the transaction would be dilutive to our consolidated earnings per share. In that event, the Put Right is extended until the first anniversary of our notice to the T-Bird entities of that rejection. We have agreed to waive all rights of first refusal in our franchise arrangements with the T-Bird entities in connection with a sale of all, and not less than all, of the assets, or at least 75% of the ownership, of the T-Bird entities. If the Put Right is exercised, we will have to use cash to pay the purchase price that could have been allocated to more profitable development initiatives or other business needs, and we will then own restaurants that may not fit our current expansion criteria. This could have an adverse impact on our operating results.We have limited control with respect to the operations of our franchisees and joint venture partners, which could have a negative impact on our business.Our franchisees and joint venture partners are obligated to operate their restaurants according to the specific guidelines we set forth. We provide training opportunities to these franchisees and joint venture partners to fully integrate them into our operating strategy. However, since we do not have control over these restaurants, we cannot give assurance that there will not be differences in product quality or that there will be adherence to all of our guidelines at these 27Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.restaurants. The failure of these restaurants to operate effectively or in accordance with our guidelines could adversely affect our cash flows from those operations or have a negative impact on our reputation or our business.Our failure to comply with government regulation, and the costs of compliance or non-compliance, could adversely affect our business.We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws affecting our business. Each of our restaurants is subject to licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, which may include, among others, alcoholic beverage control, health and safety, nutritional menu labeling, health care, environmental and fire agencies in the state, municipality or country in which the restaurant is located. Difficulty in obtaining or failing to obtain the required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the development of a new restaurant in a particular area. Additionally, difficulties or inabilities to retain or renew licenses, or increased compliance costs due to changed regulations, could adversely affect operations at existing restaurants.Approximately 15% of our consolidated restaurant sales are attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require each of our restaurants to apply to a state authority and, in certain locations, county or municipal authorities for a license or permit to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises and to provide service for extended hours and on Sundays. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of daily operations of our restaurants, including minimum age of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, training, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling and storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. The failure of a restaurant to obtain or retain liquor or food service licenses would adversely affect the restaurant’s operations. Additionally, we are subject in certain states to “dram shop” statutes, which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person.Our restaurant operations are also subject to federal and state labor laws, including the Fair Labor Standards Act, governing such matters as minimum wages, overtime, tip credits and worker conditions. Our employees who receive tips as part of their compensation, such as servers, are generally paid at a minimum wage rate, after giving effect to applicable tip credits. We rely on our employees to accurately disclose the full amount of their tip income, and we base our FICA tax reporting on the disclosures provided to us by such tipped employees. Our other personnel, such as our kitchen staff, are typically paid in excess of minimum wage. As significant numbers of our food service and preparation personnel are paid at rates related to the applicable minimum wage, further increases in the minimum wage, including the recent proposal by President Obama to increase the federal minimum wage by $1.75 per hour and index future increases to inflation, or other changes in these laws could increase our labor costs. Our ability to respond to minimum wage increases by increasing menu prices will depend on the responses of our competitors and customers. Further, we continue to assess our health care benefit costs. Due to the breadth and complexity of federal health care legislation and the staggered implementation of its provisions and corresponding regulations, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the health care legislation on our business over the coming years. Although these laws do not mandate that employers offer health insurance to all employees who are eligible under the legislation, beginning in 2014 penalties will be assessed on large employers who do not offer health insurance that meets certain affordability or benefit requirements. Providing health insurance benefits to employees that are more extensive than the health insurance benefits we currently provide and to a potentially larger proportion of our employees, or the payment of penalties if the specified level of coverage is not provided at an affordable cost to employees, will increase our expenses. If we are unable to raise our prices or cut other costs to cover this expense, such increases in expenses could materially reduce our operating profit. Our distributors and suppliers also may be affected by higher minimum wage and benefit standards, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us.The PPACA enacted in March 2010 requires chain restaurants with 20 or more locations in the United States to comply with federal nutritional disclosure requirements. The FDA has indicated that it intends to issue final regulations by the first part of 2013 and begin enforcing the regulations by the end of 2013 or beginning of 2014. A number of states, counties and cities have also enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to disclose certain 28Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.nutritional information to customers, or have enacted legislation restricting the use of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. Although the federal legislation is intended to preempt conflicting state or local laws on nutrition labeling, until we are required to comply with the federal law we will be subject to a patchwork of state and local laws and regulations regarding nutritional content disclosure requirements. Many of these requirements are inconsistent or are interpreted differently from one jurisdiction to another. The effect of such labeling requirements on consumer choices, if any, is unclear at this time. We may also become subject to other legislation or regulation seeking to tax or regulate high fat and high sodium foods, particularly in the U.S., which could be costly to comply with.There is also a potential for increased regulation of food in the United States under the recent changes in the HACCP system requirements. HACCP refers to a management system in which food safety is addressed through the analysis and control of potential hazards from production, procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product. Many states have required restaurants to develop and implement HACCP Systems and the United States government continues to expand the sectors of the food industry that must adopt and implement HACCP programs. For example, the FSMA, enacted in January 2011, granted the FDA new authority regarding the safety of the entire food system, including through increased inspections and mandatory food recalls. Although restaurants are specifically exempted from or not directly implicated by some of these new requirements, we anticipate that the new requirements may impact our industry. Additionally, our suppliers may initiate or otherwise be subject to food recalls that may impact the availability of certain products, result in adverse publicity or require us to take actions that could be costly for us or otherwise harm our business.We are subject to the ADA, which, among other things, requires our restaurants to meet federally mandated requirements for the disabled. The ADA prohibits discrimination in employment and public accommodations on the basis of disability. Under the ADA, we could be required to expend funds to modify our restaurants to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for the employment of, disabled persons. In addition, our employment practices are subject to the requirements of the Immigration and Naturalization Service relating to citizenship and residency. Government regulations could affect and change the items we procure for resale such as commodities. We may also become subject to legislation or regulation seeking to tax or regulate high fat and high sodium foods, particularly in the United States, which could be costly to comply with. Our results can be impacted by tax legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate and by accounting standards or pronouncements.We are also subject to laws and regulations relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments, gift cards and consumer credit, protection and fraud, and any failure or perceived failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our reputation or lead to litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition.Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the taxes we pay and our profitability.We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates; changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in tax laws; the outcome of income tax audits; and any repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of a tax audit could have a material effect on our income tax provision, results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. In addition, our effective income tax rate and our results may be impacted by our ability to realize deferred tax benefits and by any release of our valuation allowances applied to our existing deferred tax assets.29Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.We face a variety of risks associated with doing business in foreign markets that could have a negative impact on our financial performance.We have a significant number of franchised, joint venture and Company-owned Outback Steakhouse restaurants outside the United States, and we intend to continue our efforts to grow internationally. Although we believe we have developed an appropriate support structure for international operations and growth, there is no assurance that international operations will be profitable or international growth will continue.Our foreign operations are subject to all of the same risks as our domestic restaurants, as well as additional risks including, among others, international economic and political conditions and the possibility of instability and unrest, differing cultures and consumer preferences, diverse government regulations and tax systems, the ability to source high quality ingredients and other commodities in a cost-effective manner, uncertain or differing interpretations of rights and obligations in connection with international franchise agreements and the collection of ongoing royalties from international franchisees, the availability and cost of land and construction costs, and the availability of experienced management, appropriate franchisees and area operating partners.Currency regulations and fluctuations in exchange rates could also affect our performance. We have direct investments in restaurants in South Korea, Hong Kong, China and Brazil, as well as international franchises, in a total of 19 countries. As a result, we may experience losses from foreign currency translation, and such losses could adversely affect our overall sales and earnings.We are subject to governmental regulation throughout the world, including antitrust and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, import/export/customs regulations and other international trade regulations, the USA Patriot Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Any new regulatory or trade initiatives could impact our operations in certain countries. Failure to comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.Increased commodity, energy and other costs could decrease our profit margins or cause us to limit or otherwise modify our menus, which could adversely affect our business.The performance of our restaurants depends on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the price and availability of food commodities, including among other things beef, chicken, seafood, butter, cheese and produce. Prices may be affected due to market changes, increased competition, the general risk of inflation, shortages or interruptions in supply due to weather, disease or other conditions beyond our control, or other reasons. Increased prices or shortages could affect the cost and quality of the items we buy or require us to raise prices or limit our menu options. For example, in 2012, commodity costs increased by approximately 3% and, as a result, we increased our prices at each of our concepts in the range of 2.0% to 2.3%. These events, combined with other more general economic and demographic conditions, could impact our pricing and negatively affect our sales and profit margins.The performance of our restaurants is also adversely affected by increases in the price of utilities, such as natural gas, whether as a result of inflation, shortages or interruptions in supply, or otherwise. We use derivative instruments to mitigate some of our overall exposure to material increases in natural gas prices. We do not apply hedge accounting to these instruments, and any changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments are marked-to-market through earnings in the period of change. To date, the effects of these derivative instruments have been immaterial to our financial statements for all periods presented.Our business also incurs significant costs for insurance, labor, marketing, taxes, real estate, borrowing and litigation, all of which could increase due to inflation, changes in laws, competition or other events beyond our control.Our ability to respond to increased costs by increasing menu prices or by implementing alternative processes or products will depend on our ability to anticipate and react to such increases and other more general economic and demographic conditions, as well as the responses of our competitors and customers. All of these things may be difficult to predict and beyond our control. In this manner, increased costs could adversely affect our performance.30Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.Infringement of our intellectual property could diminish the value of our restaurant concepts and harm our business.We regard our service marks, including “Outback Steakhouse,” “Carrabba’s Italian Grill,” “Bonefish Grill,” “Fleming’s Prime Steakhouse and Wine Bar” and “Roy’s” and our “Bloomin’ Onion” trademark as having significant value and as being important factors in the marketing of our restaurants. We have also obtained trademarks for several of our other menu items and for various advertising slogans. In addition, the overall layout, appearance and designs of our restaurants are valuable assets. We believe that these and other intellectual property are valuable assets that are critical to our success. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, copyrights, trademarks, and other common law rights, such as trade secret and unfair competition laws, to protect our restaurants and services from infringement. We have registered certain trademarks and service marks and have other registration applications pending in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. However, not all of the trademarks or service marks that we currently use have been registered in all of the countries in which we do business, and they may never be registered in all of these countries. There may not be adequate protection for certain intellectual property such as the overall appearance of our restaurants. We are aware of names and marks similar to our service marks being used by other persons in certain geographic areas in which we have restaurants. Although we believe such uses will not adversely affect us, further or currently unknown unauthorized uses or other misappropriation of our trademarks or service marks could diminish the value of our brands and restaurant concepts and may adversely affect our business. We may be unable to detect such unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights.Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we have or intend to open or franchise a restaurant. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could damage or even destroy our brands and impair our ability to compete effectively. Even where we have effectively secured statutory protection for intellectual property, our competitors may misappropriate our intellectual property and our employees, consultants and suppliers may breach their obligations not to reveal our confidential information, including trade secrets. Although we have taken appropriate measures to protect our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop products or concepts that are substantially similar to our restaurants and services. Despite our efforts, it may be possible for third-parties to reverse-engineer, otherwise obtain, copy, and use information that we regard as proprietary. Furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights, branding practices and other intellectual property, and seeking injunctions against and/or compensation for misappropriation of confidential information, could result in the expenditure of significant resources.Restaurant companies, including ours, have been the target of class action lawsuits and other proceedings alleging, among other things, violations of federal and state workplace and employment laws. Proceedings of this nature are costly, divert management attention and, if successful, could result in our payment of substantial damages or settlement costs.Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers, suppliers, franchisees, minority investors, stockholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. In recent years, we and other restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits have been instituted from time to time alleging violations of various federal and state wage and hour laws regarding, among other things, employee meal deductions, the sharing of tips among certain employees, overtime eligibility of assistant managers and failure to pay for all hours worked. If we are required to pay substantial damages and expenses as a result of these or other types of lawsuits our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.Occasionally, our customers file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we are responsible for some illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to one of our restaurants, including actions seeking damages resulting from food borne illness and relating to notices with respect to chemicals contained in food products required under state law. We are also subject to a variety of other claims from third parties arising in the ordinary course of our business, including 31Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.personal injury claims, contract claims and claims alleging violations of federal and state laws. In addition, our restaurants are subject to state “dram shop” or similar laws which generally allow a person to sue us if that person was injured by a legally intoxicated person who was wrongfully served alcoholic beverages at one of our restaurants. The restaurant industry has also been subject to a growing number of claims that the menus and actions of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of certain of their customers. We may also be subject to lawsuits from our employees, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or others alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. For example, in December 2009, we entered into a Consent Decree in settlement of certain litigation brought by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission alleging gender discrimination in promotions to management within the Outback Steakhouse organization, which required us to make a settlement payment of $19.0 million. In addition, during the four-year term of the Consent Decree, we are required to fulfill certain training, record-keeping and reporting requirements and maintain an open access system for restaurant employees to express interest in promotions within the Outback Steakhouse organization, and employ a human resources executive.Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations. In addition, they may generate negative publicity, which could reduce customer traffic and sales. Although we maintain what we believe to be adequate levels of insurance, insurance may not be available at all or in sufficient amounts to cover any liabilities with respect to these or other matters. A judgment or other liability in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims or any adverse publicity resulting from claims could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Our insurance policies may not provide adequate levels of coverage against all claims, and fluctuating insurance requirements and costs could negatively impact our profitability.We are self-insured, or carry insurance programs with specific retention levels or deductibles, for a significant portion of our risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers’ compensation, general liability, liquor liability, employment practices liability, property, health benefits and other insurable risks. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not commercially reasonable to insure. These losses, if they occur, could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, health insurance costs in general have risen significantly over the past few years and are expected to continue to increase. These increases could have a negative impact on our profitability, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully offset the effect of such increases with plan modifications and cost control measures, additional operating efficiencies or the pass-through of such increased costs to our customers or employees.Conflict or terrorism could negatively affect our business.We cannot predict the effects of actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against any foreign state or group located in a foreign state or heightened security requirements on local, regional, national, or international economies or consumer confidence. Such events could negatively affect our business, including by reducing customer traffic or the availability of commodities.If our advertising and marketing programs are unsuccessful in maintaining or driving increased customer traffic or are ineffective in comparison to those of our competitors, our results of operations could be adversely affected.We conduct ongoing promotion-based brand awareness advertising campaigns and customer loyalty programs. If these programs are not successful or conflict with evolving customer preferences, we may not increase or maintain our customer traffic and will incur expenses without the benefit of higher revenues. In addition, if our competitors increase their spending on marketing and advertising programs, or develop more effective campaigns, this could have a negative effect on our brand relevance, customer traffic and results of operations. 32Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.Unfavorable publicity could harm our business by reducing demand for our concepts or specific menu offerings.Our business could be negatively affected by publicity resulting from complaints or litigation, either against us or other restaurant companies, alleging poor food quality, food-borne illness, personal injury, adverse health effects (including obesity) or other concerns. Regardless of the validity of any such allegations, unfavorable publicity relating to any number of restaurants or even a single restaurant could adversely affect public perception of the entire brand.Additionally, unfavorable publicity towards a food product generally could negatively impact our business. For example, publicity regarding health concerns or outbreaks of disease in a food product, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy (also known as “mad cow” disease), could reduce demand for our menu offerings. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business.Consumer reaction to public health issues, such as an outbreak of flu viruses or other diseases, could have an adverse effect on our business.Our business could be harmed if the United States or other countries in which we operate experience an outbreak of flu viruses or other diseases. If a virus is transmitted by human contact, our employees or customers could become infected or could choose or be advised to avoid gathering in public places. This could adversely affect our restaurant traffic, our ability to adequately staff our restaurants, our ability to receive deliveries on a timely basis or our ability to perform functions at the corporate level. Our business could also be negatively affected if mandatory closures, voluntary closures or restrictions on operations are imposed in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or significant health risk may have a material adverse effect on our business.Food safety and food-borne illness concerns throughout the supply chain may have an adverse effect on our business by reducing demand and increasing costs.Food safety issues could be caused by food suppliers or distributors and, as a result, be out of our control. In addition, regardless of the source or cause, any report of food-borne illnesses and other food safety issues including food tampering or contamination at one of our restaurants could adversely affect the reputation of our brands and have a negative impact on our sales. Even instances of food-borne illness, food tampering or food contamination occurring solely at restaurants of our competitors could result in negative publicity about the food service industry generally and adversely impact our sales. The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, resulting in higher costs and lower margins.The food service industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in these preferences and perceptions may lessen the demand for our products, which would reduce sales and harm our business.Food service businesses are affected by changes in consumer tastes and demographic trends. For instance, if prevailing health or dietary preferences cause consumers to avoid steak and other products we offer in favor of foods that are perceived as more healthy, our business and operating results would be harmed.We have a limited number of suppliers for our major products and rely on one custom distribution company for our national distribution program in the U.S. If our suppliers or custom distributor are unable to fulfill their obligations under their contracts or we are unable to develop or maintain relationships with these or new suppliers or distributors, if needed, we could encounter supply shortages and incur higher costs.We have a limited number of suppliers for our major products, such as beef. In 2012, we purchased more than 75% of our beef raw materials from four beef suppliers who represent approximately 85% of the total beef marketplace in the U.S. Due to the nature of our industry, we expect to continue to purchase a substantial amount of our beef from a small number of suppliers. In addition, we use one distribution company to provide distribution services in the U.S. Although we have not experienced significant problems with our suppliers or distributor, if our suppliers or distributor are unable to fulfill their obligations under their contracts, we could encounter supply shortages and incur higher costs.33Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.In addition, if we are unable to maintain current purchasing terms or ensure service availability with our suppliers and distributor, we may lose customers and experience an increase in costs in seeking alternative supplier services. The failure to develop and maintain supplier and distributor relationships and any resulting disruptions to the provision of food and other supplies to our restaurant locations could adversely affect our operating results. Shortages or interruptions in the supply or delivery of fresh food products could adversely affect our operating results.We are dependent on frequent deliveries of fresh food products that meet our specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of fresh food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients, which would adversely affect our operating results.We outsource certain accounting processes to a third-party vendor, which subjects us to many risks that could disrupt our business, increase our costs and negatively impact our internal control processes.In early 2011, we began to outsource certain accounting processes to a third-party vendor. The third-party vendor may not be able to handle the volume of activity or perform the quality of service that we have currently achieved at a cost-effective rate, which could adversely affect our business. The decision to outsource was made based on cost savings initiatives; however, we may not achieve these savings because of unidentified intangible costs and legal and regulatory matters, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the performance of certain business processes in an outsourced capacity could negatively impact our internal control processes.We rely heavily on information technology in our operations and any material failure, weakness, interruption or breach of security could prevent us from effectively operating our business.We rely heavily on information systems across our operations and corporate functions, including point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, payment of obligations, collection of cash, data warehousing to support analytics, finance and accounting systems and other various processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently and effectively manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, maintenance problems, upgrading or transitioning to new platforms, or a breach in security of these systems could result in delays in customer service and reduce efficiency in our operations. Remediation of such problems could result in significant unplanned capital investments.We are also in the process of implementing a finance and accounting system. Large-scale system implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that are capital intensive and can span 12 months or longer. Certain business and financial processes will also require transformation in order to effectively leverage the system’s benefits. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience system usage problems and/or cost overruns during the implementation process, or if associated process changes do not give rise to the benefits that we expect. Additionally, if we do not effectively implement the system as planned or if the system does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.Security breaches of confidential customer information or personal employee information may adversely affect our business.The majority of our restaurant sales are by credit or debit cards. Other restaurants and retailers have experienced security breaches in which credit and debit card information of their customers has been stolen. We also maintain certain personal information regarding our employees. We may in the future become subject to lawsuits or other proceedings for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of our customers’ credit or debit card information or if customer or employee information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately. Any such claim or proceeding, or any adverse publicity resulting from such an event, may have a material adverse effect on our business.34Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.An impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We test goodwill for impairment in the second quarter of each fiscal year and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indication of impairment exists. Factors may include, among others: •a significant decline in our expected future cash flows;•a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate;•unanticipated competition;•the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; and•slower growth rates.Any adverse change in these factors would have a significant impact on the recoverability of these assets and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We compare the carrying value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit. Carrying value is based on the assets and liabilities associated with the operations of that reporting unit. If the carrying value is less than the fair value, no impairment exists. If the carrying value is higher than the fair value, there is an indication of impairment and a second step is required to measure a goodwill impairment loss, if any. We are required to record a non-cash impairment charge if the testing performed indicates that goodwill has been impaired.We evaluate our other intangible assets, primarily the Outback Steakhouse (domestic and international), Carrabba’s Italian Grill, Bonefish Grill, Fleming’s Prime Steakhouse and Wine Bar and Roy’s trademarks or trade names, to determine if they are definite or indefinite-lived. Reaching a determination on useful life requires significant judgments and assumptions regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, other economic factors (such as the stability of the industry, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels), the level of required maintenance expenditures, and the expected lives of other related groups of assets.As with goodwill, we test our indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment in the second quarter of each fiscal year and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. We estimate the fair value of these indefinite-lived intangible assets based on an income valuation model using the relief from royalty method, which requires assumptions related to projected revenues from our annual long-range plan, assumed royalty rates that could be payable if we did not own the assets and a discount rate.During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we did not record any goodwill or material intangible asset impairment charges. However, during the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $58.1 million and $43.7 million, respectively. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired in the future, there could be an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Changes to estimates related to our property, fixtures and equipment and definite-lived intangible assets or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain restaurant locations may cause us to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets, which may adversely affect our results of operations.In accordance with accounting guidance as it relates to the impairment of long-lived assets, we make certain estimates and projections with regard to individual restaurant operations, as well as our overall performance, in connection with our impairment analyses for long-lived assets. When impairment triggers are deemed to exist for any location, the estimated undiscounted future cash flows are compared to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the 35Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.undiscounted cash flows, an impairment charge equal to the difference between the carrying value and the sum of the discounted cash flows is recorded. The projections of future cash flows used in these analyses require the use of judgment and a number of estimates and projections of future operating results. If actual results differ from our estimates, additional charges for asset impairments may be required in the future. If impairment charges are significant, our results of operations could be adversely affected.The possibility of future misstatement exists due to inherent limitations in our control systems, which could adversely affect our business.We cannot be certain that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures will prevent all possible error and fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of error or fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake, which could have an adverse impact on our business.Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles applicable to us.Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change, such as standards relating to leasing. In addition, the SEC has announced a multi-year plan that could ultimately lead to the use of International Financial Reporting Standards by U.S. issuers in their SEC filings. Any such change could have a significant effect on our reported financial results.We are a holding company and rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to fund our operations, which could prevent us from meeting our obligations.We have no direct operations and derive all of our cash flow from our subsidiaries. Because we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments or distributions to fund our operations. Our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiaries is limited by our debt agreements. Our inability to comply with these covenants and the deterioration of the earnings from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us.Risks Related to Our IndebtednessOur substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and expose us to interest rate risk in connection with our variable-rate debt.We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2012, our total indebtedness was approximately $1.5 billion. As of December 31, 2012, we also had approximately $183.8 million in available unused borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility (after giving effect to undrawn letters of credit of approximately $41.2 million).Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: •making it more difficult for us to make payments on indebtedness;•increasing our vulnerability to general economic, industry and competitive conditions;•increasing our cost of borrowing;36Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.•requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;•exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities and commercial mortgage-backed securities loans are at variable rates of interest;•restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, restaurant development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and•limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may not be as highly leveraged.We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities entered into in October 2012 (the “New Facilities”) and the commercial mortgage-backed securities loans entered into in March 2012 (the “2012 CMBS Loan”). If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase.Approximately $1.0 billion of debt outstanding under our New Facilities and approximately $48.7 million of our 2012 CMBS Loan bear interest based on a floating rate index. An increase in these floating rates could cause a material increase in our interest expense.Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business.We are a holding company and conduct our operations through our subsidiaries, certain of which have incurred their own indebtedness. Our subsidiaries’ debt agreements contain various covenants that limit our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiaries through dividends, loans or advances. In addition, certain of our debt agreements limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, make certain acquisitions or investments, incur or permit to exist certain liens, enter into transactions with affiliates or sell our assets to, merge or consolidate with or into, another company. Our debt agreements require us to satisfy certain financial tests and ratios. Our ability to satisfy such tests and ratios may be affected by events outside of our control.If we breach the covenants under our debt agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the agreements to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the New Facilities and the 2012 CMBS Loan could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our assets as collateral under our New Facilities and the 2012 CMBS Loan. If the lenders under the New Facilities and the 2012 CMBS Loan accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient assets to repay them.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and operating lease obligations, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness and operating lease obligations, which may not be successful. If we fail to meet these obligations, we would be in default under our debt agreements and the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under them to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit.Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations and to satisfy our operating lease obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot be certain that we will maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, 37Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or to pay our operating lease obligations. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations and operating lease obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of sufficient operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations or take other actions to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our debt agreements restrict our ability to dispose of assets and how we may use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could otherwise realize from such dispositions and any such proceeds that are realized may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. The failure to meet our debt service obligations or the failure to remain in compliance with the financial covenants under our debt agreements would constitute an event of default under those agreements and the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under them to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Risks Related to Our Common StockWe are a “controlled company” within the meaning of Nasdaq Stock Market Rules (“Nasdaq”), and as a result, we qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.An investor group consisting of funds advised by our Sponsors and two of our Founders controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we qualify as a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance rules of Nasdaq. “Controlled companies” under those rules are companies of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company. Each member of the investor group has filed a Statement of Beneficial Ownership on Schedule 13G with the SEC relating to its respective holdings and the group’s arrangements with respect to disposition of the shares. On this basis, we currently avail ourselves of the “controlled company” exception under the Nasdaq rules and elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including: •the requirement that a majority of our Board of Directors consist of independent Directors;•the requirement that we have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent Directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, or otherwise have Director nominees selected by vote of a majority of the independent directors;•the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent Directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and•the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees.We utilize these exemptions, as we do not currently have a majority of independent Directors and our compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committee do not consist entirely of independent Directors. Accordingly, you do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the Nasdaq corporate governance requirements.The investor group, however, is not subject to any contractual obligation to retain its controlling interest. There can be no assurance as to the period of time during which such group will maintain their ownership of our common stock.38Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.Our stock price is subject to volatility and, as a result, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them.Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for your shares. Since our initial public offering in August 2012 through February 28, 2013, the price of our common stock, as reported by Nasdaq, has ranged from a low of $11.57 on August 8, 2012 to a high of $18.99 on February 1, 2013. The stock market in general has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our common stock is similarly volatile. You may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of your stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects, and could lose part or all of your investment. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those described elsewhere in this filing and others such as: •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results and the performance of our competitors;•publication of research reports by securities analysts about us, our competitors or our industry;•our failure or the failure of our competitors to meet analysts’ projections or guidance that we or our competitors may give to the market;•additions and departures of key personnel;•sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock or of shares held by our Directors, executive officers, Sponsors and/or Founders;•strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy;•the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry;•speculation in the press or investment community, whether or not correct, involving us, our suppliers or our competitors;•changes in accounting principles;•litigation and governmental investigations;•terrorist acts, acts of war or periods of widespread civil unrest;•a food borne illness outbreak;•natural disasters and other calamities; and•changes in general market and economic conditions.As we operate in a single industry, we are especially vulnerable to these factors to the extent that they affect our industry or our products. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation.39Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.There may be sales of a substantial amount of our common stock by our current stockholders, and these sales could cause the price of our common stock to fall.Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise funds through securities offerings in the future.At February 15, 2013, there were 121,439,523 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding. Of these shares, the 18,393,690 shares sold in our initial public offering are eligible for immediate sale in the public market without restriction by persons other than our affiliates. Our existing stockholders were subject to a lock-up agreement restricting sales of our common stock from the time of the offering until February 3, 2013. Many of these holders are subject to our insider trading policy and some can engage in transactions in our common stock only during designated trading windows, which will impact the timing of any sales by such holders.Approximately 78.7% of our issued and outstanding shares are held by investment funds associated with our Sponsors and two of our Founders as of February 15, 2013. Our Sponsors and Founders may require us to register their shares for resale under federal securities laws. Registration of such shares would allow the holders to immediately sell the shares into the public market and shares that are sold pursuant to any such registration statement would become eligible for sale without restriction by persons other than our affiliates. In addition, we registered with the SEC the issuance of shares of common stock pursuant to outstanding options under our 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2007 Equity Plan”) and shares of common stock that are reserved for issuance under our 2012 Incentive Award Plan (the “2012 Equity Plan”).Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our 2012 CMBS Loan documents and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, may depress the trading price of our stock.Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include certain provisions that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or changes in our management, including, among other things: •our Board of Directors is classified into three classes of Directors with only one class subject to election each year;•restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to fill a vacancy on the Board of Directors;•our ability to issue preferred stock with terms that the Board of Directors may determine, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;•the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders;•our Directors may only be removed from the Board of Directors for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors;•the absence of cumulative voting in the election of Directors, which may limit the ability of minority stockholders to elect Directors; and•advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from soliciting proxies to elect a particular slate of Directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.40Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.In addition, the mortgage loan agreement for the 2012 CMBS Loan requires that our Sponsors, our Founders and our management stockholders or other permitted holders either own no less than 51% of our common stock or if they do not, that certain other conditions are satisfied. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the 2012 CMBS Loan documents may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company that is in the best interests of our minority stockholders. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts.Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may affect the ability of an “interested stockholder” to engage in certain business combinations, including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional shares, for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an “interested stockholder.” An “interested stockholder” is defined to include persons owning directly or indirectly 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation. We have elected in our certificate of incorporation not to be subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. However, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that have the same effect as Section 203, except that they provide that our Sponsors and their respective affiliates will not be deemed to be “interested stockholders,” regardless of the percentage of our voting stock owned by them, and accordingly will not be subject to such restrictions.If securities analysts or industry analysts downgrade our stock, publish negative research or reports, or do not publish reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.We expect that the trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business and our industry. If one or more analysts adversely change their recommendation regarding our stock or our competitors’ stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.Our Sponsors and Founders have significant influence over us, including control over decisions that require the approval of stockholders, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control.We are currently controlled by an investor group consisting of funds advised by our Sponsors and two of our Founders. At February 15, 2013, such group beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 78.7% of our outstanding common stock. For as long as such group continues to beneficially own shares of common stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, it will be able to direct the election of all of the members of our Board of Directors and could exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities, the repurchase or redemption of common stock and the payment of dividends. Similarly, the investor group will have the power to determine matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders without the consent of our other stockholders, will be able to prevent or approve a change in our control and could take other actions that might be favorable to the members of the group. Even if the investor group’s ownership falls below 50%, our Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions.Additionally, certain of our Directors are also officers or control persons of our Sponsors. Although these Directors owe a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our stockholders, these individuals also owe fiduciary duties to these other entities and their stockholders, members and limited partners. Because our Sponsors have such interests in other companies and engage in other business activities, certain of our Directors may experience conflicts of interest in allocating their time and resources among our business and these other activities. Two of our Founders also serve as our Directors and, due to their interests in certain transactions with us and our affiliates, they may also experience such conflicts of interest. Furthermore, these individuals could make substantial profits as a result of investment opportunities allocated to entities other than us. As a result, these individuals could pursue transactions that may not be in our best interest, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and your investment.41Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.Because we have no plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.We may retain future earnings, if any, for future operations, expansion and debt repayment and have no current plans to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by covenants of any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including our New Facilities. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, which could make us unable to fund our capital requirements.Our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds through the issuance of new equity securities, debt or a combination of both. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our capital requirements. If we issue new debt securities, the debt holders would have rights senior to common stockholders to make claims on our assets, and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. If we issue additional equity securities, existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future securities offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.42Table of ContentsBLOOMIN’ BRANDS, INC.