Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be impacted by a number of factors which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. 13 Table of Contents Risks related to our business We may not be successful in our efforts to grow. Our continued growth largely depends on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. During fiscal years 2013 and 2012, we opened 13 and ten new stores, respectively. We plan to open 15 new stores and remodel two stores in fiscal year 2014. Delays or failures in opening new stores, or achieving lower than expected sales in new stores, could materially and adversely affect our growth. Our plans for continued expansion could place increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational and administrative resources. For example, our planned expansion will require us to increase the number of people we employ and may require us to upgrade our management information system and our distribution infrastructure. We currently operate a single bulk food repackaging facility and distribution center, which houses our bulk food repackaging operation. In order to support our recent and expected future growth and to maintain the efficient operation of our business, we may need to add additional distribution centers in the future. These increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less efficiently, which could materially and adversely affect our operations, financial performance and ability to grow in the future. Our ability to successfully open new stores is dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to select suitable sites for our new store locations, to negotiate and execute leases, to coordinate the contracting work on our new stores, to identify and recruit store managers, Nutritional Health Coaches and other staff, to secure and manage the inventory necessary for the launch and successful operation of our new stores and to effectively promote and market our new stores. If we are ineffective in performing these activities, then our efforts to open and operate new stores may be unsuccessful or unprofitable, and we may be unable to execute our growth plans. Although we target particular levels of cash-on-cash returns and capital investment for each of our new stores, new stores may not meet these targets. Any store we open may not be profitable or achieve operating results similar to those of our existing stores. There is also the potential that some of our new stores will be located near areas where we have existing stores, thereby reducing the sales of such existing stores. If we are unable to successfully identify market trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales may decrease. We believe our success depends, in substantial part, on our ability to: · anticipate, identify and react to natural and organic grocery and dietary supplement trends and changing consumer preferences in a timely manner; · translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product and service offerings in our stores before our competitors; and · develop and maintain vendor relationships that provide us access to the newest merchandise on reasonable terms. Consumer preferences often change rapidly and without warning, moving from one trend to another among many product or retail concepts. Our performance is impacted by trends regarding natural and organic products, dietary supplements and at-home meal preparation. Consumer preferences towards dietary supplements or natural and organic food products might shift as a result of, among other things, economic conditions, food safety perceptions and the cost of these products. Our store offerings remain composed of natural and organic products and dietary supplements. A change in consumer preferences away from our offerings would have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, negative publicity over the safety of any such items may adversely affect demand for our products and could result in lower customer traffic, sales and results of operations. If we are unable to anticipate and satisfy consumer merchandise preferences in the regions where we operate, our net sales may decrease, and we may be forced to increase markdowns of slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to maintain or improve levels of comparable store sales could cause our stock price to decline. We may not be able to maintain or improve the levels of comparable store sales that we have experienced in the past. In addition, our overall comparable store sales may fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including: · our ability to execute our business strategy effectively, including successfully opening new stores that achieve sales consistent with our existing stores; 14 Table of Contents · consumer preferences; · competition; · economic conditions; · product pricing and availability; · in-store merchandising-related activities; · consumer confidence; · unusually strong initial sales performance by our new stores; and · our ability to source and distribute products efficiently. In addition, many specialty retailers have been unable to sustain high levels of comparable store sales during and after periods of substantial expansion. These factors may cause our comparable store sales results to be materially lower than in recent periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of other factors affect our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance, including: · changes in our merchandising strategy or product mix; · performance of our newer and remodeled stores; · the effectiveness of our inventory management; · the timing and concentration of new store openings, and the related additional human resource requirements and pre-opening and other start-up costs; · the cannibalization of existing store sales by new store openings; · levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; · timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities; · seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions and extreme weather-related disruptions; · actions by our existing or new competitors, including pricing changes; · supply shortages; and · general U.S. economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment. Accordingly, our results for any one fiscal year or quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other year or quarter, and comparable store sales of any particular future period may decrease. In the event of such a decrease, the price of our common stock would likely decline. For more information on our results of operations for the fiscal year 2013, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Disruptions in the worldwide economy may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and could negatively impact our ability to execute our growth strategy. Adverse and uncertain economic conditions may impact demand for the products we sell in our stores. Consumer spending and levels of disposable income, including spending for natural and organic grocery and dietary supplement products that we sell, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wages, interest rates, the 15 Table of Contents availability of credit, tax rates, housing market conditions, consumer confidence, political instability and consumer perception of economic conditions. The outbreak or escalation of war, the occurrence of terrorist acts or other hostilities in or affecting the United States, or concern regarding epidemics in the United States or in international markets could also lead to a decrease in spending by consumers. In the event of an economic slowdown, consumer spending could be adversely affected, and we could experience lower net sales than expected. We could be forced to delay or slow our new store growth plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our suppliers, manufacturers of our private label products, distributors, customers and creditors may suffer. Customers may shift purchases to lower-priced or other perceived value offerings during economic downturns. In particular, customers may reduce the amount of natural and organic products that they purchase and instead purchase conventional offerings, which generally have lower retail prices, at other stores. In addition, consumers may choose to purchase private label products at other stores rather than branded products because they are generally less expensive. Suppliers may become more conservative in response to these conditions and seek to reduce their production. Our results of operations depend upon, among other things, our ability to maintain and increase sales volume with our existing customers, to attract new customers and to provide products that appeal to customers at prices they are willing and able to pay. Prolonged unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets. The markets for natural and organic groceries and dietary supplements are highly competitive with few barriers to entry. Our competition varies by market and includes conventional, natural, gourmet and specialty food markets, mass and discount retailers, warehouse clubs, independent health food stores, dietary supplement retailers, drug stores, farmers markets, mail order and online retailers and multi-level marketers. Many of our competitors are larger, more established and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us, and may be able to adapt to changes in consumer preferences more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, or generate greater brand recognition. As a result, we may lose market share to our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to maintain or increase our operating margins could adversely affect our results of operations and the price of our stock. We intend to continue to increase our operating margins by leveraging efficiencies of scale, improved systems, continued cost discipline, focus on appropriate store labor levels and disciplined product selection. If we are unable to successfully manage the potential difficulties associated with store growth, we may not be able to capture the efficiencies of scale that we expect from expansion. If we are not able to continue to capture efficiencies of scale, improve our systems, continue our cost discipline and maintain appropriate store labor levels and disciplined product selection, we may not be able to achieve our goals with respect to operating margins. In addition, if we do not adequately refine and improve our various ordering, tracking and allocation systems, we may not be able to increase sales and reduce inventory shrink. As a result, our operating margins may stagnate or decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and adversely affect the price of our stock. A reduction in traffic to anchor stores in the shopping areas in close proximity to our stores could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our stores are located in close proximity to shopping areas that may also accommodate other well-known anchor stores. Sales at our stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic generated by the other anchor stores in the shopping areas where our stores are located. Customer traffic may be adversely affected by regional economic downturns, a general downturn in the local area where our store is located, long-term nearby road construction projects, the closing of nearby anchor stores or other nearby stores or the decline of the shopping environment in a particular shopping area. Any of these events would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In response to such events, we may be required to increase markdowns or initiate marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. If we or our third-party suppliers fail to comply with regulatory requirements, or are unable to provide products that meet our specifications, our business and our reputation could suffer. If we or our third-party suppliers, including suppliers of our private label products, fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements or to meet our specifications for quality, we could be required to take costly corrective action and our reputation could suffer. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities, except for our bulk food repackaging facility and distribution center discussed below, and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors to produce our private label branded products, such as vitamins, minerals, dietary supplements, body care products, food products and bottled water. Third-party suppliers of our private label products may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality. Such suppliers may be unable to 16 Table of Contents produce products on a timely basis or in a manner consistent with regulatory requirements. We depend upon our bulk food repackaging facility and distribution center for the majority of our private label bulk food products. We may also be unable to maintain adequate product specification and quality controls at our bulk food repackaging facility and distribution center, or produce products on a timely basis and in a manner consistent with regulatory requirements. In addition, we may be required to find new third-party suppliers of our private label products or to find third-party suppliers to source our bulk foods. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in finding such third-party suppliers that meet our quality guidelines. We, as well as our vendors, are subject to numerous laws and regulations and our compliance with these laws and regulations, as they currently exist or as modified in the future, may increase our costs, limit or eliminate our ability to sell certain products, raise regulatory enforcement risks not present in the past or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a retailer of food and dietary supplements and a seller of many of our own private label products, we are subject to numerous federal and state health and safety laws and regulations. Our suppliers and contract manufacturers are also subject to such laws and regulations. These laws and regulations apply to many aspects of our business, including the manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, advertising, sale, quality and safety of our products, as well as the health and safety of our employees and the protection of the environment. In the U.S., we are subject to regulation by various federal government agencies, including the FDA, the USDA, the FTC, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. We are also subject to the USDA’s Organic Rule, which facilitates interstate commerce and the marketing of organically produced food, and provides assurance to our customers that such products meet consistent, uniform standards. Compliance with the USDA’s Organic Rule also places a significant burden on some of our suppliers, which may cause a disruption in some of our product offerings. In addition, our sales of dietary supplements are regulated under the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994, or DSHEA. DSHEA expressly permits dietary supplements to bear statements describing how a product affects the structure, function and general well-being of the body. However, no statement may expressly or implicitly represent that a dietary supplement will diagnose, cure, mitigate, treat or prevent a disease. If these laws and regulations were violated by our management, associates, suppliers, distributors or vendors, we could be subject to fines, penalties and sanctions, including injunctions against future shipment and sale of products, seizure and confiscation of products, prohibition on the operation of our stores, restitution and disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. In connection with the marketing and advertisement of our products, we could be the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising, including under the auspices of the FTC and the consumer protection statutes of some states. These events could interrupt the marketing and sales of products in our stores, including our private label products, severely damage our brand reputation and public image, increase the cost of products in our stores, result in product recalls or litigation, and impede our ability to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or quality to our stores, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. New or revised government laws and regulations have been adopted in recent years, such as those relating to genetically modified foods, could result in additional compliance costs and the increased use of civil remedies to enforce such laws and regulations. Additionally, increased enforcement by government agencies could result in such costs and remedies, as well as the payment of fines or penalties imposed by such agencies. The Food Safety Modernization Act, or FSMA, passed in January 2011, granted the FDA greater authority over the safety of the national food supply and required the FDA to issue regulations mandating that risk-based preventive controls be observed by the majority of food producers. Regulations and rules issued under FSMA are in varying degrees of finalization. Regardless, the FDA’s authority under FSMA applies to all domestic food facilities and, by way of imported food supplier verification requirements, to all foreign facilities that supply food products. In addition, the FSMA required the FDA to establish science based minimum standards for the safe production and harvesting of produce, required the FDA to identify “high risk” foods and “high risk” facilities and instructed the FDA to set goals for the frequency of FDA inspections of such high risk facilities as well as non-high risk facilities and foreign facilities from which food is imported into the United States. With respect to both food and dietary supplements, the FSMA meaningfully augmented the FDA’s ability to access a producer’s records and a supplier’s records. This increased access could permit the FDA to identify areas of concern it had not previously considered to be problematic either for us or for our suppliers. The FSMA also could result in the implementation of enhanced tracking and tracing of food requirements and, as a result, added recordkeeping burdens upon our suppliers. In addition, under the FSMA, the FDA now has the authority to inspect certifications and therefore evaluate whether foods and ingredients from our suppliers are compliant with the FDA’s regulatory requirements. Such inspections may delay the supply of certain products or result in certain products being unavailable to us for sale in our stores. DSHEA established that no notification to the FDA is required to market a dietary supplement if it contains only dietary ingredients that were present in the U.S. food supply prior to DSHEA’s enactment. However, for a dietary ingredient not present in the food supply prior to DSHEA’s enactment, the manufacturer is required to provide the FDA with information supporting the 17 Table of Contents conclusion that the ingredient will reasonably be expected to be safe at least 75 days before introducing a new dietary ingredient into interstate commerce. As required by the FSMA, the FDA issued draft guidance in July 2011, which attempted to clarify when an ingredient would be considered a “new dietary ingredient,” the evidence needed to document the safety of a new dietary ingredient and appropriate methods for establishing the identity of a new dietary ingredient. The draft guidance has not yet been finalized. If finalized, the draft guidance may cause dietary supplement products available in the market before DSHEA to be classified to include a new dietary ingredient if the dietary supplement product was produced using manufacturing processes different from those used in 1994. Accordingly, the finalization and adoption of the draft FDA guidance or similar guidance could materially adversely affect the availability of dietary supplement products. Furthermore, in recent years, the FDA has been and continues to be aggressive in enforcing its regulations with respect to nutrient content claims (e.g., “low fat,” “good source of,” “calorie free,” etc.), unauthorized “health claims” (claims that characterize the relationship between a food or food ingredient and a disease or health condition) and other claims that impermissibly suggest therapeutic benefits for certain foods or food components. Such FDA enforcement with respect to such promotional practices could result in costly product changes, potential private litigation, bad publicity and loss of consumer goodwill. We are also subject to laws and regulations more generally applicable to retailers, including labor and employment, taxation, zoning and land use. In addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability. We cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, or determine what effect either additional government regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state and local regulatory schemes would have on our business in the future. They could, however, require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional recordkeeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling and scientific substantiation. Any or all of such requirements could have an adverse effect on our operating results. The activities of our Nutritional Health Coaches and our nutrition education services may be impacted by government regulation or our inability to secure adequate liability insurance. Some of the activities of our Nutritional Health Coaches who, among other duties, provide nutrition oriented educational services to our customers, may be subject to state and federal regulation, and oversight by professional organizations. In the past, the FDA has expressed concerns regarding summarized health and nutrition related information that (1) does not, in the FDA’s view, accurately present such information, (2) diverts a consumer’s attention and focus from FDA-required nutrition labeling and information or (3) impermissibly promotes drug-type disease related benefits. Although we have provided training to our Nutritional Health Coaches on relevant regulatory requirements, we cannot control the actions of such individuals, and our Nutritional Health Coaches may not act in accordance with such regulations. If our Nutritional Health Coaches or other employees do not act in accordance with regulatory requirements, we may become subject to penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe we are currently in compliance with relevant regulatory requirements, and we maintain professional liability insurance on behalf of our Nutritional Health Coaches in order to mitigate risks associated with our Nutritional Health Coaches’ nutrition oriented educational activities. However, we cannot predict the nature of future government regulation and oversight, including the potential impact of any such regulation on the services currently provided by our Nutritional Health Coaches. Furthermore, the availability of professional liability insurance or the scope of such coverage may change, or our insurance coverage may prove inadequate, which may adversely impact the ability of our Nutritional Health Coaches to provide some services to our customers. The occurrence of any such developments could negatively impact the perception of our brand, our sales and our ability to attract new customers. Our future business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by reduced availability of organic products. Our ability to ensure a continuing supply of organic products at competitive prices depends on many factors beyond our control, such as the number and size of farms that grow organic crops or raise organic livestock, the vagaries of these farming businesses and our ability to accurately forecast our sourcing requirements. The organic ingredients used in many of the products we sell are vulnerable to adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes, hurricanes and pestilences. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters can lower crop yields and reduce crop size and quality, which in turn could reduce the available supply of, or increase the price of, organic ingredients. Certain products we purchase from our suppliers include organic ingredients sourced offshore, and the availability of such ingredients may be affected by events in other countries. In addition, we and our suppliers compete with other food producers in the procurement of organic ingredients, which are often less plentiful in the open market than conventional ingredients. This competition may increase in the future if consumer demand for organic products increases. If supplies of organic ingredients are reduced or there is greater demand for such ingredients from us and 18 Table of Contents others, we may not be able to obtain sufficient supply on favorable terms, or at all, which could impact our ability to supply products to our stores and may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The organic products we sell rely on independent certification and must comply with the requirements of independent organizations or certification authorities in order to be labeled as such. Certain products we sell in our stores can lose their “organic” certification if a contract manufacturing plant becomes contaminated with non-organic materials or if it is not properly cleaned after a production run, among other issues. The loss of any independent certifications could reduce the availability of organic products that we can sell in our stores and harm our business. Disruptions affecting our significant suppliers, or our relationships with such suppliers, could negatively affect our business. United Natural Foods Inc., or UNFI, is our single largest third-party supplier, accounting for approximately 47% of our total purchases in fiscal year 2013. In addition, approximately 8% of our purchases were made through Albert’s Organics, a subsidiary of UNFI that distributes fresh produce and meat. During fiscal year 2012, we extended our long-term relationship with UNFI as our primary supplier of dry grocery and frozen food products through 2016. Due to this concentration of purchases from a single third-party supplier, the cancellation of our distribution agreement or the disruption, delay or inability of UNFI to deliver product to our stores may materially and adversely affect our operating results and we may be unable to establish alternative distribution channels on reasonable terms or at all. Certain of our vendors use overseas sourcing to varying degrees to manufacture some or all of their products. Any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from such foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, unanticipated political changes, increased customs duties, labor disputes, health epidemics, adverse weather conditions, crop failure, acts of war or terrorism, legal or economic restrictions on overseas suppliers’ ability to produce and deliver products, and natural disasters, could increase our costs and materially harm our operations, business and financial condition. Our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with indirectly sourcing goods from abroad, such as political instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. In addition, requirements imposed by the FSMA compel importers to verify that food products and ingredients produced by a foreign supplier comply with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements enforced by the FDA, which could result in certain products being deemed inadequate for import. The current geographic concentration of our stores creates exposure to local economies, regional downturns or severe weather or catastrophic occurrences. As of September 30, 2013, we have store concentration in Colorado and Texas, operating 31 stores and 12 stores in those states, respectively, or a total of 59.7% of our stores. As a result, our business is currently more susceptible to regional conditions than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors, and we are vulnerable to economic downturns in those regions. Any unforeseen events or circumstances that negatively affect these areas could materially adversely affect our revenues and profitability. These factors include, among other things, changes in demographics, population, competition, consumer preferences, new or revised laws or regulations, fires, floods or other natural disasters in these regions. If we fail to maintain our reputation and the value of our brand, our sales may decline. We believe our continued success depends on our ability to maintain and grow the value of the Natural Grocers by Vitamin Cottage® brand. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brand and reputation will depend largely on the success of our marketing and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Brand value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities, and even isolated incidents can erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation. Our brand could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives, or if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity. Sources of negative publicity may include, among others, social media posts, investment or financial community posts and poor reviews of stores, products, customer service and employment. Our reputation could also suffer from real or perceived issues involving the labeling or marketing of our products as “natural.” Although the FDA and USDA each has issued statements regarding the appropriate use of the word “natural,” there is no single, U.S. government regulated definition of the term “natural” for use in the food industry. The resulting uncertainty has led to consumer confusion, distrust and legal challenges. Plaintiffs have commenced legal actions against a number of food companies that market “natural” products, asserting false, misleading and deceptive advertising and labeling claims, including claims related to genetically modified ingredients. In limited circumstances, the FDA has taken regulatory action against products labeled “natural” but that nonetheless contain synthetic ingredients or components. Should we become subject to similar claims, consumers may avoid purchasing products from us or seek alternatives, even if the basis for the claim is unfounded. Adverse publicity about these matters may discourage consumers from buying our products. The cost of defending against any such claims could be significant. Any loss of confidence on the part of consumers in the truthfulness of our labeling or ingredient claims would be difficult and costly to overcome and may significantly reduce our brand value. Any of these events could adversely affect our reputation and brand and decrease our sales, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Perishable food product losses could materially impact our results of operations. Our stores offer a significant number of perishable products. Our offering of perishable products may result in significant product inventory losses in the event of extended power or other utility outages, natural disasters or other catastrophic occurrences. The decision by certain of our suppliers to distribute their specialty products through other retail distribution channels could negatively impact our revenue from the sale of such products. Some of the specialty retail products that we sell in our stores are not generally available through other retail distribution channels such as drug stores, conventional grocery stores or mass merchandisers. In the future, our suppliers could decide to distribute such products through other retail distribution channels, allowing more of our competitors to offer these products, and adversely affecting the desirability of these products to our core customers, which could negatively impact our revenues. Our ability to operate our business effectively could be impaired if we fail to retain or attract key personnel or are unable to attract, train and retain qualified employees. Our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization. This execution requires an experienced and talented management team. The loss of any member of our senior management team, particularly Kemper Isely or Zephyr Isely, our Co-Presidents since 1998, or Heather Isely or Elizabeth Isely, our Executive Vice Presidents since 1998, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business, our financial condition and results of operations, unless, and until, we are able to find a qualified replacement. Furthermore, our ability to manage our new store growth will require us to attract, motivate and retain qualified managers, Nutritional Health Coaches and store associates who understand and appreciate our culture and are able to represent our brand effectively in our stores. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may be unable to attract, assimilate and retain the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. Any significant interruption in the operations of our bulk food repackaging facility and distribution center could disrupt our ability to deliver our merchandise in a timely manner. Any significant interruption in the operation of our bulk food repackaging and distribution center infrastructure, such as disruptions due to fire, severe weather or other catastrophic events, power outages, labor disagreements, or shipping problems, could adversely impact our ability to receive and process orders, and distribute products to our stores. Such interruptions could result in lost sales, cancelled sales and a loss of customer loyalty to our brand. While we maintain business interruption and property insurance, if the operation of our distribution facility were interrupted for any reason causing delays in shipment of merchandise to our stores, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover losses we experience. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A widespread health epidemic could materially impact our business. Our business could be severely impacted by a widespread regional, national or global health epidemic. A widespread health epidemic may cause customers to avoid public gathering places such as our stores or otherwise change their shopping behaviors. Additionally, a widespread health epidemic could adversely impact our business by disrupting production and delivery of products to our stores and by impacting our ability to appropriately staff our stores. Union activity at third-party transportation companies or labor organizing activities among our employees could disrupt our operations and harm our business. Independent third-party transportation companies deliver the majority of our merchandise to our stores and to our customers. Some of these third parties employ personnel represented by labor unions. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees of these third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise, which could result in cancelled sales, a loss of loyalty to our stores and excess inventory. While all of our employees are currently non-union, attempts on the part of our employees to organize labor or union activities among our employees could result in work slowdowns, reducing the efficiency of our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our management has limited experience managing a public company. We are subject to various regulatory requirements, including those of the SEC and The New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE. These requirements include, among other things, record keeping, financial reporting and corporate governance rules and regulations. Our management has been managing a public company since the Company’s initial public offering, or IPO, in fiscal year 2012, and therefore its overall experience in managing a public company remains limited. Our public company reporting obligations 20 Table of Contents have increased, and continue to impose, demands on our internal infrastructure and resources. Although we have hired additional staff in order to comply with these requirements, we may be unable to retain the staff necessary to comply with these requirements in the future. In certain continuing respects, we rely on outside consultants and professionals to supplement our capacity to meet these requirements. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to fulfill our public company obligations. Future events could result in impairment of long-lived assets, which may result in charges that adversely affect our results of operations and capitalization. Our total assets included long-lived assets totaling $99.8 million at September 30, 2013. Long-lived assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Our impairment evaluations require use of financial estimates of future cash flows. Application of alternative assumptions could produce significantly different results. We may be required to recognize impairments of long-lived assets based on future economic factors such as unfavorable changes in estimated future undiscounted cash flows of an asset group. We have significant lease obligations, which may require us to continue paying rent for store locations that we no longer operate. Our stores, bulk food repackaging facility and distribution center and administrative facility are leased. We are subject to risks associated with our current and future real estate leases. Our costs could increase because of changes in the real estate markets and supply or demand for real estate sites. We generally cannot cancel our leases, so if we decide to close or relocate a location, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including paying the base rent for the remaining lease term. As each lease expires, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or any terms at all and may not be able to find replacement locations that will provide for the same success as current store locations. Of the current leases for our stores, none expires in fiscal year 2014, two expire in fiscal year 2015, five expire in fiscal year 2016, one expires in fiscal year 2017, and the remainder expire between fiscal years 2018 and 2034. Any material failure of our information systems could negatively impact our operations. We are increasingly dependent on a variety of information systems to effectively manage the operations of our growing store base, including our supply chain. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed, including the failure of our vendors to maintain and make available software or the failure of our warehouse management software system to operate as expected or to support our distribution facility, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any material failure or slowdown of our systems could disrupt our ability to track, record and analyze our merchandise, and could negatively impact our operations, including, among other things, our ability to process and receive shipments of goods and process financial and credit card transactions. Any security breaches of our information systems could disrupt our operational systems, resulting in a slowdown of our normal business activities or limitations on our ability to process credit card transactions. Moreover, leaks of proprietary information, including leaks of customers’ private data, could weaken customer confidence in our company and our ability to compete in the food retail marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, changes in technology could cause our information systems to become obsolete and it may be necessary to incur additional costs to upgrade such systems, and if our information systems prove inadequate to handle our growth, we could lose customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also vulnerable to certain risks and uncertainties associated with our websites, including changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime and other technical failures, security breaches and consumer privacy concerns. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks could damage our reputation. Claims under our self-insurance program may differ from our estimates, which could materially impact our results of operations. We currently maintain insurance customary for businesses of our size and type using a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for the potential liabilities for workers’ compensation, general liability, professional liability, property insurance, director and officers’ liability insurance, vehicle liability and employee health-care benefits. There are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by the Company are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Our results could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses related to such plans if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete and the value of our brand could be harmed. We believe that our trademarks or service marks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and similar intellectual property are important to our success. In particular, we believe that the Natural Grocers by Vitamin Cottage name is important to our business, as well as to the implementation of our growth strategy. Our principal intellectual property rights include registered marks on Vitamin Cottage®, Natural Grocers by Vitamin Cottage® and Vitamin Cottage Natural Grocers®, copyrights of our website content, rights to our domain names including www.vitamincottage.com and www.naturalgrocers.com, and trade secrets and know-how with respect to our product sourcing, sales and marketing and other aspects of our business. As such, we rely on trademark or service mark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees and certain of our consultants, suppliers and others to protect our proprietary rights. If we are unable to defend or protect or preserve the value of our trademarks or service marks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. Although several of our brand names are registered in the United States, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or service mark or trade name protection and the costs required to protect our trademarks or service marks and trade names may be substantial. In addition, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks or service marks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. Therefore, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks or service marks and other proprietary rights. Additionally, other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute our brand in the marketplace. Third parties could also bring additional intellectual property infringement suits against us from time to time to challenge our intellectual property rights. Any such infringement of our intellectual property rights by others, or claims by third parties against us, would likely result in a commitment of our time and resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. If we were to receive an adverse judgment in such a matter, we could suffer further dilution of our trademarks or service marks and other rights, which could harm our ability to compete as well as our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our products could cause unexpected side effects, illness, injury or death that could result in their discontinuance or expose us to lawsuits, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation. There is substantial governmental scrutiny of and public awareness regarding food safety. We believe that many customers hold us to a higher quality standard than other retailers. Unexpected side effects, illness, injury or death caused by our products could result in the discontinuance of sales of our products or prevent us from achieving market acceptance of the affected products. Such side effects, illnesses, injuries and death could also expose us to product liability or negligence lawsuits. Any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. Any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. Further, we may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment in which case our creditors could levy against our assets. The real or perceived sale of contaminated or harmful products would cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products, including negative publicity in social media, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, or result in our insolvency. Increase in the cost of raw materials could hurt our sales and profitability. Many of the raw agricultural commodities used to make our private label products, including our bulk repackaged products, further increased globally during fiscal year 2013, and are generally subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, energy prices, price inflation and general economic conditions and other unpredictable factors. An increase in the demand for, or the price of, raw agricultural commodities could cause our vendors to seek price increases from us, or may cause the retail price we charge for certain products to increase, in turn decreasing our sales of such products. As a result, our profitability may be adversely impacted through reduced gross margins or a decline in the number and average size of customer transactions. The cost of construction materials we use to build and remodel our stores is also subject to significant price volatility based on market and economic conditions. Higher construction material prices would increase the capital expenditures needed to construct a new store or remodel an existing store and, as a result, could increase the rent payable by the Company under its leases. Energy costs are a significant component of our operating expenses and increasing energy costs, unless offset by more efficient usage or other operational responses, may impact our profitability. We utilize natural gas, water, sewer and electricity in our stores and use gasoline and diesel in our trucks that deliver products to our stores. Increases in energy costs, whether driven by increased demand, decreased or disrupted supply or an anticipation of any 22 Table of Contents such events will increase the costs of operating our stores. Our shipping costs have also increased due to fuel and freight prices, and these costs may continue to increase. We may not be able to recover these rising costs through increased prices charged to our customers, and any increased prices may exacerbate the risk of customers choosing lower-cost alternatives. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in attempts to protect against these increases in energy costs through long-term energy contracts, improved energy procurement, improved efficiency and other operational improvements, the overall costs of operating our stores will increase which would impact our profitability, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in certain costs affecting our marketing, advertising and promotions may adversely impact our ability to advertise effectively and reduce our profitability. Postal rate increases, and increasing paper and printing costs affect the cost of our promotional mailings. Previous changes in postal rates increased the cost of our Health Hotline® mailings and previous increases in paper and printing costs increased the cost of producing our Health Hotline newspaper inserts. In response to any future increase in mailing costs, we may consider reducing the number and size of certain promotional pieces. In addition, we rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. We are not party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. We are also affected by increases in billboard costs and the cost of producing and broadcasting our television, radio and internet advertising pieces. Previous changes in broadcast rates resulted in an increase in the cost of our television commercials. In response to any future increase in broadcast costs, we may consider reducing the frequency, placement and length of certain promotional pieces. We are not party to any long-term contracts for broadcast time. Future increases in costs affecting our marketing, advertising and promotions could adversely impact our ability to advertise effectively and our profitability. Our credit facility could limit our operational flexibility. On December 12, 2013, we entered into an amended and restated credit facility. Our amended credit facility allows us to borrow up to $25.0 million. As of September 30, 2013, no borrowings were outstanding under our credit facility. Our amended credit facility is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets and contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. These covenants, among other things, restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, engage in certain merger, consolidation or asset sale transactions, make certain investments, make loans, advances, guarantees or acquisitions, engage in certain transactions with affiliates or permit certain sale and leaseback transactions without lender consent. We are also required to maintain certain financial ratios under our amended credit agreement, including a consolidated leverage ratio and a consolidated fixed charge ratio. These covenants could restrict our operational flexibility, including our ability to open stores, and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lender thereunder to require repayment. We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital. We have depended primarily on cash flow from our operations, borrowings from our credit facility and a portion of the net proceeds from our IPO to fund our business and execute on our growth strategy. From time to time, we may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing in order to fund capital expenditures or to provide additional working capital for our business, or to fund the execution of our growth strategy. In addition, changes in economic conditions, or market conditions requiring a shift in our business model could result in our need for additional debt or equity financing. We cannot now predict the timing or amount of any such capital requirements. We do not know whether we will be able to take any of such actions on a timely basis, on terms satisfactory to us or at all. If financing is not available to us on satisfactory terms, or at all, we may be unable to operate or expand our business or to successfully pursue our growth strategy, and our results of operations may suffer. Pursuant to the NYSE Listed Company Manual, in order to rely on the “controlled company” corporate governance exemptions, the Isely family is, or entities controlled by the Isely family are, required to retain more than 50% of the total voting power of our common shares for the election of directors. As long as we intend to remain a “controlled company,” these voting requirements will constrain our ability to issue additional shares of our common stock in the future. Our political advocacy activities may reduce our customer count and sales. We believe our ability to profitably operate our business depends, in part, upon our access to natural and organic products and dietary supplements. We attempt to protect our interest in this access through ongoing and proactive political advocacy campaigns, including participation in education programs, petitions, letter writing, phone calls, policy conferences, advisory boards, industry groups, public commentary and meetings with trade groups, office holders and regulators. We may publicly ally with and support trade groups, political candidates, government officials and regulators who support a particular policy we consider important to our business and in alignment with our principles regarding access to natural and organic products and dietary supplements. We may, from time to time, publicly oppose other trade groups, candidates, officeholders and regulators whose point of view we believe will harm our business, or impede access to nutritious food and dietary supplements. In some cases, we may lose customers and sales 23 Table of Contents because our political advocacy activities are perceived to be contrary to those customers’ points of view, political affiliations, political beliefs or voting preferences. Effective tax rate changes and results of examinations by taxing authorities could materially impact our results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by our earnings mix being lower than historical results in states where we have lower statutory rates and higher than historical results in states where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to periodic audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, and other state and local taxing authorities. Our results could be materially impacted by the determinations and expenses related to proceedings by the IRS and other state and local taxing authorities. Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting and could harm our ability to manage our expenses. Our anticipated growth, and continuing reporting obligations as a public company, are placing a continuing and considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. In addition, as a public company, we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, so that our management can periodically certify the effectiveness of such controls. As an “emerging growth company,” we have opted to take advantage of certain exemptions contained in the JOBS Act, and as a result, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act. We expect that we will remain an “emerging growth company” until the earliest of (a) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our IPO on July 25, 2012, (b) the last day of our fiscal year in which we have annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more, (c) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt, or (d) the date on which we are deemed to be a “large accelerated filer,” which will occur at such time as we have (1) an aggregate worldwide market value of common equity securities held by non-affiliates of $700 million or more as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, (2) been required to file annual, quarterly and current reports under the Exchange Act for a period of at least 12 calendar months and (3) filed at least one annual report pursuant to the Exchange Act. As a result, we may qualify as an “emerging growth company” until as late as September 30, 2017. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. If our senior management is unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, or to certify the effectiveness of such controls, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an unqualified opinion on management’s assessment and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. We are an “emerging growth company” and, although we do not now believe that investors have found our common stock less attractive since our IPO as a result, we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors in the future. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting and other requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies.” For so long as we are an “emerging growth company,” we will, among other things: · not be required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of section 404(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley; · not be required to hold a nonbinding advisory stockholder vote on executive compensation pursuant to Section 14A(a) of the Exchange Act; · not be required to seek stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved pursuant to Section 14A(b) of the Exchange Act; · be exempt from any rule adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplemental auditor discussion and analysis; and · be subject to reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. 24 Table of Contents Although we do not now believe that investors have found our common stock less attractive since our IPO because we rely on certain of these exemptions, we cannot predict if investors may in the future view our common stock less favorably as a result of our “emerging growth company” status. If some investors in the future find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an “emerging growth company” can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act, for complying with new or revised accounting standards. An “emerging growth company” can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we chose to “opt out” of such extended transition period, and as a result, we have and will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. Risks related to our stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile, and you may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price or at all. The market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate significantly from time to time in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including those described under “—Risks related to our business” and the following: · differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors; · fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole; · changes in our earnings guidance; · a change in the recommendation by any research analyst that follows our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; · investor perceptions of our prospects and the prospects of the grocery and dietary supplement industries; · the performance of our key vendors; · announcements by us, our vendors or our competitors regarding performance, strategy, significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · introductions of new product or new pricing policies by us or our competitors; · failure to recruit or retain key personnel; and · the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage for our common stock. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market price of equity securities. Our current principal stockholders have significant influence over us, and they could delay, deter or prevent a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take action with which you might not agree. Members of the Isely family and certain persons, entities and accounts subject to a stockholders agreement relating to voting and limitations on the sale of shares, own or control 57.6% of our common stock. Due to their holdings of common stock, members of the Isely family are able to continue to determine the outcome of virtually all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election of directors, an amendment of our certificate of incorporation (except when a class vote is required by law), any merger or consolidation requiring common stockholder approval, and a sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets. Members of the Isely family have the ability to prevent change-in-control transactions as long as they maintain voting control of the Company. In 25 Table of Contents addition, members of the Isely family and trusts controlled by them entered into a stockholders agreement by which they agreed to aggregate their voting power with regard to the election of directors. In addition, because these holders have the ability to elect all of our directors, they are able to control our policies and operations, including the appointment of management, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the payments of dividends on our common stock and entering into extraordinary transactions, and their interests may not in all cases be aligned with your interests. A substantial number of shares of our common stock are eligible for sale, and their sale could adversely affect our stock price and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. If certain of our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that certain of our stockholders intend to sell, in the public market, substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and price we deem appropriate. As of December 9, 2013 we had a total of 22,442,389 shares of common stock outstanding. Of those, the 8,214,285 shares of common stock issued in the IPO and the 226,341 shares that as of December 9, 2013 had been issued in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units issued under the 2012 Omnibus Incentive Plan, are registered and freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act. The Company is aware that 34,947 shares have been sold, and 419,704 shares could be sold, in exempt transactions. Up to approximately 13,547,112 additional shares of common stock could be sold, subject to compliance with the requirements of the Securities Act and the stockholders agreement among members of the Isely family and certain persons, entities and accounts. The market price of our common stock could drop significantly if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. Also, in the future, we may issue shares of our common stock as a result of the vesting of up to 85,121 additional restricted stock units or in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then outstanding shares of our common stock. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future and capital appreciation may be your sole source of potential gain. We anticipate that we will retain our future earnings, for the foreseeable future, in order to fund our growth strategy and for general corporate purposes. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors, (our board), and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, legal requirements, restrictions in our debt agreements and other factors our board deems relevant. As a result, we can make no assurance that we will pay cash dividends to our stockholders in the future. Capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we may lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our stock, or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if a sale of the Company would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Several provisions of our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: · a staggered, or classified, board of directors; · authorizing our board to issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval; 26 Table of Contents · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; · prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent after the Isely family ceases to own more than 50% of the total voting power of our shares; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of our common stockholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change-in-control premium. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE Listed Company Manual, and, as a result, rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of other companies. The Isely family, or entities controlled by the Isely family, own more than 50% of the total voting power of our common shares for the election of directors, and therefore, we are considered a “controlled company” under the corporate governance standards set forth in the NYSE Listed Company Manual. As a “controlled company,” certain exemptions under NYSE standards free us from the obligation to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, including the requirements: · that a majority of our board consists of “independent directors,” as defined under the rules of the NYSE; · that our director nominees be selected, or recommended for our boards’ selection, either (1) by a majority of independent directors in a vote by independent directors, pursuant to a nominations process adopted by a board resolution, or (2) by a nominating and governance committee composed solely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the nominations process; and · that the compensation of our executive officers be determined, or recommended to the board for determination, by a majority of independent directors in a vote by independent directors, or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors. Accordingly, for so long as we are a “controlled company,” you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Our costs have increased significantly as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to complying with public company regulations. Prior to our IPO in fiscal year 2012, we operated our business as a private company. As a public company, we have incurred and will further incur additional legal, accounting, compliance and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We are obligated to file with the SEC annual and quarterly reports and other reports that are specified in Section 13 and other sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In addition, we have, and may in the future, become subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including certain requirements of the NYSE, and certain provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (Dodd-Frank), which are imposing or will impose significant compliance obligations upon us. Sarbanes-Oxley and Dodd-Frank, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NYSE, have imposed enhanced corporate governance and disclosure practices for public companies. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted and are likely to continue to result in increased administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. These changes have required and are likely to continue to require a significant commitment of additional capital and resources. We may not be successful in implementing these requirements, and implementing them could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we fail to implement the requirements with respect to our internal accounting and audit functions, our ability to report our operating results on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired. If we do not implement such requirements in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the NYSE. Any such action could harm our reputation and the confidence of investors and customers in our company and materially adversely affect our business and cause our share price to fall. 27 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 