Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this report, when deciding whether to invest in us. Limited partner interests are inherently different from capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this report could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In such event, we may be unable to make distributions to our unitholders and the trading price of our common units could decline. Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our General Partner, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution, or any distribution, to holders of our common and subordinated units. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: •the volume of natural gas we gather, process, treat, compress and transport and the volume of NGLs we fractionate and transport; •the level of production of oil and natural gas and the resultant market prices of oil, natural gas and NGLs; •damage to pipelines, facilities, plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism including damage to third party pipelines or facilities upon which we rely for transportation and processing services; •outages at the processing or NGL fractionation facilities owned by us or third parties caused by mechanical failure and maintenance, construction and other similar activities; •leaks or accidental releases of products or other materials into the environment, whether as a result of human error or otherwise; •prevailing economic and market conditions; •realized prices received for natural gas and NGLs; •fixed-fees associated with our services; •the market prices of natural gas and NGLs relative to one another, which affects our processing margins; •capacity charges and volumetric fees associated with our transportation services; •the level of competition from other midstream energy companies in our geographic markets; •the level of our operating, maintenance and general and administrative costs; and •regulatory action affecting the supply of, or demand for, natural gas, the maximum transportation rates we can charge on our pipelines, our existing contracts, our operating costs or our operating flexibility. 29 Table of Contents In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distributions will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •the level of capital expenditures we make; •the cost of acquisitions, if any; •our debt service requirements and other liabilities; •fluctuations in our working capital needs; •our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; •restrictions contained in our debt agreements; •the amount of cash reserves established by our General Partner; and •other business risks affecting our cash levels. Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells in our areas of operation, our success depends in part on producers replacing declining production and also on our ability to obtain new sources of natural gas. Any decrease in the volumes of natural gas that we gather, compress, process, treat or transport or in the volumes of NGLs that we fractionate or transport could adversely affect our business and operating results. The natural gas volumes that support our business depend on the level of production from natural gas wells connected to our systems, which may be less than expected and will naturally decline over time. As a result, our cash flows associated with these wells also will decline over time. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our systems, we must obtain new sources of natural gas. The primary factors affecting our ability to obtain non-dedicated sources of natural gas include (i) the level of successful drilling activity in our areas of operation, (ii) our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells and (iii) our ability to compete successfully for volumes from sources connected to other pipelines. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to our systems or the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, we have no control over producers or their drilling or production decisions, which are affected by, among other things: •the availability and cost of capital; •prevailing and projected oil, natural gas and NGL prices; •demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs; •levels of reserves; •geological considerations; •environmental or other governmental regulations, including the availability of drilling permits and the regulation of hydraulic fracturing; and •the availability of drilling rigs and other costs of production and equipment. Fluctuations in energy prices can also greatly affect the development of oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling and production activity generally decreases as natural gas, oil or NGL prices decrease. Declines in natural gas, oil or NGL prices could have a negative impact on exploration, development and production activity, and sustained low prices could lead to a material decrease in such activity. Sustained reductions in exploration or production activity in our areas of operation could lead to reduced utilization of our assets. 30 Table of Contents Because of these and other factors, even if natural gas and liquid reserves are known to exist in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If reductions in drilling activity result in our inability to maintain the current levels of throughput on our systems, those reductions could reduce our revenue and cash flow and adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas and liquid reserves connected to our gathering and transportation systems on a regular or ongoing basis; therefore, in the future, volumes of natural gas on our systems could be less than we anticipate. We do not obtain independent evaluations of the natural gas reserves connected to our systems on a regular or ongoing basis. Accordingly, we do not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to some or all of our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our gathering and transportation systems are less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our success depends on drilling activity and our ability to attract and maintain customers in a limited number of geographic areas. A significant portion of our assets is located in the Eagle Ford shale area, and we intend to focus our future capital expenditures largely on developing our business in this area. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are significantly dependent upon the demand for our services in this area. Due to our focus on this area, an adverse development in natural gas production from this area would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we spread expenditures more evenly over a wider geographic area. Natural gas and NGL prices are volatile, and a change in these prices in absolute terms, or an adverse change in the prices of natural gas and NGLs relative to one another, could adversely affect our gross operating margin and cash flow and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to risks due to frequent and often substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas, NGLs and other commodities have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. Our future cash flow may be materially adversely affected if we experience significant, prolonged pricing deterioration. The markets for and prices of natural gas, NGLs and other commodities depend on factors that are beyond our control. These factors include the supply of and demand for these commodities, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: •worldwide economic conditions; •worldwide political events, including actions taken by foreign oil and natural gas producing nations; •worldwide weather events and conditions, including natural disasters and seasonal changes; •the levels of domestic production and consumer demand; •the availability of transportation systems with adequate capacity; •the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials; •the price and availability of alternative fuels; •the effect of energy conservation measures; 31 Table of Contents •the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; •fluctuations in demand from electric power generators and industrial customers; and •the anticipated future prices of oil, natural gas, NGLs and other commodities. Our exposure to direct commodity price risk and volatility in costs to market products may vary. We currently generate a large portion of our revenues pursuant to fixed-fee contracts under which we are paid based on the volumes of natural gas that we gather, process, treat, compress and transport and the volumes of NGLs we fractionate and transport, rather than the value of the underlying natural gas or NGLs. Consequently, this portion of our existing operations and cash flows have limited direct exposure to commodity price levels. Although we intend to enter into similar fixed-fee contracts with new customers in the future, our efforts to obtain such contractual terms may not be successful. We may acquire or develop additional midstream assets or change the arrangements under which we process our volumes. These changes may also impact our transportation and gathering costs in a manner that increases our exposure to commodity price risk. Future exposure to the volatility of oil and natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions. In addition, another large portion of our revenues is generated pursuant to fixed-spread contracts under which we strive to buy and sell equal volumes of natural gas and NGLs at prices based upon the same index price of the commodity. Our ability to do this is based upon a number of factors, including willingness of customers to accept the same index as a basis, physical differences in geography, product specifications, and ability to market products at the anticipated differential from the pricing index. Unexpected volume changes due to production variability or to gathering, plant or pipeline system disruptions may increase our exposure to commodity price movements. We sell processed natural gas to third parties at plant tailgates, pipeline pooling points or at inlet meters to the sites of industrial and utility customers. These sales may be interrupted by disruptions to volumes anywhere along the system. We attempt to balance sales with volumes supplied, but unexpected volume variations due to production variability or to gathering, plant or pipeline system disruptions may expose us to volume imbalances which, in conjunction with movements in commodity prices, could materially impact our income from operations and cash flow. We may not successfully balance our purchases and sales of natural gas, which would increase our exposure to commodity price risks. We purchase from producers and other suppliers a substantial amount of the natural gas that flows through our pipelines and processing facilities for sale to third parties, including natural gas marketers and other purchasers. We are exposed to fluctuations in the price of natural gas through volumes sold pursuant to commodity-sensitive arrangements and, to a lesser extent, through volumes sold pursuant to our fixed-spread contracts. In order to mitigate our direct commodity price exposure, we typically attempt to balance our natural gas sales with our natural gas purchases on an aggregate basis across all of our systems. We may not be successful in balancing our purchases and sales, and as such may become exposed to fluctuations in the price of natural gas. Our overall net position with respect to natural gas can change over time and our exposure to fluctuations in natural gas prices could materially increase, which in turn could result in increased volatility in our revenue, gross operating margin and cash flows. Although we enter into back-to-back purchases and sales of natural gas in our fixed-spread contracts in which we purchase natural gas from producers or suppliers at receipt points on our systems and simultaneously sell a similar volume of natural gas at delivery points on our systems, we may not 32 Table of Contents be able to mitigate all exposure to commodity price risks. Any of these actions could cause our purchases and sales to become unbalanced. If our purchases and sales are unbalanced, we will face increased exposure to commodity price risks, which in turn could result in increased volatility in our revenue, gross operating margin and cash flows. To the extent that we are exposed to intra-month commodity price fluctuations, we enter into monthly swing swaps. Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results. We compete with other similarly sized midstream companies in our areas of operation. Some of our competitors are large companies that have greater financial, managerial and other resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors have assets in closer proximity to natural gas supplies and have available idle capacity in existing assets that would not require new capital investments for use. Our competitors may expand or construct gathering, compression, treating, processing or transportation systems or NGL fractionation facilities that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers may develop their own gathering, compression, treating, processing or transportation systems or NGL fractionation facilities in lieu of using ours. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flow could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our gathering, processing and transportation contracts subject us to renewal risks. We gather, purchase, process, treat, compress, transport and sell most of the natural gas and NGLs on our systems under contracts with terms of various durations. As these contracts expire, we may have to negotiate extensions or renewals with existing suppliers and customers or enter into new contracts with other suppliers and customers. We may be unable to obtain new contracts on favorable commercial terms, if at all. We also may be unable to maintain the economic structure of a particular contract with an existing customer or the overall mix of our contract portfolio. To the extent we are unable to renew our existing contracts on terms that are favorable to us or successfully manage our overall contract mix over time, our revenue, gross operating margin and cash flows could decline and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on a relatively limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of, or material nonpayment or nonperformance by, any one or more of these customers could adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. A significant percentage of our revenue is attributable to a relatively limited number of customers. Our top ten customers accounted for 65.5% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012. We have gathering, processing and/or transportation and/or sales contracts with each of these customers of varying duration and commercial terms. If we are unable to renew our contracts with one or more of these customers on favorable terms, we may not be able to replace any of these customers in a timely fashion, on favorable terms or at all. In addition, some of our customers may have material financial and liquidity issues or may, as a result of operational incidents or other events, be disproportionately affected as compared to larger, better capitalized companies. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by any of our key customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross operating margin and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. In any of these situations, our revenue and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders may be adversely affected. We expect our exposure to concentrated risk of non-payment or non-performance to continue as long as we remain substantially dependent on a relatively limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. 33 Table of Contents Two customers, Formosa and Sherwin accounted for 24.3% and 11.0%, respectively of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012. We have a contract to sell to Formosa natural gas that is supplied to us by our producers for processing at its facility. We then share in the value stream created by Formosa's processing plant. The contract that enables us to use Formosa's processing facility will expire on May 31, 2013. If we are unable to access Formosa's processing facility prior to May 2013, we expect to have the ability to take the same natural gas volume from our producers and process it at one of our own facilities. If we do not have the ability to process this level of natural gas volume, it may have an adverse effect on our revenue, cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. If third-party pipelines or other midstream facilities interconnected to our gathering or transportation systems become partially or fully unavailable, or if the volumes we gather or transport do not meet the natural gas and NGL quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, our gross operating margin and cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Our natural gas gathering and transportation pipelines, NGL pipelines and processing facilities connect to other pipelines or facilities owned and operated by unaffiliated third parties, such as Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company, Florida Gas Transmission Company, LLC, Gulf South Pipeline Company, LP, Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP, Southern Natural Gas Company, Energy Transfer Partners, L.P., Seadrift Pipeline Corporation and others. The continuing operation of such third-party pipelines, processing plants and other midstream facilities is not within our control. These pipelines, plants and other midstream facilities may become unavailable because of testing, turnarounds, line repair, reduced operating pressure, lack of operating capacity, regulatory requirements, curtailments of receipt or deliveries due to insufficient capacity or because of damage from natural disasters or other operational hazards. In addition, if the costs to us to access and transport on these third-party pipelines significantly increase, our profitability could be reduced. If any such increase in costs occurred, if any of these pipelines or other midstream facilities become unable to receive, transport or process natural gas, or if the volumes we gather or transport do not meet the natural gas quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, our gross operating margin and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Significant portions of our pipeline systems and processing plants have been in service for several decades and we have a limited ownership history with respect to all of our assets. There could be unknown events or conditions or increased maintenance or repair expenses and downtime associated with our pipelines and processing and treating plants that could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Significant portions of our pipeline systems and processing plants have been in service for many decades. Our executive management team has a limited history of operating our assets. There may be historical occurrences or latent issues regarding our pipeline systems that our executive management team may be unaware of and that may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The age and condition of our pipeline systems could also result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures, and any downtime associated with increased maintenance and repair activities could materially reduce our revenue. Any significant increase in maintenance and repair expenditures or loss of revenue due to the age or condition of our pipeline systems could adversely affect our business and results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 34 Table of Contents Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not adequately insured or if we fail to recover all anticipated insurance proceeds for significant accidents or events for which we are insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in the gathering, compressing, treating, processing and transportation of natural gas and the fractionation and transportation of NGLs, including: •damage to pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters, acts of terrorism and actions by third parties; •inadvertent damage from construction, vehicles, farm and utility equipment; •leaks of natural gas and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas as a result of human error, the malfunction of equipment or facilities; •ruptures, fires and explosions; and •other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. These risks may also result in curtailment or suspension of our operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent in our business. In addition, although we are insured for environmental pollution resulting from environmental accidents that occur on a sudden and accidental basis, we may not be insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, some of which may result in toxic tort claims. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may substantially increase. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Additionally, we may be unable to recover from prior owners of our assets, pursuant to our indemnification rights, for potential environmental liabilities. We intend to grow our business in part by seeking strategic acquisition opportunities. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from third parties, our future growth will be affected, and the acquisitions we do make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. Our ability to grow is affected, in part, by our ability to make acquisitions that increase our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. The acquisition component of our strategy is based, in large part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of midstream energy assets by industry participants. A material decrease in such divestitures would limit our opportunities for future acquisitions and could adversely affect our ability to grow our operations and increase our cash distributions to our unitholders. If we are unable to make accretive acquisitions from third parties, whether because we are (i) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, (ii) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms because our amended Credit Facility restricts us from making acquisitions or (iii) outbid by competitors or for any other reason, then our future growth and ability to increase cash distributions could be limited. 35 Table of Contents Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: •mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenue and costs, including synergies; •an inability to secure adequate customer commitments to use the acquired systems or facilities; •the risk that natural gas reserves expected to support the acquired assets may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed as anticipated; •an inability to integrate successfully the assets or businesses we acquire, particularly given the relatively small size of our management team and its limited history with our assets; •coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; •the assumption of unknown liabilities; •limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; •mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; •the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; •unforeseen difficulties operating in new geographic areas and business lines; and •customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and our unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. Our growth strategy requires access to new capital. Tightened capital markets or increased competition for investment opportunities could impair our ability to grow. We continuously consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions or growth capital expenditures. Any limitations on our access to new capital will impair our ability to execute this strategy. If the cost of such capital becomes too expensive, our ability to develop or acquire strategic and accretive assets will be limited. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds on satisfactory terms, if at all. The primary factors that influence our initial cost of equity include market conditions, including our then current unit price, fees we pay to underwriters and other offering costs, which include amounts we pay for legal and accounting services. The primary factors influencing our cost of borrowing include interest rates, credit spreads, covenants, underwriting or loan origination fees and similar charges we pay to lenders. Weak economic conditions and the volatility and disruption in the financial markets could increase the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets substantially while diminishing the availability of funds from those markets. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to our current debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. These factors may impair our ability to execute our growth strategy. In addition, we are experiencing increased competition for the types of assets we contemplate purchasing. Weak economic conditions and competition for asset purchases could limit our ability to fully execute our growth strategy. 36 Table of Contents We may not have access to capital due to deterioration of conditions in the global capital markets, weakening of macroeconomic conditions and negative changes in financial performance. In general, we rely, in large part, on banks and capital markets to fund our operations, contractual commitments and refinance existing debt. These markets can experience high levels of volatility and access to capital can be constrained for an extended period of time. In addition to conditions in the capital markets, a number of other factors could cause us to incur increased borrowing costs and to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for both secured and unsecured debt. These factors include our financial performance. If we are unable to secure financing on acceptable terms, our other sources of funds, including available cash, bank facilities, and cash flow from operations may not be adequate to fund our operations, contractual commitments and refinance existing debt. Because our common units are yield-oriented securities, increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on our future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by our level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2012, we had total indebtedness of $191 million. Our future level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: •our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; •our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and cash distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt; •we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and •our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. 37 Table of Contents A shortage of skilled labor in the midstream natural gas industry could reduce labor productivity and increase costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The gathering, processing, treating, compression and transportation of natural gas and NGL fractionation and transportation services require skilled laborers in multiple disciplines such as equipment operators, mechanics and engineers, among others. We have from time to time encountered shortages for these types of skilled labor. If we experience shortages of skilled labor in the future, our labor and overall productivity or costs could be materially and adversely affected. If our labor prices increase or if we experience materially increased health and benefit costs with respect to our General Partner's employees, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Restrictions in our credit facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to unitholders and value of our common units. We are dependent upon the earnings and cash flow generated by our operations in order to meet our debt service obligations and to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities, which may, in turn, limit our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our credit facility limits our ability among other things, to: •incur or guarantee additional debt; •make distributions on or redeem or repurchase units; •make certain investments and acquisitions; •make capital expenditures; •incur certain liens or permit them to exist; •enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; •merge or consolidate with another company; and •transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets. Our credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and tests. The provisions of our credit facility may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our credit facility could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders, subject to the terms and conditions of the credit facility, to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. For a complete description of long-term debt, see Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 6—Long-Term Debt." Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in natural gas production by our customers, which could adversely impact our revenues. A portion of our customers' natural gas production is developed from unconventional sources, such as shales, that require hydraulic fracturing as part of the completion process. Hydraulic fracturing 38 Table of Contents involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate gas production. Legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the definition of "underground injection" and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process, were proposed in recent sessions of Congress. Congress may consider legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to subject hydraulic fracturing operations to regulation under that Act's Underground Injection Control Program and to require disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities continues in other ways, with the EPA having commenced a multi-year study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing, the results of which are anticipated to be available between 2012 and 2014. In addition, on October 20, 2011, the EPA announced its intention to propose regulations by 2014 under the federal Clean Water Act to develop standards for wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other natural gas production activities. Several states have also proposed or adopted legislative or regulatory restrictions on hydraulic fracturing. We cannot predict whether any other legislation will be enacted and if so, what its provisions would be. If additional levels of regulation and permits are required through the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal or state level, that could lead to delays, increased operating costs and prohibitions for producers who drill near our pipelines which could reduce the volumes of natural gas available to move through our gathering systems which could materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. On April 17, 2012, the EPA approved final rules that establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations. This new rule addresses emissions of various pollutants frequently associated with oil and natural gas production and processing activities. The rule also establishes specific new requirements, effective in 2012, for emissions from compressors, controllers, dehydrators, storage tanks, gas processing plants and certain other equipment. This rule may require a number of modifications to our and our customers' operations, including the installation of new equipment to control emissions. Compliance with such rules could result in additional costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, for us and our customers, which may adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations. Our pipelines may become subject to more stringent safety regulation. Recently enacted pipeline safety legislation, the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011, reauthorizes funding for federal pipeline safety programs, increases penalties for safety violations, establishes additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines, and requires studies of certain safety issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements for existing pipelines. The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration of the DOT has also published an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking to solicit comments on the need for changes to its safety regulations, including whether to revise the integrity management requirements and add new regulations governing the safety of gathering lines. Such legislative and regulatory changes could have a material effect on our operations and costs of transportation service due to more stringent and comprehensive safety regulation and higher penalties for violations of those regulations. Our construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through organic growth projects. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and the construction of new midstream assets involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic uncertainties that are beyond our control. Such expansion projects may also require the expenditure of 39 Table of Contents significant amounts of capital, and financing may not be available on economically acceptable terms or at all. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all. Moreover, our revenue may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we expand a pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, yet we will not receive any material increases in revenue until the project is completed and placed into service. Moreover, we could construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize or only materializes over a period materially longer than expected. Since we are not engaged in the exploration for and development of natural gas and oil reserves, we often do not have access to third-party estimates of potential reserves in an area prior to constructing facilities in that area. To the extent we rely on estimates of future production in our decision to construct additions to our systems, such estimates may prove to be inaccurate as a result of the numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the construction of additions to our existing gathering and transportation assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way or environmental authorizations. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way or authorizations and may, therefore, be unable to connect new natural gas volumes to our systems or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or authorizations or to renew existing rights-of-way or authorizations. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way or authorizations increases materially, our cash flows could be adversely affected. A change in the jurisdictional characterization or regulation of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies could result in increased regulation of our assets which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Intrastate transportation facilities that do not provide interstate transmission services and gathering facilities (whether or not they provide interstate transportation services) are exempt from the jurisdiction of the FERC under the NGA. Although the FERC has not made any formal determinations with respect to any of our facilities, we believe that our intrastate natural gas pipelines and related facilities that are not engaged in providing interstate transmission services are engaged in exempt gathering and intrastate transportation and, therefore, are not subject to FERC jurisdiction. We also believe that our natural gas gathering pipelines meet the traditional tests that the FERC has used to determine if a pipeline is a gathering pipeline and is therefore not subject to the FERC's jurisdiction. The distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services has been the subject of substantial litigation and, over time, the FERC's policy for determining which facilities it regulates has changed. In addition, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission facilities, on the one hand, and intrastate transportation and gathering facilities, on the other, is a fact-based determination made by the FERC on a case-by-case basis. If the FERC were to consider the status of an individual facility and determine that the facility and/or services provided by it are not exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, the rates for, and terms and conditions of, services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by the FERC under the NGA. Such regulation could decrease revenue, increase operating costs, and, depending upon the facility in question, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if any of our facilities were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of the NGA or the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, or NGPA, this could result in the imposition of civil penalties as well as a requirement to disgorge charges collected for such service in excess of the cost-based rate established by the FERC. 40 Table of Contents Some of our intrastate pipelines provide interstate transportation service regulated under Section 311 of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, or NGPA. Rates charged under NGPA Section 311 are limited to rates deemed by FERC to be "fair and equitable." Accordingly, such regulation may prevent us from recovering our full cost of service allocable to such interstate transportation service. In addition, some of our intrastate pipelines may be subject to complaint-based state regulation with respect to our rates and terms and conditions of service, which may prevent us from recovering some of our costs of providing service. The inability to recover our full costs due to FERC and state regulatory oversight and compliance could materially and adversely affect our revenues. Moreover, FERC regulation affects our gathering, transportation and compression business generally. The FERC's policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, market transparency, market manipulation, ratemaking, capacity release, segmentation and market center promotion, directly and indirectly affect our gathering and pipeline transportation business. In addition, the classification and regulation of our gathering and intrastate transportation facilities also are subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC, the courts or Congress. State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements and complaint-based rate regulation. In recent years, the FERC has taken a more light-handed approach to regulation of the gathering activities of interstate pipeline transmission companies, which has resulted in a number of these companies transferring gathering facilities to federally unregulated affiliates. As a result of these activities, natural gas gathering may begin to receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels. We are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our natural gas gathering, compression, treating and transportation operations and NGL fractionation services are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection. Examples of these laws include: •the federal Clean Air Act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; •the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, also known as CERCLA or the Superfund law, and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may be or have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which our wastes are or have been transported for disposal; •the federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, and analogous state laws that regulate discharges from our facilities into state and federal waters, including wetlands; •the federal Oil Pollution Act, also known as OPA, and analogous state laws that establish strict liability for releases of oil into waters of the U.S.; •the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, also known as RCRA, and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the storage, treatment and disposal of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities; •the Endangered Species Act, also known as the ESA; and 41 Table of Contents •the Toxic Substances Control Act, also known as TSCA, and analogous state laws that impose requirements on the use, storage and disposal of various chemicals and chemical substances at our facilities. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital or operating expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our pipelines and facilities, and the imposition of substantial liabilities and remedial obligations for pollution resulting from our operations or at locations currently or previously owned or operated by us. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly corrective actions or costly pollution control measures. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. In addition, we may experience a delay in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits or regulatory authorizations, which may cause us to lose potential and current customers, interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue. There is a risk that we may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities in connection with our operations due to historical industry operations and waste disposal practices, our handling of hydrocarbon and other wastes and potential emissions and discharges related to our operations. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred, without regard to fault, under certain of these environmental laws and regulations in connection with discharges or releases of hydrocarbon wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, many of which have been used for midstream activities for a number of years, oftentimes by third parties not under our control. Private parties, including the owners of the properties through which our gathering or transportation systems pass and facilities where our wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. In addition, changes in environmental laws occur frequently, and any such changes that result in additional permitting obligations or more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. We may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance. We may incur greater than anticipated costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline integrity management program testing and related repairs. The DOT, through its Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transmission pipelines located where a leak or rupture could harm "high consequence areas" unless the operator effectively demonstrates by risk assessment that the pipeline could not affect the area. High consequence areas include high population areas, areas that are sources of drinking water, ecological resource areas that are unusually sensitive to environmental damage from a pipeline release and commercially navigable waterways. The regulations require operators, including us, to: •perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; •identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; •maintain processes for data collection, integration and analysis; •repair and remediate pipelines as necessary; and •implement preventive and mitigating actions. 42 Table of Contents Moreover, the recently enacted Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 could result in the adoption of additional regulatory requirements that will apply to us. In addition, many states, including the states in which we operate, have adopted regulations similar to existing DOT regulations for intrastate pipelines. Although many of our pipeline facilities fall within a class that is currently not subject to these requirements, we may incur significant costs and liabilities associated with repair, remediation, preventative or mitigation measures associated with our non-exempt pipelines, particularly in South Texas. We have incurred costs of approximately $1.8 million during 2012 in order to complete the testing required by existing DOT regulations and their state counterparts. This expenditure included all costs associated with repairs, remediations, preventative and mitigating actions related to the 2012 testing program. Additionally, should we fail to comply with DOT or comparable state regulations, we could be subject to penalties and fines. If future DOT pipeline integrity management regulations were to require that we expand our integrity management program to currently unregulated pipelines, including gathering lines, costs associated with compliance may have a material effect on our operations. Climate change legislation, regulatory initiatives and litigation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the natural gas services we provide. In recent years, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation to restrict or regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, or GHGs, such as carbon dioxide and methane, that may be contributing to global warming. It presently appears unlikely that comprehensive climate legislation will be passed by either house of Congress in the near future, although energy legislation and other initiatives are expected to be proposed that may be relevant to GHG emissions issues. In addition, almost half of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun to address GHG emissions, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. Depending on the scope of a particular program, we could be required to purchase and surrender allowances for GHG emissions resulting from our operations (e.g., at compressor stations). Although most of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that smaller sources such as our gas-fired compressors could become subject to GHG-related regulation. Depending on the particular program, we could be required to control emissions or to purchase and surrender allowances for GHG emissions resulting from our operations. Independent of Congress, the EPA is beginning to adopt regulations controlling GHG emissions under its existing Clean Air Act authority. For example, on December 15, 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In 2009, the EPA adopted rules regarding regulation of GHG emissions from motor vehicles. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the U.S. beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. Our Gregory and Conroe processing facilities are currently required to report under this rule. On November 30, 2010, the EPA published a final rule expanding its existing GHG emissions reporting rule for petroleum and natural gas facilities, including natural gas transmission compression facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. The rule, which went into effect on December 30, 2010, requires reporting of greenhouse gas emissions by regulated facilities to the EPA by September 2012 for emissions during 2011 and annually 43 Table of Contents thereafter. We timely submitted the reports required under this rule and have adopted procedures for future required reporting. However, operational or regulatory changes could require some or all of our other facilities to be required to report GHG emissions at a future date. In 2010, EPA also issued a final rule, known as the "Tailoring Rule," that makes certain large stationary sources and modification projects subject to permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. Several of the EPA's greenhouse gas rules are being challenged in pending court proceedings and, depending on the outcome of such proceedings, such rules may be modified or rescinded or the EPA could develop new rules. Although it is not possible at this time to accurately estimate how potential future laws or regulations addressing greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any future federal or state laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the natural gas we gather, treat or otherwise handle in connection with our services. The potential increase in the costs of our operations resulting from any legislation or regulation to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases could include new or increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay any taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. While we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged by our pipelines or other facilities, such recovery of costs is uncertain. Moreover, incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources could reduce demand for natural gas, resulting in a decrease in demand for our services. We cannot predict with any certainty at this time how these possibilities may affect our operations. The adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for swap transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and increase the working capital requirements to conduct these activities. In July 2010 federal legislation known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. The Dodd-Frank Act provides new statutory requirements for swap transactions, including oil and gas hedging transactions. These statutory requirements must be implemented through regulation, primarily through rules to be adopted by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC. The Dodd-Frank Act provisions are intended to change fundamentally the way swap transactions are entered into, transforming an over-the-counter market in which parties negotiate directly with each other into a regulated market in which most swaps are to be executed on registered exchanges or swap execution facilities and cleared through central counterparties. Many market participants will be newly regulated as swap dealers or major swap participants, with new regulatory capital requirements and other regulations that may impose business conduct rules and mandate how they hold collateral or margin for swap transactions. All market participants will be subject to new reporting and recordkeeping requirements. The impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our hedging activities is uncertain at this time, and the CFTC has not yet promulgated final regulations implementing the key provisions. Although we do not believe we will need to register as a swap dealer or major swap participant, and do not believe we will be subject to the new requirements to trade on an exchange or swap execution facility or to clear swaps through a central counterparty, we may have new regulatory burdens. Moreover, the changes to the swap market as a result of Dodd-Frank implementation could significantly increase the cost of entering into new swaps or maintaining existing swaps, materially alter the terms of new or existing swap transactions and/or reduce the availability of new or existing swaps. Depending on the rules and definitions adopted by the CFTC, we might in the future be required to provide cash collateral for our commodities hedging transactions under circumstances in which we do not currently post cash collateral. Posting of such additional cash collateral could impact liquidity 44 Table of Contents and reduce our cash available for capital expenditures or other partnership purposes. A requirement to post cash collateral could therefore reduce our willingness or ability to execute hedges to reduce commodity price uncertainty and thus protect cash flows. If we reduce our use of swaps as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable. Discord, conflict, and lack of compromise within and amongst the executive and legislative branches of the U.S. government relative to federal government budgeting, taxation policies, government expenditures, and U.S. borrowing/debt ceiling limits could adversely affect our business and operating results. The inability of the legislative and executive branches of the U.S. government to pass a federal government budget, address tax revenue requirements, control deficit spending, and effectively manage short and long-term U.S. government borrowing, debt ratings, and debt ceiling adjustments, could negatively impact U.S. domestic and global financial markets thereby reducing demand by our customers for our services thereby reducing revenues. Similarly, if our suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products, or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may become unable to continue to offer the materials we purchase from them. These actions could result in reductions in our revenues, increased price competition, or increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to operate our business effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key management personnel. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies will depend on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled management personnel with midstream natural gas industry experience. Competition for these persons in the midstream natural gas industry is intense. Given our size, we may be at a disadvantage, relative to our larger competitors, in the competition for these personnel. We may not be able to continue to employ our senior executives and key personnel or attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, and our failure to retain or attract our senior executives and key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively operate our business. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our senior management, as well as on our ability to attract and retain senior management. Our senior executive officers have significant experience in the natural gas industry and have developed strong relationships with a broad range of industry participants. The loss of any of these executives could prevent us from implementing our business strategy and have a material adverse effect on our relationships with these industry participants, our results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We do not have employees. We rely solely on officers and employees of the General Partner to operate and manage our business. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results timely and accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units. We are subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the "Exchange Act"), including the rules thereunder that will require our management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and timely financial reports, prevent fraud and 45 Table of Contents to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, but our internal accounting controls may not meet all standards applicable to companies with publicly traded securities. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, which we refer to as Section 404. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, in addition to our limited accounting personnel and management resources, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm's, future conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal controls, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Any failure to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting will subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units. Although we will be required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis, we will not be required to make our first annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the fiscal year ending December 31, 2013. In addition, pursuant to the recently enacted JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC or the date we are no longer an "emerging growth company," which may be through December 31, 2017. We are incurring increased costs as a result of being a new publicly traded partnership. We have limited history operating as a publicly traded partnership. As a publicly traded partnership, we are incurring significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, Sarbanes-Oxley and related rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NYSE have required changes in the corporate governance practices of publicly traded companies. These rules and regulations are increasing our legal and financial compliance costs and to make activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a publicly traded partnership, we are required to have at least three independent directors, create an audit committee and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, including the preparation of reports on internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, we are incurring additional costs associated with our publicly traded partnership reporting requirements. We also expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for our General Partner to obtain director and officer liability insurance and to possibly result in our General Partner having to accept reduced policy limits and coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for our General Partner to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on its board of directors or as executive officers. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common and subordinated units depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. 46 Table of Contents Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Southcross Energy LLC owns and controls our General Partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations as well as has limited duties to us and our unitholders. Southcross Energy LLC and our General Partner have conflicts of interest with us and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our other unitholders. Southcross Energy LLC controls our General Partner, and has the authority to appoint all of the officers and directors of our General Partner, some of whom are also officers of Charlesbank, the entity that controls Southcross Energy LLC. Although our General Partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner that is beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our General Partner also have a duty to manage our General Partner in a manner that is beneficial to its ultimate owner, Southcross Energy LLC. Conflicts of interest may arise between Southcross Energy LLC and our General Partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of Southcross Energy LLC over our interests and the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others: •Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Southcross Energy LLC to pursue a business strategy that favors us. •Our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Southcross Energy LLC, in resolving conflicts of interest. •Our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our General Partner to us and our unitholders with contractual standards governing its duties to us and our unitholders, limits our General Partner's liabilities, and also restricts the rights of our unitholders with respect to actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. •Except in limited circumstances, our General Partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval. •Our General Partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders. •Our General Partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our General Partner and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units. •Our General Partner determines which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us. •Our General Partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period. •Our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $35.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to our General Partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights. 47 Table of Contents •Our partnership agreement does not restrict our General Partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. •Our General Partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations. •Our General Partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 80% of the common units. •Our General Partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us. •Our General Partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. •Our General Partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our General Partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. Charlesbank is not limited in its ability to compete with us and is not obligated to offer us the opportunity to acquire additional assets or businesses, which could limit our ability to grow and could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Charlesbank is not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Charlesbank may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream or other assets and may be presented with new business opportunities, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct such assets or to engage in such business opportunities. Moreover, while Charlesbank may offer us the opportunity to buy additional assets from it, it is under no contractual obligation to do so and we are unable to predict whether or when such acquisitions might be completed. Charlesbank is a leading private equity firm with significantly greater resources than us and has experience making investments in midstream energy businesses. Charlesbank may compete with us for investment opportunities and may own interests in entities that compete with us. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our General Partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers and directors, and Charlesbank. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our General Partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. The market price of our common units may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. There were 10,350,000 publicly traded common units at December 31, 2012. In addition, affiliates of our General Partner own 1,863,713 common units and 12,213,713 subordinated units. You may not be able to resell your common units at or above your acquisition price. Additionally, a lack of liquidity may result in wide bid-ask spreads, contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of the common units and limit the number of investors who are able to buy the common units. 48 Table of Contents The market price of our common units may decline and be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •our quarterly distributions; •our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; •the loss of a large customer; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; •general economic conditions; •the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units or changes in financial estimates by analysts; •future sales of our common units; and •other factors described in these "Risk Factors." Our General Partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. Our General Partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our General Partner or its assets. Our General Partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our General Partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our General Partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our General Partner's fiduciary duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our General Partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders and will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, we may not grow as quickly as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our credit facility on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. 49 Table of Contents While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. Our partnership agreement generally may not be amended during the subordination period without the approval of our public common unitholders. However, our partnership agreement can be amended with the consent of our General Partner and the approval of a majority of the outstanding common units (including common units held by affiliates of our General Partner) after the subordination period has ended. As of December 31, 2012, affiliates of our General Partner owned, directly or indirectly, 15.3% of the outstanding common units and all of our outstanding subordinated units. Reimbursements due to our General Partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our General Partner. Prior to making any distribution on our common units, we will reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates, including Southcross Energy LLC, for expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Under our partnership agreement, we will reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates for certain expenses incurred on our behalf and includes, among other items, compensation expense for all employees required to manage and operate our business. Our partnership agreement provides that our General Partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our General Partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of available cash to pay cash distributions to our common unitholders. Our partnership agreement replaces our General Partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common and subordinated units with contractual standards governing its duties. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary duties to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our General Partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which means that a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the partnership agreement does not provide for a clear course of action. This entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our General Partner may make in its individual capacity include: •how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and its affiliates; •whether to exercise its limited call right; •whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner; •how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns; •whether to elect to reset target distribution levels; •whether to transfer the incentive distribution rights or any units it owns to a third party; and 50 Table of Contents •whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder agrees to become bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Our partnership agreement restricts the rights of holders of our common and subordinated units with respect to actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the rights of unitholders with respect to actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement provides that: •whenever our General Partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our General Partner, our General Partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning it subjectively believed that the decision was in the best interest of the partnership and our unitholders, and except as specifically provided by our partnership agreement, will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity; •our General Partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a General Partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith; •our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or their assignees resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our General Partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and •our General Partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement (including any duties to us or our unitholders) if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is: •approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner, although our General Partner is not obligated to seek such approval; •approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our General Partner and its affiliates; •determined by the board of directors of our General Partner to be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or •determined by the board of directors of our General Partner to be fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our General Partner must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of our General Partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the final two subclauses above, then it will be presumed that, in making its 51 Table of Contents decision, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Our partnership agreement provides that our conflicts committee may be comprised of one or more independent directors. If we establish a conflicts committee with only one independent director, your interests may not be as well served as if we had a conflicts committee comprised of at least two independent directors. A single-member conflicts committee would not have the benefit of discussion with, and input from, other independent directors. Our General Partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our General Partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our General Partner's board or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. Our General Partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our General Partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution per unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the "reset minimum quarterly distribution"), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. We anticipate that our General Partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that our General Partner could exercise this reset election at a time when we are experiencing declines in our aggregate cash distributions or at a time when our General Partner expects that we will experience declines in our aggregate cash distributions in the foreseeable future. In such situations, our General Partner may be experiencing, or may expect to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued common units, which are entitled to specified priorities with respect to our distributions and which therefore may be more advantageous for the General Partner to own in lieu of the right to receive incentive distribution payments based on target distribution levels that are less certain to be achieved in the then-current business environment. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued common units to our General Partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels related to our General Partner's incentive distribution rights. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our General Partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our General Partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our General Partner will be chosen by Southcross Energy LLC. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they will have little ability to remove our General Partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our 52 Table of Contents operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our General Partner without its consent. Our unitholders are currently unable to remove our General Partner without its consent because our General Partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding limited partner units voting together as a single class is required to remove our General Partner. As of December 31, 2012, affiliates of our General Partner own 57.6% of our outstanding common and subordinated units. Also, if our General Partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our General Partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on our common units will be extinguished. A removal of our General Partner under these circumstances would adversely affect our common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over our subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our General Partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our General Partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our General Partner because of the unitholder's dissatisfaction with our General Partner's performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and the conversion of all subordinated units to common units. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by a provision of our partnership agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our General Partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our General Partner interest or the control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our General Partner may transfer its General Partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of Southcross Energy LLC to transfer all or a portion of its ownership interest in our General Partner to a third party. The new owner of our General Partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our General Partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers. This effectively permits a "change of control" without the vote or consent of the unitholders. We may issue additional units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: •our existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; 53 Table of Contents •the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; •because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; •the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and •the market price of the common units may decline. Southcross Energy LLC may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. As of December 31, 2012, Southcross Energy LLC held an aggregate of 1,863,713 common units and 12,213,713 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. Our General Partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our General Partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. As of December 31, 2012, Southcross Energy LLC owned approximately 15.3% of our 12,213,713 outstanding common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units (other than upon the conversion of the subordinated units), Southcross Energy LLC will own approximately 57.6% of our outstanding common units. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. You could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that: •we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or •your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our General Partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute "control" of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, 54 Table of Contents we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable both for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that were known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the partnership agreement. Neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest nor liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, there would be material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. 55 Table of Contents The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. We are unable to predict whether any such changes will ultimately be enacted. However, it is possible that a change in law could affect us and may be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Unitholders' share of our income will be taxable to them for federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because a unitholder will be treated as a partner to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to it, which may require the payment of federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on their share of our taxable income even if the unitholder receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take or may take, and the IRS's positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all the positions we take or may take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have an adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our General Partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a unitholder sells his or her common units, a gain or loss will be recognized for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units they sell will, in effect, become taxable income to them if they sell such common units at a price greater than their tax basis in those common units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of their common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if our unitholders sell their common units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. 56 Table of Contents Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If our unitholders are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, such unitholders should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from their sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, however, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a "short seller" to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, such unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a "short seller" to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, he may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to 57 Table of Contents modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common units. We will adopt certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our General Partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our General Partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our General Partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our General Partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has recently announced a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief program whereby, if a publicly traded partnership that technically terminated requests publicly traded partnership technical termination relief and such relief is granted by the IRS, among other things, the partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years. As a result of investing in our common units, our unitholders may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are 58 Table of Contents imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We initially expect to conduct business in South Texas, Mississippi and Alabama. Some of these states currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is our unitholders responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 