Item 1A. Risk FactorsYou should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as all of the other information contained in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto, before deciding to invest in our common stock. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, including any such statements made in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Generally We are a new company that, prior to receipt of GSE Approval in January 2013, did not engage in any substantive insurance operations. Therefore, we do not have a track record or operating history on which investors may rely for purposes of projecting our future operating results.We are a new company that received GSE Approval in January 2013. We did not engage in any substantive operations (including writing MI) prior to receipt of GSE Approval and, therefore, do not have a track record or operating history on which investors may rely for purposes of projecting future operating results. Having a short insurance operating history, we are subject to substantial business and financial risks and could suffer significant losses, all of which are difficult to predict. We are continuing to develop business relationships, develop and implement our technology platform, gain customers, establish operating procedures, continue to hire staff and complete other tasks appropriate for the conduct of our intended business activities. Our success will also be dependent upon our ability to implement the operating procedures we have established, and continue to develop the internal controls (including the timely and successful implementation of information technology systems and programs) to effectively support our business and our regulatory and reporting requirements. In addition to the foregoing, as a new company with limited insurance operating history, we do not have all the necessary licenses and authorizations to operate the insurance business described in this prospectus in all of the United States. As of the date of this report, we have obtained certificates of authority to write MI business in 49 states and D.C. We do not yet have a certificate of authority in Wyoming. Further, industry conditions may change in a manner that adversely affects the development or profitability of our business, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to develop our business in a timely manner, if at all.We have reported net losses since our inception, expect to continue to report annual net losses in the near term, and cannot assure you when we will achieve profitability.We have reported net losses since our inception. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we reported a net loss of $55.2 million and for the year ended December 31, 2012, we reported a net loss of $27.5 million. We currently expect to continue to report annual net losses in the near term, the size of which will depend primarily on the amount of insurance business we can transact and the returns generated from our investment portfolio. We expect that cash and investments and projected cash flows from operations will provide us with sufficient liquidity to fund our anticipated growth by providing capital to increase our insurance company surplus as well as for payment of operating expenses through 2015, at which point we currently expect we will need to raise additional capital. Any such capital raise may be in the form of debt, preferred equity, or common equity and may be senior to our common stock and may result in dilution to you. No assurance as to the ultimate availability, costs or other terms of any such additional capital can be given at this time. We cannot assure you when, or if, we will achieve profitability. Conditions that could delay our profitability primarily include our ability to attract and retain a diverse customer base, fully develop and implement our enterprise technology platform, maintain GSE eligibility and our certificates of authority from state insurance departments, and to a lesser extent, include increasing unemployment rates, decreasing housing values, unfavorable GSE reform and unfavorable resolution of ongoing legal proceedings.As a participant in the mortgage lending and MI industry, we rely on e-commerce and other technologies to conduct business with our customers. Our inability to meet the technological demands of customers could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results.As a participant in the mortgage lending and MI industry, we rely on e-commerce and other technologies to provide and expand our products and services. Customers require us to provide certain products and services in a secure manner, electronically via the Internet or electronic data transmission, and we will process a significant amount of our new insurance written and claims electronically. Accordingly, we are investing resources in establishing and maintaining electronic connectivity with customers and, more generally, in e-commerce and technological advancements. In order to integrate electronically with mortgage lenders, 33we will need to continue to activate customers that utilize the largest and leading servicing system providers, LPS MSP and Fiserv LoanServ™, leveraging the integrations we have completed with these providers, and connect our systems to the industry's leading third-party loan origination systems. As discussed below in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Start-up Operations - Customer Development," we have completed integration with LPS MSP and Fiserv LoanServTM and have integrated with certain leading third-party loan origination systems, including Ellie Mae Encompass360®. We expect this integration process may take a significant amount of time before it is complete. We are also working to integrate directly with those lenders that maintain their own, proprietary loan origination and servicing system technologies, recognizing that the time-lines for these integrations are heavily dependent upon the lenders' internal technology resources. Our inability to continue to make progress with these e-commerce connections could negatively impact our ability to attract as customers the larger mortgage lenders who rely on these connections to do business. Many customers require us to have such connectivity in place as a precursor to doing business with them. Our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely impacted if we do not successfully establish these arrangements or otherwise keep pace with the technological demands of customers.If we, together with third parties with whom we have contracted, are unable to develop, enhance and maintain our technology platform with respect to the products and services we offer, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed.As discussed above in this report, we have developed an enterprise technology platform designed to support our mortgage insurance operations. If our technology platform fails to perform in the manner we expect, our business, financial condition and operating results will be significantly harmed. Further, if we are unable to timely and effectively enhance our platform when necessary to support our current and future business functions, our business would be negatively impacted. Furthermore, such system development and enhancement efforts are critical to having and maintaining a fully operational business and technology platform, as specifically required in our approval conditions from the GSEs. Until we reach a significant volume of mortgage insurance applications through our policy acquisition system, and even if we reach a significant volume, we cannot be assured that we will not experience difficulties. The success of our business will be dependent on our ability to resolve any issues identified with our technology platform during operations and to make timely improvements. could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Further, we will need to match or exceed the technological capabilities of our competitors over time. We cannot predict with certainty the cost of such maintenance and improvements, but failure to make such improvements and any significant shortfall in any technology enhancements or negative variance in the time-line in which system enhancements are delivered could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.In addition, we have contracted with a number of third parties in connection with the development and operation of the platform and rely on these third parties to competently perform their obligations in a timely manner. Any failure to maintain acceptable arrangements with these third parties, or the failure of any of these third parties to perform and/or deliver in an acceptable and timely manner, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.We may not receive, or be able to retain, licenses in all states, which would hamper our ability to issue MI on a nationwide basis. In addition to GSE Approval, in order to transact MI on a nationwide basis NMIC must receive certificates of authority in each of the 50 states and D.C. As of the date of this prospectus, NMIC has obtained certificates of authority in 49 states and D.C. NMIC has not yet received a certificate of authority in Wyoming. On March 7, 2014, we received a letter from the Wyoming Insurance Department ("WY DOI") notifying us that our application for a certificate of authority in Wyoming has been recommended for approval subject to NMIC posting a statutory deposit with the Wyoming Insurance Commissioner, which is customary for mortgage insurance companies. Although it appears likely based on written correspondence from the WY DOI that we will soon obtain a certificate of authority in Wyoming, there can be no assurance when the certificate of authority will ultimately be issued or if it will even be issued at all. The WY DOI has considerable discretion as to whether to grant us a certificate of authority. Unless and until we are successful in obtaining a license in Wyoming, our mortgage insurance business will be confined to those states where we have been issued certificates of authority and where our forms and rates have been approved. In addition, certain lenders may require that we hold certificates of authority in all states before they are willing to do business with us, which could also have an adverse effect on the volume of business we are able to write.Our mortgage insurance master policies contain restrictions on our ability to rescind coverage for fraud and underwriting defects, and if we were to fail to timely discover any such fraud or underwriting defects, our rights of rescission would be significantly limited, and we could suffer increased losses as a result of paying claims on loans with unacceptable risk profiles. On December 10, 2013, we announced that through a new version of our master policy and through an endorsement to our existing master policy, we will provide rescission relief after a borrower has timely made 12 consecutive monthly payments on a 34loan, rather than 18 months as provided in the current master policy. The new master policy and endorsement are pending final approvals from some state insurance regulators. Under our current mortgage insurance policies, after a borrower has timely made 18 consecutive monthly payments on a loan we insure, we have agreed that we will not rescind or cancel coverage of that loan for borrower fraud or underwriting defects. In addition, upon the borrower attaining 18 full and timely consecutive monthly payments, we have agreed to limitations on our ability to initiate an investigation of fraud or misrepresentation by our insureds or any other party involved in the origination of an insured loan, which we collectively refer to in our master policies as a "First Party." Although we have processes in place to review every loan we insure, we may not discover fraud and/or underwriting defects prior to a borrower making the 18th payment, or after we implement the new terms of coverage, after the 12th payment. If this were to occur, we would be contractually prohibited from exercising our rights of rescission for borrower fraud; our rights to investigate potential First Party fraud or misrepresentation would be significantly curtailed; and we may be obligated to pay claims on certain loans with unacceptable risk profiles or which failed to meet our underwriting guidelines at the time of origination. As a result, we could suffer significant unexpected losses, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results.We are outsourcing the underwriting of our mortgage insurance on certain loans to third-party service providers. If these service providers fail to adequately perform their underwriting services or place our coverage on loans we would deem ineligible, we could experience increased losses on loans underwritten by them and our customer relationships could be negatively impacted. If our underwriting service providers fail to adequately perform their underwriting services, such as mishandling of customer inquiries or an inability to underwrite a sufficient volume of applications per day, we may lose opportunities to place mortgage insurance coverage on particular loans, our reputation may suffer, and customers may choose not to do business with us at all. In addition, if our underwriting service providers place our coverage on loans that are ineligible for coverage under our underwriting guidelines, our risk of loss will be increased on those loans or the premiums we charge will be inadequate to the risk presented. We do not have the right under our mortgage insurance policies to cancel coverage of an ineligible loan as a result of an underwriting vendor's inappropriate decision. Further, other than being able to terminate our contracts with these service providers, we do not have explicit monetary contractual remedies against these service providers in the event we are obligated to pay claims on ineligible loans that they improperly agreed to insure on our behalf. If these service providers fail to adequately perform their underwriting services or consistently place coverage on ineligible loans, we could experience increased losses on loans underwritten by them and our customer relationships could be negatively impacted, which would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results.We currently intend to perform a post-close underwriting review of every loan that has been insured through our delegated mortgage insurance program within the first months of coverage, which will increase our costs of doing business and could negatively impact our ability to compete. In addition, a delegated lender could commit us to insure loans with unacceptable risk profiles before we discover and remedy the problem. Our delegated underwriting program permits lenders who are approved by us to bind coverage on our behalf, so long as the insurance decision is consistent with applicable eligibility and underwriting criteria. Historically, delegated underwriting of mortgage insurance by lenders has been perceived by both lenders and MI companies as affording mutually beneficial efficiencies to the mortgage underwriting process. Compared to the prevailing delegated programs of our competitors, our delegated program is costlier and less efficient for us and our customers. The terms of coverage that apply to loans insured under our delegated program require the lenders to submit complete loan origination files to us within 60 days of the coverage effective dates. To comply with the loan file delivery requirement, our customers' processes would likely need to be modified, which will require the expenditure of greater resources on their part and could have the effect of driving our customers to choose our competitors' products over ours. In addition, we intend to conduct a post-close underwriting review (with the assistance of third-party service providers) of every loan insured under our delegated program to determine whether such loans meet applicable eligibility and underwriting criteria. While we believe our timely post-close review will afford greater certainty of coverage to our customers, this process could significantly increase our costs of doing business compared to our competitors. For these reasons, the structure of our delegated program could negatively impact our ability to compete, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.NMIC is required to maintain minimum capital under its agreements with the GSEs and certain states, and if NMIC falls below these capital requirements or exceeds certain risk-to-capital ratios, we could be required to cease writing business in these states and would likely lose our GSE eligibility, either of which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results.As a condition of GSE Approval, we have agreed with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to limit NMIC's risk-to-capital ("RTC") ratio to no greater than 15 to 1 for the first three years of operations (expiring December 31, 2015) and at all times to maintain total statutory capital of at least $150 million. After that date, we agree to comply with the risk-to-capital ratios that are imposed in the GSEs' then existing eligibility requirements. In addition, our operation plan filed with our principal regulator, the Wisconsin Office 35of the Commissioner of Insurance ("Wisconsin OCI") and other state insurance departments in connection with NMIC's applications for licensure includes the expectation that we will downstream additional capital, if needed, so that NMIC does not exceed an 18 to 1 risk-to-capital ratio. Further, as part of our process of obtaining certificates of authority, NMIC entered into risk-to-capital agreements with the California Insurance Department, the Missouri Department of Insurance, the New York State Department of Financial Services, the Ohio Department of Insurance and the Texas Commissioner of Insurance. These agreements require NMIC to maintain a risk-to-capital ratio not to exceed 20 to 1 until January 2016. Finally, in connection with obtaining a certificate of authority in Florida, NMIH, consistent with conditions of the GSE Approval, has agreed to downstream additional capital from time to time, as needed, to maintain NMIC's risk-to-capital ratio at or below 15 to 1. If our business grows faster (i.e. our risk-in-force grows faster than expected) or is less profitable than expected (i.e. our revenues do not generate the return we expect), our actual RTC ratios over the short to mid-term could exceed our expected RTC ratios and could begin to approach the limits to which we are subject, which could require us to raise additional capital or enter into alternative arrangements to reduce our risk-in-force ("RIF"), including through reinsurance. With respect to each policy, primary RIF is the product of an insured loan's coverage percentage (the level of insurance protection) specified in the policy multiplied by that loan's unpaid principal balance. We can give no assurance that our efforts to raise capital or reduce our RIF would be successful. If we are unable to raise additional capital or enter into alternative arrangements to reduce our RIF, we may exceed the GSE and/or state-imposed capital requirements. If this were to occur, we may lose our GSE eligibility and/or may be required to cease transacting new business in these states, which would substantially impair our business and adversely impact our financial position and operating results.Our insurance subsidiary is subject to state insurance department capital adequacy requirements, which if breached, could result in NMIC being required to cease writing new business or lose GSE eligibility. NMIC's principal regulator is the Wisconsin OCI. Under applicable Wisconsin law, as well as that of 15 other states, a mortgage insurer must maintain a minimum amount of statutory capital relative to the risk-in-force in order for the mortgage insurer to continue to write new business. We refer to these requirements as the “risk-to-capital" requirement or "RTC" requirement. While formulations of minimum capital may vary in each jurisdiction that has such a requirement, the most common measure applied allows for a maximum permitted RTC ratio of 25 to 1. Wisconsin and certain other states, including California and Illinois, apply a substantially similar requirement referred to as minimum policyholders' position. Accordingly, if we fail to meet the capital adequacy requirements in one or more states, we could be required to suspend writing business in some or all of the states in which we do business.Our inability to timely attract and retain the largest mortgage originators as customers could negatively impact our ability to achieve our business goals. The success of our mortgage insurance business is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain as customers the largest mortgage originators in the United States. To that end, we have identified 36 lenders and classified them as our National Accounts. These National Accounts generally represent the nation's largest home mortgage lenders. These lenders originate loans through their retail channels, as well as purchase loans from other originators, including the smaller correspondent lenders. Within the National Accounts, there are approximately five national mortgage originators who we consider critical to the achievement of our business goals because of their dominant market share. As a result of their size and market share, these entities originate a significant majority of low down payment mortgages in the United States and, therefore, influence the size of the MI market. In order to insure low down payment loans originated by these five largest originators, we must first obtain their respective approvals as an authorized MI provider, including their review and approval of our terms of coverage set forth in our master policies. We must also achieve connectivity with their loan origination systems and servicing platforms. The process of obtaining such approvals and integrating our systems is time-consuming and requires the dedication and coordination of significant resources by us and the lenders. There is no assurance we will receive approvals from these lenders to do MI business in this channel in a timely manner or at all. If we cannot timely obtain such approvals, or fail to obtain and retain one or more approvals, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted.If we ultimately gain these entities as customers, we cannot be certain that any loss of business from a single lender would be replaced from other new or existing lending customers in the industry. Such lending customers may decide to write business only with certain mortgage insurers based on their views with respect to an insurer's pricing, underwriting guidelines, loss mitigation practices, financial strength or other factors. Our customers may choose to diversify the mortgage insurers with which they do business, which could negatively affect our level of new insurance written and our market share. In addition, our master policies do not, and by law cannot, require our customers to do business with us. The loss of business from a significant customer could have an adverse effect on the amount of new business we are able to write, and consequently, our financial condition and operating results.36The mortgage market is dominated by the largest mortgage originators. We have identified thirty-six lenders as critical to our success and termed these lenders our National Accounts. If these lenders experience disruptions to their ability to originate mortgage loans, our business and financial performance could suffer.Maintaining business relationships and new origination volumes with these National Accounts, particularly those who we believe to be the largest five originators, once they become customers, will be critical to the success of our business. The economic downturn and challenging market conditions of the recent past have adversely affected the financial condition of a number of them. If the U.S. economy fails to fully recover or re-enters a recessionary period, these lenders could again become subject to serious financial constraints that may jeopardize the viability of their business plans or their access to additional capital, forcing them to consider alternatives such as bankruptcy or consolidation with others in the industry. If this were to happen to any of our National Accounts the overall health of the U.S. mortgage origination market would be negatively impacted. The loss of business from a significant customer could have an adverse effect on the amount of new business we are able to write, and consequently, our financial condition and operating results.There can be no assurance that the GSEs will continue to treat us as a qualified mortgage insurer in the future. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have imposed certain capitalization, operational and reporting conditions in connection with their recent approvals of NMIC as a qualified mortgage insurer. Some of these conditions remain in effect for a three-year period from the date of GSE Approval, while others do not expressly expire. Even though we have received GSE Approval to be a qualified mortgage insurer, there can be no assurance that the GSEs will continue to treat us as a qualified mortgage insurer in the future or, alternatively, they could, in their own discretion, require additional limitations and/or conditions on certain of our activities and practices in order to remain qualified. Such additional requirements or conditions could limit our operating flexibility and the areas in which we may write new business. The GSEs, as major purchasers of conventional mortgage loans in the United States, will likely be the primary beneficiaries of our MI coverage. If, in the future, either or both of the GSEs were to cease to consider us a qualified mortgage insurer and, therefore, cease accepting our MI products, our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely impacted.Under the terms of the GSE Approval, either or both of the GSEs could require us to redomicile from Wisconsin to another state, which, if required, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results.Under the terms of Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's respective approvals of NMIC as a qualified mortgage insurer, each GSE has the right to require NMIC to redomicile to another state approved by such GSE. If either or both of the GSEs were to require that NMIC redomicile to another state, the process to redomicile would likely be time consuming, and redomicile is subject to approval by both current and proposed state insurance regulators. NMIC's primary insurance regulator is currently the Wisconsin OCI. If NMIC were required to redomicile to another state acceptable to the GSEs, NMIC's primary insurance regulator would change and become the insurance regulator in the new state of domicile. If this were to occur, there is no assurance that NMIC would develop a favorable relationship with the new regulator. A requirement to redomicile could slow or prevent the successful execution of our plan of operations, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We expect to face intense competition for business in our industry from existing MI providers and potentially from new entrants. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may not be able to gain market share and our business may be adversely affected.The MI industry is highly competitive. We compete with other private mortgage insurers based on our financial strength, underwriting guidelines, product features, pricing, operating efficiencies, customer relationships, name recognition, reputation, the strength of management teams and field organizations, comprehensiveness of databases covering insured loans, effective use of technology and innovation in the delivery and servicing of insurance products and ability to execute. However, the existing MI companies, many of which have larger operations than us and/or are part of larger diversified companies, have established relationships and infrastructure, personnel and other resources than we are anticipated to have during our initial years of operation. In addition, we believe there is a substantial likelihood that one or more additional companies will enter the industry, as discussed above in Part 1, Item 1, "Business - Sales and Marketing and Competition," and provide products similar to those that we provide. In addition, the perceived increase in credit quality of loans that are being insured today, the deterioration of the financial strength ratings of the existing mortgage insurance companies and the possibility of a decrease in the FHA's share of the mortgage insurance market may encourage additional new entrants. During 2011, two mortgage insurers stopped writing new business and, based on public disclosures, these insurers approximated more than 20% of the MI industry volume in the first half of 2011. We believe their new origination market share has since been redistributed among the other MI companies. If our information technology systems are inferior to our competitors', existing and potential customers may choose our competitors' products over ours. If we are unable to compete effectively against our competitors and attract our target customers, our revenue may be adversely impacted and we may not be able to gain market share. Increased competition could result in fewer 37submissions of policy applications to us and therefore result in premiums written being lower than expected, which could adversely impact our growth and profitability.In its agreement with the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation, NMIH agreed, consistent with the conditions of the GSE Approval, to downstream additional capital from time to time, as needed, to maintain NMIC's risk-to-capital ratio at or below 15 to 1. Our operation plan filed with the Wisconsin OCI and other state insurance departments in connection with NMIC's applications for licensure includes the expectation that NMIH will downstream additional capital if needed so that NMIC does not exceed an 18 to 1 risk-to-capital ratio. We may in the future seek state insurance department approvals, as needed, of an amendment to NMIC's business plan to increase the permitted ratio to the Wisconsin regulatory maximum of 25 to 1 (or to whatever lower RTC may be required by the GSEs). If one or more states do not approve the change in our plan of operation, we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to other MI companies that are not limited to these lower maximum risk-to-capital ratio requirements. If this were to occur our business could be adversely impacted.Our underwriting and risk management policies and practices may not anticipate all risks and/or the magnitude of potential for loss as the result of unforeseen risks.We have established underwriting and risk management policies and practices that seek to mitigate our exposure to borrower default risk in our insured loan portfolio by anticipating future risks and the magnitude of those risks. We believe the major factors that impact mortgage credit risk include but are not limited to the following:•the borrower's credit strength, including the borrower's credit history, debt-to-income ratios and cash reserves and the willingness of a borrower with sufficient resources to make mortgage payments when the mortgage balance exceeds the value of the home;•the loan product, which encompasses the LTV ratio, the type of loan instrument, including whether the instrument provides for fixed or variable payments and the amortization schedule, the type of property, the purpose of the loan and the interest rate;•origination practices of lenders;•the percentage coverage on insured loans;•the size of loans insured; and•the condition of the economy, including housing values and employment, in the geographic area in which the property is located.We believe that, excluding other factors, claim incidence increases:•for loans with higher LTV ratios compared to loans with lower LTV ratios;•for loans with higher debt-to-income ratios;•for loans to borrowers with lower credit scores compared to loans to borrowers with higher credit scores;•during periods of economic contraction and housing price depreciation, including when these conditions may not be nationwide, compared to periods of economic expansion and housing price appreciation;•for adjustable rate mortgages (or, "ARMs") when the reset interest rate significantly exceeds the interest rate of loan origination;•for loans in which the original loan amount exceeds the GSEs' established conforming loan limit compared to loans below that limit; and•for cash out refinance loans compared to purchase or rate and term refinance loans.There may be other types of loan characteristics relating to the individual loan or borrower that also affect the risk potential for a loan. In addition, the presence of multiple higher-risk characteristics in a loan materially increases the likelihood of a claim on such a loan unless there are other characteristics to lower the risk.The frequency and severity of claims we incur will be uncertain and will depend largely on general economic conditions, including rates of unemployment and home prices. Given the uncertainties caused by the slow pace of economic recovery and recent instability in the housing and mortgage markets and, to the extent that a risk is unforeseen or is underestimated in terms of magnitude of loss, these policies and practices may not completely insulate us from the effects of those risks. If our risk management policies and practices do not correctly anticipate risk or the potential for loss we may underwrite business for which we have not charged 38premium commensurate with the risk or we may establish our reserves at a rate that does not accurately approximate our actual ultimate loss payments. Either one of these could result in severe adverse material results.Our insurance in force may be concentrated in specific geographic regions and could make our business highly susceptible to downturns in local economies, which could be detrimental to our financial condition.We will seek to diversify our insured loan portfolio geographically; however, the availability of business might lead to concentrations in specific regions in the United States, which could make our business highly susceptible to economic downturns in these regions. As discussed below in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Start-up Operations - New Business Writings," NMIC entered into a pool insurance agreement with Fannie Mae pursuant to which NMIC agreed to insure approximately 22,000 loans with approximately 28% of the borrowers located in California. A deterioration in local or national economic conditions in the mortgage market and other economic conditions, including home prices, levels of unemployment and interest rates or an increase in default rates in specific geographical areas or generally could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position.Actual premiums and investment earnings may not be sufficient to cover claim payments and our operating costs.We set premiums at the time a policy is issued based on our expectations regarding likely performance over the term of the policy. Our premiums are subject to approval by state regulatory agencies, which can delay or limit our ability to increase our premiums. Generally, we will not be able to cancel the MI coverage or adjust renewal premiums during the life of an MI policy. As a result, higher than anticipated claims generally will not be able to be offset by premium increases on policies in force or mitigated by our non-renewal or cancellation of insurance coverage. While we believe our initial capital, premiums and investment earnings will provide a pool of resources sufficient to cover expected loss payments and have made estimates regarding loss payments and potential claims, the ultimate number and magnitude of claims we experience cannot be predicted with certainty and the actual premiums and investment earnings may not be sufficient to cover losses and/or our operating costs. An increase in the number or size of claims, compared to what we anticipate, could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. We may not be able to achieve the results that we expect, and there can be no assurance that losses will not exceed our total resources.Adverse investment performance may affect our financial results and ability to conduct business.Our investment portfolio consists primarily of highly rated debt obligations. Our investments are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. Changing and unprecedented market conditions could materially impact the future valuation of securities in our investment portfolio, which may cause us to impair, in the future, some portion of those securities. Volatility or illiquidity in the markets in which we hold positions may cause certain other-than-temporary impairments within our portfolio, which could have a significant adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and operating results. Income from our investment portfolio is one of our primary sources of cash flow to support our operations and claim payments. If we improperly structure our investments to meet those future liabilities or have unexpected losses, including losses resulting from the forced liquidation of investments before their maturity, we may be unable to meet those obligations. NMIC's investments and investment policies are subject to state insurance laws, which results in our portfolio being predominantly limited to highly rated fixed income securities. Interest rates on our fixed income securities are near historical lows. If interest rates rise above the rates on our fixed income securities, the market value of our investment portfolio would decrease. Any significant decrease in the value of our investment portfolio would adversely impact our financial condition.In addition, compared to historical averages, interest rates and investment yields on highly rated investments have generally declined, which has the effect of limiting the investment income we can generate. We depend on our investments as a source of revenue, and a prolonged period of low investment yields would have an adverse impact on our revenues and could potentially adversely affect our operating results.We may be forced to change our investments or investment policies depending upon regulatory, economic and market conditions, and our existing or anticipated financial condition and operating requirements, including the tax position, of our business. Our investment objectives may not be achieved. Although our portfolio consists mostly of highly-rated investments and complies with applicable regulatory requirements, the success of our investment activity is affected by general economic conditions, which may adversely affect the markets for credit and interest-rate-sensitive securities, including the extent and timing of investor participation in these markets, the level and volatility of interest rates and, consequently, the value of fixed-income securities. 39Estimating future claims and the timing of future claims is inherently uncertain and requires significant judgment, and as a result, our claim estimates may vary widely and are dependent on a number of factors.Estimating future claims and the timing of future claims is inherently uncertain and requires significant judgment. Our expectations regarding future claims may change significantly over time. Our future claims and ability to meet applicable capital adequacy requirements could be affected by a variety of factors. Such factors include, among others:•current and future economic conditions, including continued slow economic recovery from the most recent recession or the potential of the U.S. economy to reenter a recessionary period, borrower access to credit, levels of unemployment, interest rates and home prices;•the level of defaults, the claim rates on loans in default and the claim severity within NMIC's mortgage insurance portfolio;•potentially negative economic changes in geographic regions where our insurance in force may be more concentrated;•the rate at which our MI portfolio remains in force (persistency rate);•future levels of new insurance written (and the profitability of such business), which will impact future premiums written and earned and future losses; •the performance of our investment portfolio and the extent to which issuers of the fixed-income securities that we own default on principal and interest payments or the extent to which we are required to impair portions of the portfolio as a result of deteriorating capital markets;•our limited operating history, which adds to the speculative nature of our loss estimates; and•our operating performance for at least the next few years, which likely will continue to be an unreliable indicator of future performance due to the nature of the MI business and our expectation that our claims incidence is expected to be lower as a result of the typical distribution of claims over the life of a book resulting in fewer defaults during the first two to three years after loans are originated.Many of these factors are outside of our control and difficult to predict. In addition, some of these factors are subjective and not subject to specific quantitative standards. Due to the inherent uncertainty and significant judgment involved in the numerous assumptions required in order to estimate our losses, our loss estimates may vary widely. If we incorrectly estimate the factors that drive our losses, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted. We will establish loss reserves when we are notified that a loan we insure is in default for at least 60 days, based on management's estimate of claim rates and claim sizes, which will be subject to uncertainties and will be based on assumptions about certain estimation parameters that may be volatile. As a result, our actual ultimate claim payments may materially exceed the amount of our loss reserves. We are a new company that recently commenced transacting mortgage insurance in April 2013. We do not anticipate a material level of losses (relative to written premiums or stockholders' equity) in the first few years of our operations. Our practice, consistent with United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for the MI industry, will be to establish loss reserves only for loans at least 60 days in default. We will also establish reserves for estimated losses incurred on loans that have been in default for at least 60 days that have not yet been reported to us by the servicers (this is often referred to as incurred but not reported or “IBNR”).The establishment of loss and IBNR reserves is subject to inherent uncertainty and will require significant judgment by management. We plan to establish loss reserves using our best estimates of claim rates, i.e., the percent of loan defaults that ultimately result in claim payments, and claim amounts, i.e., the dollar amounts required to settle claims, to estimate the ultimate losses on loans reported to us as being at least 60 days in default as of the end of each reporting period. We will estimate IBNR by analyzing historical lags in default reporting to determine a specific number of IBNR claims in each reporting period. Our estimates of claim rates and claim sizes will be strongly influenced by prevailing economic conditions, for example current rates or trends in unemployment, housing price appreciation and/or interest rates, and our best judgments as to the future values or trends of these macroeconomic factors. If prevailing economic conditions deteriorate suddenly and/or unexpectedly, our estimates of loss reserves could be materially understated, which may adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Because loss and IBNR reserves are based on estimates and judgments, there can be no assurance that even in a stable economic environment, actual claims paid by us will not be substantially different than our loss and IBNR reserves for such claims. Our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely impacted if, and to the extent, our actual losses are greater than our loss and IBNR reserves.40We may be required to establish a premium deficiency reserve if the net present value of our premiums and reserves is less than the net present value of our loss payments and expensesIn addition to establishing loss reserves for loans in default, under GAAP, we are required to establish a premium deficiency reserve, or PDR, for our mortgage insurance products if the amount by which the net present value of expected future losses for a particular product and the expenses for such product exceeds the net present value of expected future premiums and existing reserves for such product. We evaluate whether a premium deficiency exists at the end of each fiscal quarter. Our evaluation of premium deficiency is based on our best estimates of future losses, expenses and premiums. This evaluation depends upon many significant assumptions, including assumptions regarding future macroeconomic conditions, and therefore, is inherently uncertain and may prove to be inaccurate. There can be no assurance that premium deficiency reserves will not be required in future periods after we commence writing insurance business. If this were to occur, our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely impacted.As a condition of obtaining approval from Freddie Mac to be a qualified mortgage insurer, we are required to obtain an insurance financial rating by July 31, 2015, and if we fail to obtain a rating by the deadline, we may lose our Freddie Mac approval status. Further, our failure to obtain a rating may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain certain lenders as customers or to transact business in the private label (non-GSE) mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”) market.As a condition of our approval from Freddie Mac to be a qualified mortgage insurer, we are required to obtain a rating from a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization by July 31, 2015. While we have commenced the process of obtaining such a rating, we are still in the exploratory phase and have not yet engaged any particular rating agency to obtain a rating. If we fail to obtain a rating by July 31, 2015, we may lose our Freddie Mac approval status, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We believe many lenders who hold mortgages in portfolio and choose to obtain MI on the loans may assess a mortgage insurer's financial strength rating as a factor in their choice of an MI provider. As a result, failure to obtain a rating may impact our ability to attract and/or retain certain lenders as customers. In addition, if MI is again utilized as a form of credit enhancement in connection with the issuance of private-label MBS, our failure to obtain a rating or inability to obtain a rating better than our competitors could harm our prospects of transacting business in the private label MBS market.If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, or to retain those personnel we have already recruited, our business may be adversely affected.We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part on the services and skills of our management team and our ability to motivate and retain these individuals and other key personnel, which include members of our Finance, Sales, Legal, Risk, Insurance Operations and IT departments. We intend to pay competitive salaries, bonuses and equity-based rewards in order to attract and retain such personnel, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in such endeavors. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results.The mix of business we write affects our revenue stream and the likelihood of losses occurring.Even when housing values are stable or rising, mortgages with certain characteristics have higher probabilities of claims. These characteristics include loans with LTV ratios over 95% (or in certain markets that have experienced declining housing values, over 90%), FICO credit scores, with lower scores tending to have higher probabilities of claims, or higher total debt-to-income ratios, as well as loans having combinations of these higher risk factors and thus have layered risk. In general, we charge higher premiums for loans with higher risk characteristics. There is, however, no guarantee that our premiums will compensate us for the losses we incur on loans with higher risk characteristics. From time to time, in response to market conditions, we may change the types of loans that we insure and the guidelines under which we insure them, and in doing so, the concentration of insured loans with higher risk characteristics in our portfolio may increase. In addition, we may make exceptions to our underwriting guidelines on a loan-by-loan basis and for certain customer programs. We expect any exceptions to be very limited and on a case-by-case basis. Even though underwriting that falls outside of our guidelines would be on a case-by-case basis, we could incur greater than expected claims and claim payments on this business, which could negatively impact our revenues and operating results.41We may not be able to effectively manage our growth. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on our ability to successfully manage our growth. Our growth has placed, and it may continue to place, significant demands on our operations and management. Our current plan is dependent upon our ability to: •continue to implement and improve our operational, credit, financial, management and other internal risk controls and processes and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage a growing number of client relationships; •scale our technology platform; and•attract and retain management talent.We may not successfully implement improvements to, or integrate, our management information and control systems, procedures and processes in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. In particular, our controls and procedures must be able to accommodate an increase in loan volume in various markets and the infrastructure that comes with new customers. If we are unable to manage future expansion in our operations, we may experience compliance and operational problems, be required to slow the pace of growth, or have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth, any one of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We rely on our systems and employees, and any errors or fraud could materially and adversely affect us. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical record-keeping errors and transactional errors. Our business is dependent on our employees as well as third parties to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. We could be materially and adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business also could be sources of operational risk to us, including breakdowns or failures of such parties' own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in our diminished ability to operate our business, potential liability to customers, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results.We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicer providers, and termination of third-party contracts, systems failures, interruptions, or breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on us.Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party service providers. We outsource many of our major information technology functions, including for the development and operation of our enterprise technology platform, data center hosting and management, email and collaboration, and human resource systems. The failure of any of these third parties to perform and/or deliver on a timely basis, or the failure of these systems, either individually or collectively, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of our systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third parties, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If significant, sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.The security of our information technology may be compromised and confidential information could be inappropriately disclosed.As part of our business, our computer systems process and retain large amounts of personal information of the borrowers whose mortgages we insure. The security of our computer systems and networks, and those functions that we may outsource, may be subject to cyber threats that could result in failures, unauthorized access or disruptions in our business. Additionally, our employees and vendors may use portable computers or mobile devices which can be stolen, lost or damaged. Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems and information, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all cyber threats, particularly because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. Those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers. We maintain technology errors and omissions coverage to limit our exposure in the event an incident occurs. This insurance provides coverage for (i) claims related to, among other things, unauthorized network or computer access, unintentional disclosure or misuse of personally identifiable information in our possession, unintentional failure to disclose a breach and (ii) certain 42costs related to privacy notification, crisis management and business interruption. While we maintain such coverage, any compromise of the security of our information technology systems that results in the loss of personally identifiable information may result in loss of customer business, would be costly and time-consuming, could expose us to liability for damages, harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Further, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover any claims or costs associated with an incident that may occur in the future.If servicers fail to adhere to appropriate servicing standards or experience disruptions to their businesses, our losses could unexpectedly increase.We depend on reliable, consistent third-party servicing of the loans that we insure. Among other things, our mortgage insurance policies require our insureds and their servicers to timely submit premium and monthly insurance-in-force and default reports and utilize commercially reasonable efforts to limit and mitigate loss when a loan is in default. If these servicers fail to adhere to such servicing standards and fail to limit and mitigate loss when appropriate, our losses may unexpectedly increase. In addition, if one or more servicers were to experience adverse effects to its business, such servicers could experience delays in their reporting and premium payment requirements. Without reliable, consistent third-party servicing, our insurance subsidiaries may be unable to correctly record new loans as they are underwritten, receive and process payments on insured loans and/or properly recognize and establish loss reserves on loans when a default exists or occurs but is not reported to us. Significant failures by large servicers or disruptions in the servicing of mortgage loans covered by our insurance policies would adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results.The occurrence of natural or man-made disasters or a pandemic could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.We could be exposed to various risks arising out of natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods and tornadoes and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism, military actions and pandemics. For example, a natural or man-made disaster or a pandemic could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates as policyholders and contract holders who are directly or indirectly affected by the disaster may be unable to meet their contractual obligations, such as payment of premiums on our insurance policies, interest payments due on our invested assets, and mortgage payments on loans insured by our MI policies. The continued threat of terrorism may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, and a natural or man-made disaster or a pandemic could trigger an economic downturn in the areas directly or indirectly affected by the disaster. These consequences could, among other things, result in a decline in business and increased claims from those areas, as well as an adverse effect on home prices in those areas, which could result in increased loss experience in our business. Disasters or a pandemic also could disrupt public and private infrastructure, including communications and financial services, which could disrupt our normal business operations. In addition, a disaster or a pandemic could adversely affect the value of the assets in our investment portfolio if it affects companies' ability to pay us principal or interest on their securities.Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints, including adverse business performance, could affect our ability to satisfy our obligations and potentially require us to raise more capital.We serve as the holding company for our insurance subsidiaries, which are mono-line insurance companies restricted to writing residential MI business only, and we do not have any significant operations of our own. As a result, our principal sources of funds will be income from our investment portfolio, dividends and other distributions from our insurance subsidiaries, including permitted payments under our tax and expense-sharing arrangements, and funds that may be raised from time-to-time in the capital markets. Our dividend income is limited to upstream dividend payments from our mono-line insurance subsidiaries, which dividends are restricted by agreements with the GSEs and various state insurance departments and by Wisconsin law. Under agreements with the GSEs, we are not permitted to extract dividends from our insurance subsidiaries until December 31, 2015. In addition, NMIC has agreed with various state insurance regulators to restrict dividend payments until January 2016. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits are deemed “extraordinary” and require approval of the Wisconsin OCI. For a further discussion of state insurance regulatory dividend limitations, see above in Item 1, “Business - Regulation - U.S. Mortgage Insurance Laws - State Insurance Regulation.” As a result of these dividend limitations, we will not receive dividend income from our subsidiaries for several years, if at all. In addition, the expense-sharing arrangements between us and our insurance subsidiaries, as amended, have been approved by the Wisconsin OCI, but such approval may be revoked at any time. If this were to occur, payments to us could be curtailed or limited which would adversely impact our business and operating results.Our principal liquidity demands include funds for: (i) the payment of certain corporate operating expenses; (ii) capital support for our MI subsidiaries; and (iii) potential payments to the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and local taxing and licensing authorities. Under the terms of the GSE Approvals, we are required to make additional capital contributions to NMIC in order to support a minimum surplus of $150 million and maintain a risk-to-capital ratio under 15 to 1 through December 31, 2015. We could 43be required to provide additional capital support for NMIC and Re One if additional capital is required pursuant to insurance laws and regulations or by the GSEs. If we were unable to meet our obligations, our insurance subsidiaries could lose GSE Approval and/or be required to cease writing business in one or more states, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to successfully write new business and establish premium rates at levels sufficient to cover losses, expenses and allow us to achieve profitability, which may be delayed or never occur. To the extent that the funds generated by our ongoing operations and initial capitalization are insufficient to fund future operating requirements or to achieve a return on capital attractive to investors, we may need to raise additional funds, including through equity or debt financings or reinsurance, or curtail our growth. We cannot be sure that we will be able to raise equity or debt financing on terms favorable to us and our stockholders and in the amounts that we require, or at all. If we cannot obtain adequate capital, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.We, as well as certain of our officers, are party to a lawsuit, which if determined adverse to us and our officers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We, as well as our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Sales Officer and Vice President of Sales Operations, Analytics & Planning, are defendants in a lawsuit titled: Germaine L. Marks, as Receiver of PMI Mortgage Insurance Co. , et al v. NMI Holdings, Inc. et al., filed on August 8, 2012 in California Superior Court, Alameda County (the "PMI Complaint"). The PMI Complaint, as amended, alleges breach of fiduciary duty, breach of loyalty, aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty and loyalty, misappropriation of trade secrets, conversion, breach of proprietary information agreement, breach of separation agreement, intentional interference with contractual relations and unfair competition. The lawsuit seeks injunctive relief as well as unspecified monetary damages. We and the individual defendants believe these claims are without merit and have filed answers denying all allegations. The court has set the trial date for September 29, 2014. On January 30, 2014, Arch announced the closing of its acquisition of CMG and certain assets of PMI Mortgage Insurance Co. ("PMI"). The terms of the February 7, 2013 Asset Purchase Agreement ("APA") between Arch and PMI provide that effective as of the closing of that transaction, PMI shall transfer and assign to Arch all causes of action being pursued in the PMI Complaint. The APA further provides that within thirty (30) days after the closing of the transaction, Arch shall have its attorney file appropriate pleadings and other documents and instruments with the court requesting that PMI be removed as a party plaintiff in the PMI Complaint and that Arch be substituted as the real party in interest. Although Arch has not yet filed any such request with the Court, the plaintiff is now described in pleadings as “Plaintiff and Real Party in Interest Arch U.S. MI Services, Inc.”There is no assurance that we and the individual defendants will prevail in the lawsuit. If the lawsuit is determined adversely to us, the court could grant injunctive relief to the plaintiffs preventing NMIC from conducting insurance operations and/or subject us to significant monetary damages. In addition, if the lawsuit is determined adversely to any of our employees, we may be required to remove and replace those employees under the terms of agreements NMIC and/or NMIH entered into with each of the Alabama Department of Insurance, the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation, the Texas Commissioner of Insurance and the New York State Department of Financial Services, as a condition of NMIC obtaining certificates of authority in those states. If we were required to replace any of our employees, our business and reputation could be significantly impaired, which could result in an adverse effect on our financial position and operating results.Risk Factors Relating to the Mortgage Insurance Industry and Its RegulationThe implementation of the Basel III Capital Accord may affect the use of MI by and, our ability to conduct business with, certain banks.In 1988, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision developed the Basel Capital Accord (“Basel I”), which set out international benchmarks for assessing banks' capital adequacy requirements. In June 2005, the Basel Committee issued an update to Basel I (as revised in November 2005, “Basel II”), which, among other factors, governs the capital treatment of MI purchased by domestic and international banks in respect of their origination and securitization activities. In November 2010, the United States agreed to a new capital framework known as Basel III. This new capital framework will replace the Basel II capital rules, which have not yet been implemented for U.S. depository institutions or holding companies. The Basel III framework will apply to the 10 to 12 largest U.S. banking organizations, as well as banking companies that have significant international operations. It may also be imposed on non-banking financial companies that are determined by the relevant regulators to present systemic risks to the U.S. financial system. The Basel III framework refines the Basel II risk-based structure by requiring the use of highly stressed scenarios in determining the appropriate levels of risk undertaken by banks, and it will also increase the required minimum capital ratios. The Basel III framework restricts the instruments that can count toward meeting the capital requirements, placing greater emphasis on common equity and retained earnings. Finally, Basel III will impose a new minimum liquidity standard on banking organizations. 44The phase in period for the Basel III regime for larger banking organizations will begin in 2014 and for community banks in 2015. The final regulations increase the amount of capital and the quality of the capital required to be held by banks. In addition, the capital rules will continue to risk-weight assets based on internal models that use inputs such as the probability of default and the bank's expected loss given a default. The final version of the regulations continues the current treatment for the risk weighting of residential mortgage assets and the treatment of mortgage insurance as reducing the risk weighting on mortgages where the borrower has made a down payment of less than 10% of the value of the residential property. In addition, the final regulations increase the risk weighting for mortgage servicing assets held by banks and require the mortgage servicing assets above certain levels be deducted from the calculation of Tier I equity. Since most low down payment mortgages originated today are either sold to the GSEs or insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA, we cannot predict what, if any, impact to the MI industry the Basel III regulations will have. Since a significant percentage of the mortgages insured by the MI industry are serviced by banks or bank-owned mortgage companies, the changes in risk weighting for mortgage servicing assets and the deductions from Tier I equity capital for mortgage servicing assets above certain levels could cause shifts in the amounts of mortgages serviced by banks and bank affiliates or subsidiaries relative to non-banking organizations. It is difficult to predict the impact these shifts may have on the quality of the servicing of insured mortgages or the ultimate impact on the MI industry.Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act could negatively impact private mortgage insurers and the amount of insurance they can write, including if the definition of Qualified Residential Mortgage (“QRM”) results in a reduction of the number of low down payment loans available to be insured. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted by Congress in July 2010, expands federal oversight of consumer financial products and services, including mortgage loans. The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB as the central federal supervisory, rulemaking and enforcement regulator with jurisdiction over bank and non-bank providers of consumer financial products and services. The Dodd-Frank Act also authorized the formation of the Federal Insurance Office, charging it with, among other things, monitoring all aspects of the insurance industry (excluding certain insurance lines other than MI), including the identification of gaps in regulation of insurers that could contribute to financial crisis. As discussed below in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Factors Expected to Affect Results as our Mortgage Insurance Operations Grow - Qualified Residential Mortgage Rule," the Dodd-Frank Act requires certain federal regulators to promulgate regulations providing for minimum credit risk-retention requirements in securitizations of residential mortgage loans that do not meet the definition of “qualified residential mortgages” (QRM). In March 2011, federal regulators issued the proposed credit risk retention rule, which the regulators re-proposed with certain revisions on August 28, 2013. The initial proposed rule suggested maximum LTV ratios, along with other restrictions such as to borrowers' debt-to-income ratios, and did not give consideration to MI in computing LTV. The re-proposed rule did not carry forward the minimum LTV requirements and other specific restrictions. Instead, the federal regulators proposed that whether a particular loan transaction is a QRM, and thus not subject to the credit risk retention requirement, should be determined by reference to the “qualified mortgage” (QM) rule under the Truth in Lending Act and Regulation Z. That is, if a residential mortgage loan is a QM loan, the loan would be considered a QRM loan. The federal regulators requested comment on whether the common definition of QRM should be limited to “safe harbor” QM loans or QM loans that satisfy either the “safe harbor” or “rebuttable presumption” QM standard.We, and the MI industry, continue to evaluate the expected impact of the re-proposed QRM rule on our industry, and such potential impact depends on, among other things, (i) the final definition of QRM and its requirements for LTV, loan features and debt-to-income ratio, (ii) whether the final definition will affect the size of the high-LTV mortgage market and (iii) the extent to which the mortgage purchase and securitization activities of the GSEs become a smaller portion of the overall mortgage finance market and securitizations subject to the risk retention requirements and the QRM exemption, become a larger part of the mortgage market. If the final QRM rule adopted by the federal regulators materially reduces the size of the high-LTV mortgage market and therefore the population of loans eligible for MI, our business could be adversely affected.Under this part of the re-proposed rule, because of the capital support provided by the U.S. government, the GSEs during their conservatorship would not be subject to the Dodd-Frank Act credit risk retention requirements. Changes in the conservatorship status of the GSEs or capital support provided to the GSEs by the U.S. government could impact the manner in which the credit risk retention rules apply to the GSEs. Changes in final regulations regarding treatment of GSE eligible mortgage loans could impact the manner in which the credit risk retention rule applies to GSE securitizations. If, in the future, the GSEs become subject to the credit risk retention requirements, or if the portion of the mortgage market that the GSEs either purchase or securitize diminishes, the MI industry, as well as the amount of new insurance that we may write, may be adversely affected.The federal regulators in the re-proposal presented an alternative approach to defining QRM, referred to as “QM plus.” Under this alternative, only certain types of residential mortgage loans, such as first-lien loans secured by 1-to-4 family principal dwelling units, could be considered QRM transactions. To be eligible for QRM status, the loan would have to be free of certain loan terms and have an LTV at closing that does not exceed 70%. Junior liens under the QM plus alternative would be permitted only in non-purchase money loan transactions and if permitted, would need to be included in the 70% LTV calculation. Under this alternative, 45credit insurance, including MI, would not reduce the minimum LTV requirement. In addition, loans that achieve a QM status because they meet the CFPB's QM provisions for GSE-eligible transactions would not be considered QRM transactions under the alternative proposal. If the federal regulators adopt a final QRM rule that is similar to the QM plus proposal and such final rule does not give consideration to MI in computing LTV, the attractiveness of MI may be reduced, and the MI industry and our business could be adversely impacted.Our business prospects and operating results could be adversely impacted if, and to the extent that, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's final ability to repay rules defining a qualified mortgage reduce the size of the origination market. The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB to regulate the offering and provision of consumer financial products and services under federal law, including residential mortgages. As discussed below in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Factors Expected to Affect Results as our Mortgage Insurance Operations Grow - Qualified Mortgage Rule," the Dodd-Frank Act authorized the CFPB to issue regulations governing a loan originator's determination that, at the time a loan is originated, the consumer has a reasonable ability to repay the loan ("ATR"). The CFPB issued final ATR regulations on January 10, 2013 and amendments on May 29, 2013, July 10, 2013 and September 13, 2013 implementing detailed requirements on how lenders must establish a borrower's ability to repay a covered mortgage loan. The ATR rule went into effect for residential mortgage loan applications received on or after January 10, 2014. A subset of mortgages within the ATR rule are known as "qualified mortgages" ("QMs"). The Dodd-Frank Act provides a statutory presumption that a borrower will have the ability to repay a loan if the loan has the characteristics that meet the definition of QM, potentially mitigating the risk of liability of the creditor and assignee of the creditor for special ATR remedies under the Truth in Lending Act. One of the characteristics of a lawful QM transaction is that the "points and fees" payable in connection with the transaction should not exceed 3% of the total loan amount. The ATR rule provides that a covered first mortgage loan meeting the QM definition bearing an annual percentage rate no greater than 1.5% plus a prevailing market rate is regarded as complying with ATR requirements, while if a loan bears an annual percentage rate of greater than 1.5% plus a prevailing market rate, it will carry a rebuttable presumption of compliance with the ATR rule. We expect that most lenders will be reluctant to make loans that do not qualify as QMs because they will not be entitled to such protection against civil liability under the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, we believe ATR regulations will have a direct impact on establishing a subset of borrowers who can meet the regulatory standards and will have a direct effect on the size of the residential mortgage market in any given year once the regulations become effective. We expect that the majority of our new insurance written will be on loans that will meet the QM definition, and therefore do not believe such limitations would materially affect our business. However, it is difficult to predict with any certainty how lenders' origination practices will change as a result of the QM rule and whether any such changes would have a negative impact on the MI industry. Our business prospects and operating results could be adversely impacted if, and to the extent that, the QM regulations reduce the size of the origination market.In addition, there are certain aspects of the ATR regulations that could have an adverse impact on mortgage insurers. Under the QM regulations, if the lender requires the borrower to purchase MI, then the MI premiums are included in monthly mortgage costs in determining the borrower's ability to repay the loan. The demand for MI may decrease if, and to the extent that, monthly MI premiums make it less likely that a loan will qualify for QM status, especially if MI alternatives (discussed below in "—The amount of insurance we may be able to write could be adversely affected if lenders and investors select alternatives to MI.") are relatively less expensive than MI. In addition, under the QM regulations, mortgage insurance premiums that are payable at or prior to consummation of the loan are includible in points and fees unless, and to the extent that, such up-front premiums (“UFP”) are (i) less than or equal to the UFP charged by the FHA, and (ii) are automatically refundable on a pro rata basis upon satisfaction of the loan. (The FHA currently charges UFP of 1.75% on all residential mortgage loans, but it has the authority to change its UFP from time to time.) The QM rule includes a limitation on points and fees in excess of 3% of the total loan amount. As inclusion of MI premiums towards the 3% cap will reduce the capacity for other points and fees in covered transactions, mortgage originators may be less likely to purchase single premium MI products to the extent that the associated premiums are deemed to be points and fees. As a result, we believe that the QM rule may increase demand for monthly and annual MI products relative to single premium products, which may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results to the extent that profitability of single premium products exceeds that of monthly and annual MI products.46Changes in the business practices of the GSEs, including a decision to modify the mortgage insurer eligibility requirements or decrease or discontinue the use of MI, federal legislation that changes their charters or a restructuring of the GSEs could reduce our revenues or increase our losses. We currently expect that the significant majority of our insurance written will be on loans sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. As discussed above in Item 1, "Business - Overview of the Private Mortgage Insurance Industry - GSEs," the requirements and practices of the GSEs impact the operating results and financial performance of MI companies. Changes in the charters or business practices of Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae could reduce the number of mortgages they purchase that are insured by us and consequently diminish our franchise value. The GSEs could be directed to make such changes by the Federal Housing Finance Agency ("FHFA"), which was appointed as their conservator in September 2008 and has the authority to control and direct the operations of the GSEs. The appointment of the FHFA as conservator may increase the likelihood that the business practices of the GSEs change in ways that could negatively impact the mortgage insurance industry and have an adverse effect on us. Each GSE maintains qualified mortgage insurer eligibility requirements, which they have been in the process of revising since mid-2010. The FHFA has announced its intent that the GSEs achieve uniformity in their respective requirements and that the requirements be finalized in the near term future. Although the GSEs and FHFA have not publicly commented on the final content of the revised mortgage insurer requirements, we believe they will include a new capital adequacy framework. Under the terms of our GSE Approval, the GSEs have already imposed certain capitalization, operational and reporting conditions on NMIC. It is difficult to predict whether any changes the GSEs might impose in their revised mortgage insurer eligibility requirements will have an effect on our business. See also Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Factors Expected to Affect Results as our Mortgage Insurance Operations Grow - GSE Reform."In addition, in connection with the FHFA's mandate that the GSEs align their mortgage insurer eligibility standards, the GSEs have imposed minimum standards for mortgage insurer master policies, including standards related to limitations on rescission rights. The new standards will be implemented in 2014, and to comply with the GSEs' master policy requirements we and our competitors have filed new master policies with state insurance regulators. As discussed above, our master policy includes coverage terms that we believe are more favorable to our customers than our competitors', particularly our rescission relief provisions. While we do not believe the GSEs' master policy standards will require other mortgage insurers to provide the same coverage terms as we do, the fact that the GSEs have imposed master policy standards could make it more difficult for us to distinguish ourselves from our competitors. The placement of the GSEs into the conservatorship of the FHFA has also increased the likelihood that the U.S. Congress will act to address the role and purpose of the GSEs in the U.S. housing market and potentially legislate structural and other changes to the GSEs and the functioning of the secondary mortgage market. In February 2011, the U.S. Department of the Treasury reported its recommendations regarding options for ending the conservatorship of the GSEs, and while it does not provide any definitive timeline for GSE reform, it does recommend substantially reducing the government's footprint in housing finance.Since 2011, there have been numerous legislative proposals, including in the current Congressional session, that are intended to wind down the GSEs in a piecemeal fashion. Among other changes, these bills, if ultimately enacted, would gradually reduce the GSE maximum portfolio size, prohibit the GSEs from engaging in any new activities or businesses and repeal the GSE affordable housing goals. In addition, there were several comprehensive housing finance reform proposals introduced in Congress. Each of these proposals has been designed to eliminate the GSEs, while most of them would also replace the GSEs with a new mortgage financing system. The proposals vary greatly with regard to the government's role in the housing market, and more specifically, with regard to the existence of an explicit or implicit government guarantee. During the third fiscal quarter of 2013, President Obama endorsed bipartisan mortgage reform legislation pending in the Senate and in the House of Representatives which would, as part of the proposed bills, eliminate and/or replace Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and have private investors (in lieu of the government) bear the risk undertaken by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. This legislation currently pending in Congress would have differing impacts on the role of the GSEs in the housing finance market, including their elimination, and the current role of mortgage insurance as credit enhancement, including its reduction or elimination, all of which could have an adverse effect on our revenue, operating results or financial condition. We cannot predict whether any mortgage reform legislation will be passed by the Senate or the House of Representatives, the changes such reform would introduce or the effect the legislation would have on private mortgage insurers including NMIC.As a result of the matters referred to above, it is uncertain what role the GSEs, FHFA and private capital, including MI, will play in the domestic residential housing finance system in the future or the impact of any such changes on our business. In addition, the timing of the impact on our business is uncertain. Any changes to the charters or statutory authorities of the GSEs would require Congressional action to implement, and it is difficult to estimate when Congressional action would be final and how long any associated phase-in period may last.47The U.S. MI industry is subject to regulatory risk and has been subject to increased scrutiny by insurance and other regulatory authorities.The U.S. MI industry and our insurance subsidiaries are and will be subject to substantial federal and state regulation, which has increased in recent years as a result of the recent financial crisis. Increased federal or state regulatory scrutiny could lead to new legal precedents, new regulations or new practices, or regulatory actions or investigations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In addition, given the recent significant losses incurred by many insurers in the mortgage and financial guaranty industries, our insurance subsidiaries may be subject to heightened scrutiny by insurance regulators. State insurance regulatory authorities could take actions, including making changes to capital requirements, that could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, failure to comply with the various federal and state regulations promulgated by federal consumer protection authorities and state insurance regulatory authorities could lead to enforcement or disciplinary action, including the imposition of penalties and the revocation of our authorization to operate. See above in Item 1, “Business - Regulation.”The NAIC has formed a working group to explore, among other things, whether the risk-to-capital requirements applicable to mortgage insurers should be overhauled. We, along with other MI companies are working with the Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Working Group of the Financial Condition (E) Committee of the NAIC (the “Working Group”). The Working Group will determine and make a recommendation to the Financial Condition (E) Committee of the NAIC as to what changes, if any, the Working Group believes are necessary to the solvency regulation of MI companies, including changes to the Mortgage Guaranty Insurers Model Act (Model #630). The Working Group is in the early stages of discussion and the ultimate outcome of these discussions and any potential actions taken by the NAIC cannot be predicted at this time. If the Working Group proposes that the NAIC adopt more stringent capital requirements, this could ultimately lead to NMIC being obligated to hold more capital for its insured business, which would reduce our profitability compared to the profitability we expect under the existing capital requirements.A downturn in the U.S. economy or a decline in the value of borrowers' homes from their value at the time their loans close may result in more homeowners defaulting and could increase our losses. Losses result from events that reduce a borrower's ability to continue to make mortgage payments, such as increasing unemployment and whether the home of a borrower who defaults on his or her mortgage can be sold for an amount that will cover unpaid principal and interest and the expenses of the sale. In general, favorable economic conditions reduce the likelihood that borrowers will lack sufficient income to pay their mortgages and also favorably affect the value of homes, thereby reducing and in some cases even eliminating a loss from a mortgage default. Deterioration in economic conditions generally increases the likelihood that borrowers will not have sufficient income to pay their mortgages and can also adversely affect housing values, which in turn can decrease the willingness of borrowers with sufficient resources to make mortgage payments to do so when the mortgage balance exceeds the value of the home. Housing values may decline even absent deterioration in economic conditions due to declines in demand for homes, which in turn may result from changes in buyers' perceptions of the potential for future appreciation, rising interest rates, restrictions on mortgage credit due to more stringent underwriting standards, liquidity issues affecting lenders or other factors, such as the phase-out of the mortgage interest deduction. In recent years, the residential mortgage market in the United States experienced a variety of worsening economic conditions, and housing values have only recently begun to stabilize. If our loss projections are inaccurate, our loss payments could materially exceed our recorded loss reserves resulting in an adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. Also, if unemployment rates materially exceed and home price trends materially differ from our forecasts, our underwriting standards may prove inadequate to shield us from materially increased losses.If interest rates decline, house prices appreciate or mortgage insurance cancellation requirements change, the length of time that our policies remain in force could decline and result in a decrease in our actual versus projected revenue.In each year, most of our premiums will be from insurance that has been written in prior years. As a result, the length of time insurance remains in force, which is also generally referred to as persistency, is a significant determinant of our revenues. The factors affecting the length of time our insurance remains in force include:•the level of current mortgage interest rates compared to the mortgage rates on the insurance in force, which affects the vulnerability of the insurance in force to refinancings (i.e., lower current interest rates make it more attractive for borrowers to refinance and receive a lower interest rate); and•mortgage insurance cancellation policies of mortgage investors along with the current value of the homes underlying the mortgages in the insurance in force.Current mortgage interest rates are at or near historic lows. Future premiums on our insurance in force represent a material portion of our claims paying resources. We are unsure what the impact on our revenues will be as mortgages are refinanced, because the number of policies we write for replacement mortgages may be more or less than the terminated policies associated with the 48refinanced mortgages. Our revenues might be negatively impacted if there is a higher than expected level of refinance activity on loans we insure in the future.The amount of insurance we may be able to write could be adversely affected if lenders and investors select alternatives to MI. If lenders and investors select alternatives to MI, our business could be adversely affected. These alternatives to MI include, but are not limited to:•lenders using government mortgage insurance programs, including those of the FHA and the VA;•state-supported mortgage insurance funds in several states, including California and New York;•lenders and other investors holding mortgages in portfolio and self-insuring;•investors using credit enhancements other than MI, using other credit enhancements in conjunction with reduced levels of MI coverage, or accepting credit risk without credit enhancement; •lenders originating mortgages using “piggy-back” structures to avoid MI, such as a first mortgage with an 80% LTV and a second mortgage with a 10%, 15% or 20% LTV (referred to as 80-10-10, 80-15-5 or 80-20 loans, respectively) rather than a first mortgage with an LTV above 80% that has MI; and •if borrowers pay cash versus securing mortgage financing, which has occurred with greater frequency in recent years.Any of these alternatives to MI could reduce or eliminate the need for our product, could cause us to lose business and/or could limit our ability to attract the business that we would prefer to underwrite. In particular, since 2008 government mortgage insurance programs, principally the FHA, have captured a significant share of the insured loan market. Government mortgage insurance programs are not subject to the same capital requirements, risk tolerance or business objectives that we and other private MI companies are, and therefore, generally have greater financial flexibility in setting their pricing, guidelines and capacity, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. On December 11, 2013, HUD announced its own final rule defining a "Qualified Mortgage" that would be insured, guaranteed or administered by FHA, which went into effect on January 10, 2014 and which is less restrictive than the CFPB's definition in certain respects, including that (i) it has no borrower DTI limit, and (ii) it has a higher pricing threshold for loans to fall into the "safe harbor" category of QM loans rather than the "rebuttable presumption" category of QM loans. Because of this, it is possible that lenders will prefer FHA-insured loans to loans insured by MI. In addition, loans insured under FHA and other Federal government-supported mortgage insurance programs are eligible for securitization in Ginnie Mae securities, which may be viewed by investors as more desirable than Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac securities due to the explicit backing of Ginnie Mae securities by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Federal government. While declining from a high of approximately 85% in 2009, the market share of governmental agencies remains substantially above the low of approximately 23% in 2007, according to statistics reported by Inside Mortgage Finance. If the FHA or other government-supported mortgage insurance programs maintain or increase their share of the mortgage insurance market, our business and industry could be negatively affected. The degree to which lenders or borrowers may select these alternatives now, or in the future, is difficult to predict. As one or more of the alternatives described above, or new alternatives that enter the market, are chosen over MI, our revenues could be adversely impacted. The loss of business in general or the specific loss of more profitable business could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results.49If the volume of low down payment home mortgage originations declines, the amount of insurance that we may be able to write could decline, which would reduce our revenues.Our revenues, in part, depend on the volume of low down payment home mortgage originations and may be negatively affected if the volume declines. The factors that affect the volume of low down payment mortgage originations include, among other things:•restrictions on mortgage credit due to more stringent underwriting standards, more restrictive regulatory requirements and liquidity issues affecting lenders;•the level of home mortgage interest rates and deductibility of mortgage interest for income tax purposes;•the health of the real estate industry and the national economy as well as the conditions in regional and local economies;•housing affordability;•population trends, including the rate of household formation;•the rate of home price appreciation, which in times of heavy refinancing can affect whether refinance loans have LTVs that require MI; and•U.S. government housing policy encouraging loans to first-time homebuyers.A decline in the volume of low down payment home mortgage originations could decrease demand for MI, decrease our new insurance written and therefore reduce our revenues and have an adverse effect on our operating results.The U.S. MI industry is, and as a participant we will be, subject to litigation risk generally.The MI industry faces litigation risk in the ordinary course of operations, including the risk of class action lawsuits and administrative enforcement by federal agencies. Litigation and enforcement actions relating to capital markets transactions and securities-related matters in general has increased as a result of the recent financial crisis. Consumers are bringing a growing number of lawsuits against home mortgage lenders and settlement service providers. Mortgage insurers have been involved in litigation alleging violations of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 (“RESPA”) and the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”). RESPA generally precludes mortgage insurers from paying referral fees to mortgage lenders for the referral of MI business. This limitation also can prohibit providing services or products to mortgage lenders free of charge, charging fees for services that are lower than their reasonable or fair market value, and paying fees for services that mortgage lenders provide that are higher than their reasonable or fair market value, in exchange for the referral of MI business services. Violations of the referral fee limitations of RESPA may be enforced by the federal CFPB, as well as by private litigants in class actions. In the past, a number of lawsuits have challenged the actions of private mortgage insurers under RESPA, alleging that the insurers have violated the referral fee prohibition by entering into captive reinsurance arrangements or providing products or services to mortgage lenders at improperly reduced prices in return for the referral of MI. In addition to these private lawsuits, other MI companies received Civil Investigative Demands (“CID”) from the CFPB as part of its investigation to determine whether mortgage lenders and mortgage insurance providers engaged in acts or practices in connection with their captive mortgage insurance arrangements in violation of the RESPA, the Consumer Financial Protection Act and the Dodd-Frank Act. In 2013, the CFPB entered into consent orders with five other MI companies settling the CFPB's allegations related to those MI companies' respective captive arrangements. Under the consent orders, each company agreed to discontinue the challenged captive reinsurance practices, pay monetary penalties and be subject to ongoing monitoring by the CFPB. We do not currently have any captive reinsurance arrangements, and are not currently subject to RESPA-related inquiries by the CFPB or other regulators or RESPA-related litigation. However, should we become a party to such an inquiry or action, the ultimate outcome is difficult to predict and it is possible that any outcome could be negative to us specifically or the industry in general and such a negative outcome could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and operating results.Risks Related to Our Common Stock We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the near future, and payment of any declared dividends may be delayed.As a condition of GSE Approval, the GSEs have prohibited NMIC from paying a dividend to us before December 31, 2015. NMIC has also agreed with various state insurance regulators to restrictions on the payment of dividends until January 2016. After the expiration of these periods, we must obtain prior approval from the GSEs for the payment of any dividend by NMIC and we will have to obtain permission from our state of domicile regulator, the Wisconsin OCI or any successor domestic regulator, for the payment of any extraordinary dividend. Without the payment of dividends from NMIC to us, it may be difficult for us to pay dividends to stockholders. 50We have not declared or paid dividends in the past, and we do not expect to pay dividends in the near future. Further, we do not have earnings from which dividends may be paid. In our early years, to the extent we have earnings, we intend to retain such earnings to expand our business. As a result, only appreciation in the price of our common stock, which may never occur, will provide a return to investors. Any future declaration and payment of dividends by our Board will depend on many factors, including general economic and business conditions, our strategic plans, our financial results and condition, legal requirements and other factors that our Board deems relevant. In addition, we may enter into credit agreements or other debt arrangements in the future that will restrict our ability to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock.The market price of our common stock could decline due to the large number of outstanding shares of our common stock eligible for future sale.As of March 7, 2014, we had 58,065,326 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding. Of the outstanding shares of our common stock, the shares held by a person (or persons whose shares are aggregated) who is not deemed to be an affiliate of ours at any time during the three months preceding a sale, and who has beneficially owned restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 of the Securities Act may be eligible for resale in the public market under Rule 144 under the Securities Act subject to applicable restrictions under Rule 144. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market in the future, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future, at a time and place that we deem appropriate.In addition, we have filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register an aggregate of 5.5 million shares of our common stock for issuance under our 2012 Stock Incentive Plan. Any shares issued in connection with acquisitions, the exercise of stock options or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by investors who purchase our shares.Future issuances of shares of our common stock may depress our share price and might dilute the book value of our common stock and reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote.Our Board has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock, including shares that may be issued to satisfy our obligations under our incentive plans, and securities and instruments that are convertible into our common stock. Such stock issuances could be made at a price that reflects a discount or a premium from the then-current trading price of our common stock and might dilute the book value of our common stock or result in a decrease in the per share price of our common stock.Future issuance of debt or preferred stock, which would rank senior to our common stock upon our liquidation, may adversely affect the market value of our common stock.In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by issuing debt, including bank debt, commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes or classes of shares of preferred stock. Our preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that would limit amounts available for distribution to holders of shares of our common stock. Accordingly, upon our liquidation, holders of our debt securities and preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of shares of our common stock. In addition, if we incur debt in the future, our future interest cost could increase and adversely affect our liquidity, cash flow and operating results.Our decision to issue debt or preferred stock will depend on market conditions and other factors, some of which will be beyond our control. We cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of such future issuances. Holders of our common stock bear the risk of such future issuances of debt or preferred stock reducing the market value of our common stock.The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of an investment in our common stock to decline.Because our IPO occurred recently, our common stock has limited trading history, and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially and be highly volatile, which may make it difficult for stockholders to sell their shares of our common stock at the volume, prices and times desired. There are many factors that will impact the market price of our common stock, including, without limitation:•general market conditions, including price levels and volume and changes in interest rates;•national, regional and local economic or business conditions;51•the effects of, and changes in, trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve;•our actual or projected financial condition, liquidity, operating results, cash flows and capital levels; •changes in, or failure to meet, our publicly disclosed expectations as to our future financial and operating performance;•publication of research reports about us, our competitors or the financial services industry generally, or changes in, or failure to meet, securities analysts' estimates of our financial and operating performance, or lack of research reports by industry analysts or ceasing of coverage;•market valuations, as well as the financial and operating performance and prospects, of similar companies;•future issuances or sales, or anticipated issuances or sales, of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock;•expenses incurred in connection with changes in our stock price, such as changes in the value of the liability reflected on our financial statements associated with outstanding warrants; •the potential failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting; •additions or departures of key personnel;•our failure to satisfy the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ;•our failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and •our treatment as an “emerging growth company” under the federal securities laws.The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These types of broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, stockholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert management's attention and resources and harm our business or operating results.We are an emerging growth company and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors. As a company that had gross revenues of less than $1 billion during its last fiscal year, we are an EGC. As an EGC, we are relieved from certain significant requirements, including, among other things, the requirement to (i) file reports under Section 13 of the Exchange Act, (ii) comply with certain provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley and the Dodd-Frank Act and certain provisions and reporting requirements of or under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act or (iii) comply with new or revised financial accounting standards as long as we are an EGC, which, under the JOBS Act, has the effect of reducing the amount of information that we are required to provide for the foreseeable future. For example, as an EGC, we are exempt from complying with Section 404(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley, which otherwise would have required our auditors to attest to and report on our internal control over financial reporting. These reduced disclosure requirements may make our common stock less attractive to investors. To the extent that other companies do not, or cannot, take advantage of the benefits under the JOBS Act, this distinction may make our common stock less attractive to investors. Provisions contained in our organizational documents, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could delay or prevent a change of control of us, which could adversely affect the price of shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our Board. Our corporate governance documents include provisions that:•provide that special meetings of our stockholders generally can only be called by the chairman of the Board or the president or by resolution of the Board; •provide our Board the ability to issue undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may grant preferred holders super voting, special approval, dividend or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holder of common stock;•provide our Board the ability to issue common stock and warrants within the amount of authorized capital; 52•provide that, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock with respect to such series of preferred stock, any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of our stockholders and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such stockholders;•provide that stockholders seeking to bring business before our annual meeting of stockholders, or to nominate candidates for election as directors at our annual meeting of stockholders, generally must provide timely advance notice of their intent in writing and certain other information not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the meeting; and•eliminate the ability of stockholders to act by consent in lieu of a meeting.These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes of control of the Company or changes in our management.As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law. The Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”) provides that stockholders are not entitled the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors unless a corporation's certificate of incorporation provides otherwise. Our certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors. We are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a public Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination (as defined in such section) with an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of such corporation or any person affiliated with such person) for a period of three years following the time that such stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless (i) prior to such time, the board of directors of such corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; (ii) upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of such corporation at the time the transaction commenced (excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) the voting stock owned by directors who are also officers or held in employee benefit plans in which the employees do not have a confidential right to tender or vote stock held by the plan); or (iii) on or subsequent to such time the business combination is approved by the board of directors of such corporation and authorized at a meeting of stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock of such corporation not owned by the interested stockholder. In addition, Wisconsin's insurance regulations generally provide that no person may acquire control of us unless the transaction in which control is acquired has been approved by the Wisconsin OCI. The regulations provide for a rebuttable presumption of control when a person owns or has the right to vote more than 10% of the voting securities. In addition, the insurance regulations of other states in which NMIC and/or Re One are licensed insurers require notification to the state's insurance department a specified time before a person acquires control of us. If regulators in these states disapprove the change of control, our licenses to conduct business in the disapproving states could be terminated. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law or under the Wisconsin insurance regulation that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for shares of our common stock. 53Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.