D. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Form 20-F. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 2 We are a blank check company in the development stage with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a blank check company with no operating results, and we will not commence operations until consummating our initial business combination. Because we lack an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing our initial business combination with one or more target businesses. We have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective target business concerning our initial business combination and may be unable to complete our initial business combination. If we fail to complete our initial business combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. Our public shareholders may not be afforded an opportunity to vote on our proposed business combination, unless such vote is required by law or the NASDAQ Capital Market, which means we may consummate our initial business combination even though a majority of our public shareholders do not support such a combination. We may not hold a shareholder vote before we consummate our initial business combination unless the business combination would require shareholder approval under British Virgin Islands law or the rules of the NASDAQ Capital Market or if we decide to hold a shareholder vote for business reasons. Accordingly, we may consummate our initial business combination even if holders of a majority of our public shares do not approve of the business combination we consummate. Your only opportunity to affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination will be limited to the exercise of your right to redeem your shares from us for cash, unless we seek shareholder approval of the business combination. Our board of directors may consummate an initial business combination without seeking shareholder approval, unless the business combination would require shareholder approval under British Virgin Islands law or the rules of the NASDAQ Capital Market or if we decide to hold a shareholder vote for business reasons. Accordingly, public shareholders may not have the right or opportunity to vote on the business combination. As a result, your only opportunity to affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination may be limited to exercising your redemption rights within the period of time (which will be at least 20 business days) set forth in our tender offer documents mailed to our public shareholders in which we describe our business combination. The ability of our public shareholders to redeem their shares for cash may make our financial condition unattractive to potential business combination targets, which may make it difficult for us to enter into a business combination with a target. We may enter into a transaction agreement with a prospective target that requires as a closing condition that we have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash. If too many public shareholders exercise their redemption rights, we may not be able to meet such closing condition, and as a result, would not be able to proceed with the business combination. Furthermore, in no event will we redeem our public shares in an amount that would cause our net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association requires us to provide all of our public shareholders with an opportunity to redeem all of their shares in connection with the consummation of any initial business combination, although our initial shareholders (as that term is defined in Item 4.A of this Form 20-F), officers and directors have agreed to waive their redemption rights with respect to their founder shares and public shares in connection with the consummation of an initial business combination. Consequently, if accepting all properly submitted redemption requests would cause our net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001 or such greater amount necessary to satisfy a closing condition as described above, we would not proceed with such redemption and the related business combination and may instead search for an alternate business combination. Prospective targets would be aware of these risks and, thus, may be reluctant to enter into a business combination transaction with us. 3 The ability of a large number of our shareholders to exercise redemption rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. In connection with the successful consummation of our business combination, we may redeem pursuant to a tender offer up to that number of ordinary shares that would permit us to maintain net tangible assets of $5,000,001. If our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, the redemption threshold may be further limited. Alternatively, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such redemption, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of shareholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect or if a target business requires a minimum level of cash funding upon closing of our business combination. If the acquisition involves the issuance of our shares as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our shares to the target or its shareholders to make up for the failure to satisfy a minimum cash requirement. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. The requirement that we maintain a minimum net worth or retain a certain amount of cash could increase the probability that our business combination would be unsuccessful and that you would have to wait for liquidation in order to redeem your shares. If, pursuant to the terms of our proposed business combination, we are required to maintain a minimum net worth or retain a certain amount of cash in trust in order to consummate the business combination, the probability that our business combination would be unsuccessful is increased. If our business combination is unsuccessful, you would not receive your pro rata portion of the trust account until we liquidate. If you are in need of immediate liquidity, you could attempt to sell your shares in the open market; however, at such time our shares may trade at a discount to the pro rata amount in our trust account. In either situation, you may suffer a material loss on your investment or lose the benefit of funds expected in connection with our redemption until we liquidate or you are able to sell your shares in the open market. We may not be able to consummate our initial business combination by January 24, 2014 (or April 24, 2014 if we take advantage of the full 90-day extension), in which case we would cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up and we would redeem our public shares and liquidate. We must complete our initial business combination by January 24, 2014 (or April 24, 2014 if we take advantage of a 90-day extension that is available to us). We may not be able to find a suitable target business and consummate our initial business combination within such time period. If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination such dates, we will, as promptly as reasonably possible but no more than ten business days thereafter, distribute the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account, pro rata to our public shareholders by way of redemption and cease all operations except for the purposes of winding up of our affairs, as further described herein. This redemption of public shareholders from the trust account shall be done automatically by function of our memorandum and articles of association and prior to any voluntary winding up. The requirement that we complete our initial business combination within certain time limits may give potential target businesses leverage over us in negotiating a business combination and may decrease our ability to conduct due diligence on potential business combination targets as we approach our dissolution deadline, which could undermine our ability to consummate our initial business combination on terms that would produce value for our shareholders. 4 We have until January 24, 2014 (or April 24, 2014 if we take advantage of the 90-day extension available to us) to consummate our initial business combination. Any potential target business with which we enter into negotiations concerning our initial business combination will be aware that we must consummate our initial business combination within such time periods. Consequently, such target businesses may obtain leverage over us in negotiating our initial business combination, knowing that if we do not complete our initial business combination with that particular target business, we may be unable to complete our initial business combination with any target business. This risk will increase as we get closer to the timeframe described above. In addition, we may have limited time to conduct due diligence and may enter into our initial business combination on terms that we would have rejected upon a more comprehensive investigation. If we are no longer a foreign private issuer (“FPI”) and seek shareholder approval of our initial business combination, we, our initial shareholders, directors, officers, advisors and their affiliates may elect to purchase shares from shareholders, in which case we or they may influence a vote in favor of a proposed business combination that you do not support. If we are no longer an FPI and seek shareholder approval of our business combination and we do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, we may enter into privately negotiated transactions to purchase public shares following consummation of the business combination from shareholders who would have otherwise elected to have their shares redeemed in conjunction with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules. Our initial shareholders, directors, officers or their affiliates may also purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions (in addition to the open market purchases described herein) either prior to or following the consummation of our initial business combination. Neither we nor our initial shareholders, directors, officers or their affiliates will make any such purchases when we or they are in possession of any material non-public information not disclosed to the seller. Such a purchase would include a contractual acknowledgement that such shareholder agrees not to exercise its redemption rights. In the event that we or our initial shareholders, directors, officers or their affiliates purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions from public shareholders who have already elected to exercise their redemption rights, such selling shareholders would be required to revoke their prior elections to redeem their shares. Although we do not currently anticipate paying any premium purchase price (over trust value) for such public shares, in the event we do, the payment of a premium may not be in the best interest of those shareholders not receiving any such premium because such shareholders will experience a reduction in book value per share compared to the value received by shareholders that have their shares purchased by us at a premium. Nevertheless, because any payment of a premium by us will be made only from proceeds released to us from the trust account following completion of a business combination, no such payments will reduce the per share amounts available in the trust account for redemption in connection with the business combination. The purpose of such purchases would be to: (1) increase the likelihood of obtaining shareholder approval of the business combination because there would be fewer shares outstanding held by shareholders that might have had the intention of seeking redemption rights following such repurchases or (2) where the purchases are made by our initial shareholders, directors, officers or their affiliates, to satisfy a closing condition in an agreement with a target that requires us to have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash at the closing of the business combination, where it appears that such requirement would otherwise not be met. This may result in the consummation of an initial business combination that may not otherwise have been possible and/or which the majority of our shareholders would not have approved. Our purchases of ordinary shares in privately negotiated transactions would reduce the funds available to us after the business combination. 5 If we are no longer an FPI and seek shareholder approval of our business combination and we do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, we may privately negotiate transactions to purchase shares effective immediately following the consummation of the business combination from shareholders who would have otherwise elected to have their shares redeemed in conjunction with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules with proceeds released to us from the trust account immediately following consummation of our initial business combination. As a consequence of such purchases, the funds in our trust account that are so used will not be available to us after the business combination. If the public “float” of our ordinary shares and the number of beneficial holders of our securities is reduced, we may not be able to continue to list our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Capital Market or another national securities exchange. If we or our initial shareholders, directors, officers or their affiliates purchase ordinary shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, the public “float” of our ordinary shares and the number of beneficial holders of our securities would both be reduced. Additionally, if we take advantage of the 90-day extension to complete our initial business combination and a substantial number of our public shareholders seek redemption of their shares, the public “float” of our ordinary shares and the number of beneficial holders of our securities would be reduced. If the number of our public holders falls below 300, we will be non-compliant with the NASDAQ Capital Market’s continued listing rules and could be subject to delisting. Accordingly, we cannot assure you we will be able to maintain the listing or trading of our securities on a national securities exchange. You will not have any rights or interests in funds from the trust account, except under certain limited circumstances. To liquidate your investment, therefore, you may be forced to sell your public shares or warrants, potentially at a loss. Our public shareholders shall be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only in the event of a redemption to public shareholders prior to any winding up in the event we do not consummate our initial business combination or our liquidation, if they redeem their shares in connection with us taking advantage of the 90-day extension to complete a business combination or if they redeem their shares pursuant to a tender offer in connection with an initial business combination that we consummate as described elsewhere in this Form 20-F and our IPO prospectus. In no other circumstances will a shareholder have any right or interest of any kind to the funds in the trust account. Warrant holders will have no right to any of the funds held in the trust account. Accordingly, you may be forced to sell your public shares or warrants, potentially at a loss, to liquidate your investment in our securities. If we are no longer an FPI and we seek shareholder approval of our business combination and we do not conduct redemptions pursuant to the tender offer rules, public shareholders, together with any affiliates of theirs or any other person with whom they are acting in concert or as a “group,” will be restricted from seeking redemption rights with respect to more than 19.9% of the ordinary shares sold in our IPO. If we are no longer an FPI and seek shareholder approval of our initial business combination and we do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, our memorandum and articles of association provides that a public shareholder, individually or together with any affiliate of such shareholder or any other person with whom such shareholder is acting in concert or as a “group” (as defined under Section 13 of the Exchange Act), will be restricted from seeking redemption rights with respect to more than an aggregate of 19.9% of the shares sold in our IPO. Your inability to redeem more than an aggregate of 19.9% of the shares sold in our IPO will reduce your influence over our ability to consummate our initial business combination. As a result, you will continue to hold that number of shares exceeding 19.9% and, in order to dispose of such shares, you would be required to sell your shares in open market transaction, potentially at a loss, which may be material. 6 Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, it may be difficult for us to complete our initial business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies and other entities, domestic and international, competing for the types of businesses we intend to acquire. Many of these individuals and entities are well-established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting, directly or indirectly, acquisitions of companies operating in or providing services to various industries. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe there are numerous target businesses we could potentially acquire with the net proceeds of our IPO, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target businesses that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. As a result, we may not be able to complete our initial business combination. If the net proceeds of our IPO not being held in the trust account, together with the interest in the trust account (net of taxes payable) which may be released to us for working capital purposes, are insufficient to allow us to operate for at least the 18 month period following our IPO, we may be unable to complete our initial business combination. Based on the current interest rate environment, we believe the proceeds placed in the trust account will produce at least $75,000 in interest over our up to 18 month existence (assuming we take advantage of the 90-day extension period available to us); however, this estimate may not be accurate. The funds available to us outside of the trust account, plus the interest earned on the funds held in the trust account that may be available to us, may not be sufficient to allow us to operate for at least the next 18 months, assuming that our initial business combination is not consummated during that time. Interest rates on permissible investments for us have been significantly less than 1% over the last several months. Accordingly, if we do not earn a sufficient amount of interest on the funds held in the trust account and use all of the funds held outside of the trust account, we may not have sufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our initial shareholders, officers or directors or other available source to operate or we may be forced to liquidate. Such individuals are under no obligation to loan us any funds. Subsequent to the consummation of our initial business combination, we may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our shares price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, this diligence may not surface all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, that it would be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary amount of due diligence, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. As a result of these factors, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even if our due diligence successfully identifies certain risks, unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. 7 If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per-share redemption amount received by shareholders may be less than approximately $10.33 per share. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, service providers, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we do business execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public shareholders, such parties may not execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements they may not be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account, including, but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain advantage with respect to a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refuses to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, our management will perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and will only enter into an agreement with a third party that has not executed a waiver if management believes that such third party’s engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refuses to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a service provider willing to execute a waiver. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Upon redemption of our public shares, if we are unable to complete our initial business combination within the required time frame, or upon the exercise of a redemption right in connection with our initial business combination, we will be required to provide for payment of claims of creditors that were not waived that may be brought against us within the 10 years following redemption. By letter agreement executed in connection with our IPO, Koji Fusa, our Chief Executive Officer, and Andrew Williams, our Chairman of the Board, have agreed that they will be jointly and severally liable to us, if and to the extent any claims by a vendor for services rendered or products sold to us, or a prospective target business with which we have discussed entering into a business combination, reduce the amounts in the trust account to below approximately $10.33 per share except as to any claims by a third party who executed a waiver of any and all rights to seek access to the trust account (even if such waiver is deemed to be unenforceable) and except as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our IPO against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. However, we have not asked Messrs. Fusa or Williams to reserve for such indemnification obligations and he may not be able to satisfy those obligations. We have not independently verified whether Messrs. Fusa or Williams has sufficient funds to satisfy the potential indemnity obligation and, therefore, they may not be able to satisfy the obligation. We believe the likelihood of Messrs. Fusa and Williams having to indemnify the trust account is limited because we will endeavor to have all vendors and prospective target businesses as well as other entities execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to monies held in the trust account. 8 If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete our initial business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, our activities may be restricted, including: ● restrictions on the nature of our investments; and ● restrictions on the issuance of securities, each of which may make it difficult for us to complete our initial business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: ● registration as an investment company; ● adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and ● reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. If we were deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expenses for which we have not allotted funds and may hinder our ability to consummate our initial business combination. Changes in laws or regulations, or a failure to comply with any laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business, investments and results of operations. We are subject to laws and regulations enacted by national, regional and local governments. In particular, we will be required to comply with certain SEC and other legal requirements. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws and regulations may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws and regulations and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, as interpreted and applied, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are not subject to the supervision of the Financial Services Commission of the British Virgin Islands and so our shareholders are not protected by any regulatory inspections in the British Virgin Islands. Our proposed business activities do not fall within the scope of the financial services activities which are regulated by the Financial Services Commission of the British Virgin Islands and it is not necessary for this Registration Statement to be filed with or approved by the Financial Services Commission of the British Virgin Islands. Accordingly, our business activities are not subject to any regulatory supervision in the British Virgin Islands by the Financial Services Commission of the British Virgin Islands. As a result, shareholders are not protected by any regulatory supervision or inspections by any regulatory agency in the British Virgin Islands which might otherwise apply to entities whose business activities were required to be regulated by the Financial Services Commission of the British Virgin Islands and the company is not required to observe any British Virgin Islands specific regulatory restrictions in respect of its conduct. 9 If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination, our public shareholders may be forced to wait up to 18 months before redemption from our trust account. If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination by January 24, 2014 and do not seek a 90-day extension to complete such business combination as described elsewhere in this Form 20-F, we will, as promptly as reasonably possible but no more than ten business days thereafter, distribute the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account, pro rata to our public shareholders by way of redemption and cease all operations except for the purposes of winding up of our affairs, as further described herein. Any redemption of public shareholders from the trust account shall be effected automatically by function of our memorandum and articles of association and will occur prior to any voluntary winding up. We have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to the date of our redemption or liquidation unless we consummate our initial business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where investors have sought to redeem their ordinary shares. Only upon our redemption or any liquidation will public shareholders be entitled to distributions if we are unable to complete our initial business combination. If we are deemed to be insolvent, distributions, or part of them, may be delayed while the insolvency liquidator determines the extent of potential creditor claims. In these circumstances, prior payments made by us may be deemed “voidable transactions.” If we do not complete our initial business combination by January 24, 2014 (or April 24, 2014 if we take advantage of the full 90-day extension), this will trigger an automatic redemption of public shareholders from the trust account pursuant to our memorandum and articles of association. However, if at any time we are deemed insolvent for the purposes of the British Virgin Islands Insolvency Act, 2003 (the “Insolvency Act”) (i.e., (i) we fail to comply with the requirements of a statutory demand that has not been set aside under section 157 of the Insolvency Act; (ii) execution or other process issued on a judgment, decree or order of a British Virgin Islands court in favor of any of our creditors is returned wholly or partly unsatisfied; or (iii) either the value of our liabilities exceeds our assets, or we are unable to pay our debts as they fall due), we are required to immediately enter insolvent liquidation. In these circumstances, a liquidator will be appointed who will give notice to our creditors inviting them to submit their claims for payment, by notifying known creditors (if any) who have not submitted claims and by placing a public advertisement in the British Virgin Islands Official Gazette and a British Virgin Islands newspaper, and taking any other steps he considers appropriate, after which our assets would be distributed. As soon as practicable after completing his duties in relation to the liquidation of a company, the liquidator is required to send his final report and a statement of realizations and distributions to the creditors and members of the company and to the Registrar of Corporate Affairs in the British Virgin Islands (the “Registrar”). He is also required to provide the creditors and the members with a summary of the grounds upon which a creditor or member may object to the striking of the company from the register. The liquidator may determine that he requires additional time to evaluate creditors’ claims (particularly if there is uncertainty over the validity or extent of the claims of any creditors). Also, a creditor or shareholder may file a petition with the British Virgin Islands court which, if successful, may result in our liquidation being subject to the supervision of that court. Such events might delay distribution of some or all of our assets to our public shareholders. In such liquidation proceedings, the funds held in our trust account may be included in our estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our shareholders. To the extent any such claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public shareholders the amounts otherwise payable to them. If we are deemed insolvent, then there are also limited circumstances where prior payments made to our shareholders or other parties may be deemed to be a “voidable transaction” for the purposes of the Insolvency Act. A voidable transaction would be, for these purposes, payments made as “unfair preferences” or “transactions at an undervalue.” Where a payment was a risk of being a voidable transaction, a liquidator appointed over an insolvent company could apply to the British Virgin Islands court for an order, inter alia, for the transaction to be set aside as a voidable transaction in whole or in part. Our initial shareholders, officers and directors have waived their right to participate in any liquidation distribution with respect to the initial shares. If we have not consummated an initial business combination within the required time frame, there will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our warrants which will expire worthless. We will pay the costs of our liquidation and distribution of the trust account from our remaining assets outside of the trust account. In addition, Messrs. Fusa and Williams have agreed that they will be jointly and severally liable to us, for all claims of creditors to the extent that we fail to obtain executed waivers from such entities in order to protect the amounts held in trust, except as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our IPO against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. However, we cannot assure you that the liquidator will not determine that he or she requires additional time to evaluate creditors’ claims (particularly if there is uncertainty over the validity or extent of the claims of any creditors). We also cannot assure you that a creditor or shareholder will not file a petition with the British Virgin Islands court which, if successful, may result in our liquidation being subject to the supervision of that court. Such events might delay distribution of some or all of our assets to our public shareholders. If deemed to be insolvent, distributions made to public shareholders, or part of them, from our trust account may be subject to claw back in certain circumstances. If we do not complete our initial business combination by January 24, 2014 (or April 24, 2014 if we take advantage of the full 90-day extension), and instead distribute the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account, pro rata to our public shareholders by way of redemption, it will be necessary for our directors to pass a board resolution approving the redemption of those ordinary shares and the payment of the proceeds to public shareholders. Such board resolutions are required to confirm that we satisfy the solvency test prescribed by the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004 of the British Virgin Islands (the “Companies Act”), (namely that our assets exceed our liabilities; and that we are able to pay our debts as they fall due). If, after the redemption proceeds are paid to public shareholders, it transpires that our financial position at the time was such that it did not satisfy the solvency test, the Companies Act provides a mechanism by which those proceeds could be recovered from public shareholders. However, the Companies Act also provides for circumstances where such proceeds could not be subject to claw back, namely where (a) the public shareholders received the proceeds in good faith and without knowledge of our failure to satisfy the solvency test; (b) a public shareholder altered its position in reliance of the validity of the payment of the proceeds; or (c) it would be unfair to require repayment of the proceeds in full or at all. 10 The grant of registration rights to our initial shareholders and holders of the insider warrants may make it more difficult to complete our initial business combination, and the future exercise of such rights may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Pursuant to an agreement entered into concurrently with the issuance and sale of the securities in our IPO, our initial shareholders can demand that we register the founder shares, the insider warrants and the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the insider warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of working capital loans. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make our initial business combination more costly or difficult to conclude. This is because the shareholders of the target business may increase the equity stake they seek in the combined entity or ask for more cash consideration to offset the negative impact on the market price of our ordinary shares that is expected when the securities owned by our initial shareholders are registered. Because we have not selected a particular business or geographic focus or any specific target businesses with which to pursue our initial business combination, you will be unable to ascertain the merits or risks of any particular target business’ operations. We may pursue acquisition opportunities in any industry or geographic region we choose, although we initially intend to focus our search for target businesses with operations primarily in Japan or that are operating outside of Japan but are Japanese owned. Because we have not yet identified or approached any specific target business with respect to our initial business combination, there is no basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any particular target business’s operations, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, financial condition or prospects. To the extent we consummate our initial business combination, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations with which we combine. For example, if we combine with a financially unstable business or an entity lacking an established record of sales or earnings, we may be affected by the risks inherent in the business and operations of a financially unstable or a development stage entity. Although our officers and directors will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we may not properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors or that we will have adequate time to complete due diligence. Furthermore, some of these risks may be outside of our control and leave us with no ability to control or reduce the chances that those risks will adversely impact a target business. An investment in our units may not ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if such opportunity were available, in an acquisition target. 11 We may seek investment opportunities outside of our management’s area of expertise and our management may not be able to adequately ascertain or assess all significant risks associated with the target company. There is no limitation on the geography, industry or business sector we may consider when contemplating our initial business combination. We may therefore be presented with a business combination candidate in an industry unfamiliar to our management team, but determine that such candidate offers an attractive investment opportunity for our company. In the event we elect to pursue an investment outside of our management’s expertise, our management’s experience may not be directly applicable to the target business or their evaluation of its operations. Although we identified general criteria and guidelines that we believe are important in evaluating prospective target businesses, we may enter into our initial business combination with a target that does not meet such criteria and guidelines, and as a result, the target business with which we enter into our initial business combination may not have attributes entirely consistent with our general criteria and guidelines. Although we have identified specific criteria and guidelines for evaluating prospective target businesses, it is possible that a target business with which we enter into our initial business combination will not have all of these positive attributes. If we consummate our initial business combination with a target that does not meet some or all of these guidelines, such combination may not be as successful as a combination with a business that does meet all of our general criteria and guidelines. In addition, if we announce our initial business combination with a target that does not meet our general criteria and guidelines, a greater number of shareholders may exercise their redemption rights, which may make it difficult for us to meet any closing condition with a target business that requires us to have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash. In addition, if we are no longer an FPI and shareholder approval of the transaction is required by law, the NASDAQ Capital Market or we decide to obtain shareholder approval for business reasons, it may be more difficult for us to attain shareholder approval of our initial business combination if the target business does not meet our general criteria and guidelines. We are only required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm in certain situations, and consequently, an independent source may not confirm that the price we are paying for the business is fair to our shareholders from a financial point of view. Unless we consummate our initial business combination with an affiliated entity or we partner, submit joint bids or enter into any similar transaction with our initial shareholders, or an affiliate of our initial shareholders, in the pursuit of an initial business combination, we are not required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that the price we are paying is fair to our shareholders from a financial point of view. If no opinion is obtained, our shareholders will be relying on the judgment of our board of directors, who will determine fair market value and/or total enterprise value according to reasonably accepted valuation standards and methodologies. Such standards and methodologies used will be disclosed in our tender offer documents or proxy solicitation materials, as applicable, related to our initial business combination. Our board of directors may not accurately gauge the fairness of the price we are paying to a potential target business. 12 We may issue additional equity or debt securities, which would dilute the interest of our shareholders and likely cause a change of control of our ownership. Our memorandum and articles of association authorize the issuance of an unlimited amount of both ordinary shares of no par value and preferred shares of no par value. We may issue a substantial number of additional ordinary or preferred shares to complete our initial business combination or after consummation of our initial business combination. The issuance of additional ordinary or preferred shares: ● may significantly dilute the equity interest of current investors; ● may subordinate the rights of holders of ordinary shares if preferred shares are issued with rights senior to those afforded our ordinary shares; ● could cause a change in control if a substantial number of ordinary shares is issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and ● may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our units, ordinary shares and/or warrants. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: ● default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; ● acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; ● our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and ● our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we may not issue any ordinary shares or any securities convertible into ordinary shares or any securities which participate in or are otherwise entitled in any manner to any of the proceeds in the trust account. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. We anticipate that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If we decide not to complete a specific initial business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, if we reach an agreement relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate our initial business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. 13 We may qualify as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC,” which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder (as defined in Item 10.E of this Form 20-F under the section captioned “United States Federal Income Taxation — General”) of our ordinary shares or warrants, the U.S. Holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Our PFIC status for any taxable year, however, will not be determinable until after the end of such taxable year. Accordingly, there can be no assurance with respect to our status as a PFIC for our current taxable year or any subsequent taxable year. In addition, we may not provide timely financial information that would be required for U.S. investors to make a potentially favorable “qualified electing fund” election, and such election would be unavailable with respect to our warrants in all cases. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. For a more detailed explanation of the tax consequences of PFIC classification to U.S. Holders, see the section of Item 10.E of this Form 20-F captioned “United States Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” An investor may be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences in the event the Internal Revenue Service were to disagree with the U.S. federal income tax consequences described herein. As described in the section of Item 10.E of this Form 20-F captioned “United States Federal Income Taxation — General,” we have not sought a ruling from the IRS as to any U.S. federal income tax consequences described herein. The IRS may disagree with the descriptions of U.S. federal income tax consequences contained herein, and its determination may be upheld by a court. Any such determination could subject an investor or our company to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences that would be different than those described herein. Accordingly, each prospective investor is urged to consult a tax advisor with respect to the specific tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership and disposition of our ordinary shares, warrants and units, including the applicability and effect of state, local or non-U.S. tax laws, as well as U.S. federal tax laws. If any dividend is declared in the future and paid in a foreign currency, you may be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. If you are a U.S. holder, you will be taxed on the U.S. dollar value of your dividends, if any, at the time you receive them, even if you actually receive a smaller amount of U.S. dollars when the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Specifically, if a dividend is declared and paid in a foreign currency, and the amount of the dividend distribution that you must include in your income as a U.S. holder will be the U.S. dollar value of the payments made in the foreign currency, determined at the spot rate of the foreign currency to the U.S. dollar on the date the dividend distribution is includible in your income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Thus, if the value of the foreign currency decreases before you actually convert the currency into U.S. dollars, you will be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. After our initial business combination, it is likely that a majority of our directors and officers will live outside the United States and a majority of our assets will be located outside the United States; therefore investors may not be able to enforce federal securities laws or their other legal rights. It is likely that after our initial business combination, a majority of our directors and officers will reside outside of the United States and a majority of our assets will be located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult, or in some cases not possible, for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon all of our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties on our directors and officers under United States laws. 14 We are dependent upon our officers and directors and their loss could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of individuals and, in particular, our officers and directors. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our officers and directors, at least until we have consummated our initial business combination. However, our officers and directors are not required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential business combinations and monitoring the related due diligence. Additionally, certain of our officers and directors engage in consulting and advisory activities. All of the above could cause our officers and directors to not spend the requisite time pursuing our potential targets for our initial business combination. Furthermore, we do not have an employment agreement with, or key-man insurance on the life of, any of our directors or officers. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of our directors or officers, or their spending less time than anticipated on our activities, could have a detrimental effect on us and our ability to consummate our initial business combination. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination and to be successful thereafter will be largely dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following our initial business combination. The loss of key personnel could negatively impact the operations and profitability of our post-combination business. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The role of our key personnel in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following our initial business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after our initial business combination, our assessment of these individuals may not prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a company regulated by the SEC, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following our initial business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous. Our key personnel may be able to remain with the company after the consummation of our initial business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to us after the consummation of the business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. However, we believe the ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of our initial business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. There is no certainty, however, that any of our key personnel will remain with us after the consummation of our initial business combination. Our key personnel may not remain in senior management or advisory positions with us. The determination as to whether any of our key personnel will remain with us will be made at the time of our initial business combination. We may have a limited ability to assess the management of a prospective target business and, as a result, may effect our initial business combination with a target business whose management may not have the skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company. When evaluating the desirability of effecting our initial business combination with a prospective target business, our ability to assess the target business’ management may be limited due to a lack of time, resources or information. Our assessment of the capabilities of the target’s management, therefore, may prove to be incorrect and such management may lack the skills, qualifications or abilities we suspected. Should the target’s management not possess the skills, qualifications or abilities necessary to manage a public company, the operations and profitability of the post-combination business may be negatively impacted. 15 Certain of our officers and directors are now, and all of them may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We intend to engage in the business of identifying and combining with one or more target businesses. Although our officers and directors have agreed not to participate in the formation of, or become an officer or director of, any other similarly structured blank check company focusing on consummating an initial business combination with a target business in Japan until we have entered into a definitive agreement regarding our initial business combination or we have failed to complete our initial business combination by January 24, 2014 (or April 24, 2014 if we take advantage of the full 90-day extension), they may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe certain fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor, and as a result, a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us. We may engage in our initial business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships with entities that may be affiliated with our executive officers, directors or initial shareholders which may raise potential conflicts of interest. In light of the involvement of our initial shareholders, officers and directors with other entities, we may decide to acquire one or more businesses affiliated with our initial shareholders, officers or directors. Our directors also serve as officers and board members for other entities. Although we will not be specifically focusing on, or targeting, any transaction with any affiliated entities, we would pursue such a transaction if we determined that such affiliated entity met our criteria for our initial business combination as set forth in Item 4.B of this Form 20-F entitled “Effecting our initial business combination — Selection of a target business and structuring of our initial business combination” and such transaction was approved by a majority of our disinterested directors. Despite our agreement to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm regarding the fairness to our shareholders from a financial point of view of a business combination with one or more target businesses affiliated with our executive officers, directors or initial shareholders, potential conflicts of interest still may exist and, as a result, the terms of the business combination may not be as advantageous to our public shareholders as they would be absent any conflicts of interest. Our officers’ and directors’ personal and financial interests may influence their motivation in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors own ordinary shares that were issued prior to our IPO and purchased insider warrants upon consummation of our IPO. Such individuals have waived their right to receive distributions from the trust account with respect to their founder shares if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Accordingly, the founder shares acquired prior to our IPO, as well as the insider warrants, and any warrants purchased by our officers or directors in our IPO or in the aftermarket will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our shareholders’ best interest. 16 We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our IPO, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number of products or services. This lack of diversification may negatively impact our operations and profitability. We will use the net proceeds from our IPO to complete our initial business combination. We may effectuate our initial business combination with a single target business or multiple target businesses simultaneously. However, we may not be able to effectuate our initial business combination with more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. By consummating our initial business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: ● solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, property or asset, or ● dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to our initial business combination. We may attempt to simultaneously consummate business combinations with multiple prospective targets, which may hinder our ability to consummate our initial business combination and give rise to increased costs and risks that could negatively impact our operations and profitability. If we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses that are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete our initial business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. We may structure a business combination to acquire less than a majority of the equity interests of the target business. We anticipate structuring our initial business combination to acquire 100% of the equity interest or assets of the target business or businesses. We may, however, structure our initial business combination to acquire less than 100% of such interests or assets of the target business. We may even structure a business combination to acquire less than a majority of the equity interests of the target, but we will only consummate such a business combination if we are not required to register as an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act. If we own less than a majority of the equity interests of the target business, and the target business does not perform in accordance with our expectations, we may not be able to change the management of the target or take other measures to improve the performance of the target that would generally be available to a majority shareholder. 17 We may attempt to consummate our initial business combination with a private company about which little information is available, which may result in our initial business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we suspected, if at all. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may seek to effectuate our initial business combination with a privately held company. By definition, very little public information exists about private companies, and we could be required to make our decision on whether to pursue a potential initial business combination on the basis of limited information, which may result in our initial business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we suspected, if at all. Unlike many blank check companies, we do not have a specified maximum redemption threshold. The absence of such a redemption threshold will make it easier for us to consummate our initial business combination with which a substantial majority of our shareholders do not agree. Since we have no specified percentage threshold for redemption contained in our memorandum and articles of association, our structure is different in this respect from the structure that has been used by many blank check companies. Many blank check companies would not be able to consummate an initial business combination if the holders of the company’s public shares voted against a proposed business combination and elected to redeem or convert more than a specified percentage of the shares sold in such company’s initial public offering, which percentage threshold has typically been between 19.99% and 39.99%. As a result, many blank check companies have been unable to complete business combinations because the amount of shares voted by their public shareholders electing conversion exceeded the maximum conversion threshold pursuant to which such company could proceed with our initial business combination. As a result, we may be able to consummate our initial business combination even though a substantial majority of our public shareholders do not agree with the transaction and have redeemed their shares or, if we are no longer an FPI and we seek shareholder approval of our initial business combination and do not conduct redemptions in connection with our business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, shareholders that would otherwise vote against the transaction may be able to enter into privately negotiated agreements to sell their shares to us or our initial shareholders, officers, directors, advisors or their affiliates. However, in no event will we redeem our public shares in an amount that would cause our net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001. Furthermore, the redemption threshold may be further limited by the terms and conditions of our initial business combination. In such case, we would not proceed with the redemption of our public shares and the related business combination, and instead may search for an alternate business combination. We have not registered the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants under the Securities Act or states securities laws at this time, and such registration may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise its warrants and causing such warrants to expire worthless. We have not registered the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants under the Securities Act or any state securities laws at this time. If the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants are not registered under the Securities Act, we will be required to permit holders to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis under certain circumstances specified in the warrant agreement. However, no warrant will be exercisable for cash or on a cashless basis, and we will not be obligated to issue any shares to holders seeking to exercise their warrants, unless the issuance of the shares upon such exercise is registered or qualified under the securities laws of the state of the exercising holder, unless an exemption is available. If the issuance of the shares upon exercise of the warrants is not so registered or qualified, such warrant may have no value and expire worthless. In no event will we be required to net cash settle any warrant. 18 The exercise price for the public warrants is higher than in many similar blank check company offerings in the past, and, accordingly, the warrants are more likely to expire worthless. The exercise price of the warrants is higher than is typical in many similar blank check companies. Historically, the exercise price of a warrant was generally less than the purchase price of the units in the initial public offering. The exercise price for our public warrants is $11.50 per share. As a result, the warrants are less likely to ever be in the money and more likely to expire worthless. The provisions of our memorandum and articles of association that relate to us entering into a business combination may be amended with the affirmative vote of holders holding at least 65% of our outstanding shares that have voted on such amendment and are entitled to vote, which is a lower amendment threshold than that of many blank check companies. It may be easier for us, therefore, to amend our memorandum and articles of association to facilitate the consummation of an initial business combination that our shareholders may not support. Many blank check companies have a provision in their charter which prohibits the amendment of certain of its provisions, including those which relate to a company’s pre-business combination activity, without approval by a certain percentage of the company’s shareholders. Typically, amendment of these provisions requires approval by between 90% and 100% of the company’s public shareholders. Our memorandum and articles of association provides that any of its provisions, including those related to pre-business combination activity, may be amended if approved by the affirmative vote of holders holding at least 65% (or 50% if approved in connection with our initial business combination) of our outstanding shares that have voted on such amendment and are entitled to vote. In addition, our memorandum and articles of association, excluding the provisions relating to shareholder’s rights or pre-business combination activity, may be amended with the approval of the directors. Our initial shareholders, who beneficially own 25% of our ordinary shares, will participate in any vote to amend our memorandum and articles of association and will have the discretion to vote in any manner they choose. As a result, we may be able to amend the provisions of our memorandum and articles of association which govern our pre-business combination behavior more easily that many blank check companies, and this may increase our ability to consummate an initial business combination with which our shareholders may not agree. Our memorandum and articles of association (excluding provisions relating to shareholders’ rights or pre-business combination activity) may be unilaterally amended with the approval of directors and without shareholder consent. Our memorandum and articles of association provides that any of its provisions, including those related to pre-business combination activity, may be amended if approved by the affirmative vote of holders holding at least 65% (or 50% if approved in connection with our initial business combination) of our outstanding shares that have voted on such amendment and are entitled to vote, unlike other blank check companies that typically require the approval of between 90% and 100% of their public shares. Our initial shareholders, who beneficially own 25% of our ordinary shares, will participate in any vote to amend our memorandum and articles of association and will have the discretion to vote in any manner they choose. In addition, our memorandum and articles of association also provide that certain provisions may be unilaterally amended with the approval of directors and without shareholder consent. The provisions which may be unilaterally amended in these circumstances are, in general, limited to non-material provisions unrelated to shareholders’ rights and our pre-business combination activity. Material provisions of our memorandum and articles of association which may be amended unilaterally by the directors without shareholder consent are limited to the making of amendments to our memorandum and articles of association in order to issue additional classes of shares which rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and amendments to our corporate governance as it relates to the board of directors (for instance relating to matters such as the size of the board of directors, the requirement for directors to retire by rotation, the requirement for a majority of uninterested directors to approve a related party transaction and the notice periods required to be given to directors in advance of board meetings). 19 Our memorandum and articles of association provide that prior to our initial business combination, if we seek to amend any provisions of our memorandum and articles of association relating to shareholders’ rights or pre-business combination activity not in conjunction with the consummation of our business combination which is approved by shareholders in accordance with the above, we will offer to redeem the shares of any dissenting shareholders, through a tender offer. Holders will have at least 20 days to determine whether to redeem their shares. Our initial shareholders, officers and directors have agreed to waive any redemption rights with respect to any founder shares and any public shares they may hold in connection with any vote to amend our memorandum and articles of association prior to our initial business combination. Notwithstanding our ability to amend the memorandum and articles of association as described above, our obligation to redeem the public shares upon our failure to complete an initial business combination within the allotted time may not be modified. We and our directors and officers have also agreed not to propose any amendment to our memorandum and articles of association that would affect the substance and timing of our obligation to redeem our public shares if we are unable to consummate our initial business combination within 15 months from the closing of our IPO except with respect to the 90-day extension that we may take advantage of as described elsewhere in this Form 20-F. Our initial shareholders control a substantial interest in us and thus may exert a substantial influence on actions requiring a shareholder vote, potentially in a manner that you do not support. Our initial shareholders own 25.0% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. Accordingly, they may exert a substantial influence on actions requiring a shareholder vote, potentially in a manner that you do not support, including amendments to our memorandum and articles of association. If our initial shareholders or members of our management team purchase any additional ordinary shares in the aftermarket of our IPO or in privately negotiated transactions, this would increase their control. Factors that would be considered in making such additional purchases would include consideration of the current trading price of our ordinary shares. In addition, our board of directors, whose members were elected by our initial shareholder, is and will be divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of shareholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial shareholder, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our initial shareholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of our initial business combination. If we do not hold an annual meeting of shareholders until after the consummation of our initial business combination, shareholders will not be afforded an opportunity to elect directors and to discuss company affairs with management until such time. Unless otherwise required by law, the NASDAQ Capital Market or we decide for other business reasons, we do not currently intend to hold an annual meeting of shareholders until after we consummate our initial business combination. If our shareholders want us to hold a meeting prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, they may do so by members holding not less than 30% of voting rights in respect of the matter for which the meeting is requested making a request in writing to the directors in accordance with Section 82 of the Companies Act. Under British Virgin Islands law, we may not increase the required percentage to call a meeting above 30%. Until we hold an annual meeting of shareholders, public shareholders may not be afforded the opportunity to elect directors and to discuss company affairs with management. 20 As an FPI, we are permitted to, and do, rely on exemptions from certain NASDAQ corporate governance standards and SEC rules and regulations applicable to U.S. issuers. This may afford less protection to holders of our securities. As an FPI, we are permitted to, and do, follow home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, which in general require listed companies to have, among other things, a majority independent board of directors, a nominating committee consisting solely of independent directors and establish a formal director nomination process. The corporate governance practice in our home country, the British Virgin Islands, does not require the implementation of a nominating committee or establishment of a formal director nomination process, the formation of an audit committee or if such a committee is formed that it have any specific composition, that a board of directors consist of a majority of independent directors or that independent directors be involved in the determination of executive compensation. We currently rely upon the relevant home country exemptions in lieu of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules with respect to the nominating committee or nomination process, the majority independence of our board of directors, the number of independent directors on the audit committee and the involvement of independent directors in the determination of executive compensation. As an FPI, we are also exempt from the requirement of domestic listed companies on the NASDAQ Capital Market to obtain shareholder approval in the event we seek to issue more than 20% of our outstanding shares in a transaction. Accordingly, less protection may be accorded to our investors than investors in domestic companies listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market. As an FPI, we will also be exempt from certain rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, including those rules and regulations under the Exchange Act related to the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders will be exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we will not be required under the Exchange Act to file annual, quarterly and current reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as domestic companies. We may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders with the approval by the holders of at least a majority of the then outstanding warrants. Our warrants were issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between Continental Transfer & Stock Company, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of a majority of the then outstanding warrants (including the insider warrants) to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of a majority of the then outstanding warrants approve of such amendment. Our initial shareholders own approximately 47% of our outstanding warrants. Therefore, we need approval from only holders of approximately 3% of public warrants to amend the terms of the warrants. Although our ability to amend the terms of the warrants with the consent of a majority of the then outstanding warrants is unlimited, examples of such amendments could be amendments to, among other things, increase the exercise price of the warrants, shorten the exercise period or decrease the number of ordinary shares purchasable upon exercise of a warrant. We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to you, thereby making your warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of the ordinary shares equals or exceeds $17.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading-day period ending on the third business day prior to proper notice of such redemption provided that on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time we redeem the warrants, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus in respect thereof is available. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Redemption of the outstanding warrants could force you (1) to exercise your warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for you to do so, (2) to sell your warrants at the then-current market price when you might otherwise wish to hold your warrants or (3) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of your warrants. None of the insider warrants will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by our initial investors or their permitted transferees. 21 Our warrants and unit purchase option may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares and make it more difficult to effectuate our initial business combination. We issued warrants to purchase 4,200,000 ordinary shares (including the partial exercise the underwriters’ over-allotment option) as part of the units sold in our IPO and, simultaneously with our IPO, we issued in a private placement an aggregate of 3,600,000 insider warrants, each exercisable to purchase one ordinary share at $11.50 per share. In addition, if our officers and directors make any working capital loans, they may convert up to $500,000 of those loans into additional insider warrants at $0.75 per warrant. We also issued a unit purchase option to purchase 400,000 units to the underwriters (and/or their designees) which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of an additional 400,000 warrants. To the extent we issue ordinary shares to effectuate our initial business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional ordinary shares upon exercise of these warrants and unit purchase options could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle to a target business. Such warrants and unit purchase options, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares and reduce the value of the ordinary shares issued to complete the business combination. Therefore, our warrants and unit purchase options may make it more difficult to effectuate our initial business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. Our securities may not continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market in the future, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, a national securities exchange. However, we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market in the future. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, we believe the NASDAQ Capital Market will require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the NASDAQ Capital Market delists our securities, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: ● limited availability of market quotations for our securities; ● reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; ● determination that our ordinary shares are a “penny stock”, which will require brokers trading in our ordinary shares to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market; ● a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and ● a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Because we must furnish our shareholders with target business financial statements, we may lose the ability to complete an otherwise advantageous initial business combination with some prospective target businesses. 22 The United States federal proxy rules require that a proxy statement with respect to a vote on a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports. We will include the same financial statement disclosure in connection with our tender offer documents, whether or not they are required under the tender offer rules. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, and following a business combination will need to be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses we may acquire because some targets may be unable to provide such statements in time for us to disclose such statements in accordance with federal proxy rules and consummate our initial business combination within our 18 month time frame. We may lose our status as an FPI, which will make us subject to additional regulatory disclosures which may require substantial financial and management resources. If we lose our status as an FPI, we will become subject to the following requirements, among others: ● The filing of our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K with the SEC; ● Preparing our financial statements in accordance with GAAP rather than the ability to use any of GAAP, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB IFRS) or local GAAP; ● Being subject to the U.S. proxy rules; ● Being subject to Regulation FD which requires issuers to make public disclosures of any “material non-public information” that has been selectively disclosed to securities industry professionals (for example, analysts) or shareholders; ● Being subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Although the Sarbanes-Oxley Act generally does not distinguish between domestic U.S. issuers and FPIs, the SEC has adopted a number of significant exemptions for the benefit of FPIs in the application of its rules adopted under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These exemptions cover areas such as: (1) audit committee independence; and (2) black-out trading restrictions (Regulation BTR); and ● Being subject to a more detailed executive compensation disclosure. We may be forced expend significant management and financial resources to meet our disclosure obligations to the extent we are required to comply with the foregoing requirements. Compliance obligations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may make it more difficult for us to effectuate our initial business combination, require substantial financial and management resources, and increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls beginning with our Annual Report for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2013. The fact that we are a blank check company makes compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act particularly burdensome on us as compared to all public companies because a target company with which we seek to complete our initial business combination may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of its internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. 23 We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and as such, we are not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and we are exempt from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Additionally, as an emerging growth company, we have elected to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until those standards apply to private companies. As such, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive because we may rely on these provisions. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares and our share price may be more volatile. We may re-incorporate in another jurisdiction in connection with our initial business combination, and the laws of such jurisdiction will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. In connection with our initial business combination, we may relocate the home jurisdiction of our business from the British Virgin Islands to another jurisdiction. If we determine to do this, the laws of such jurisdiction would likely govern all of our material agreements. We cannot assure you that the system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction would be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Any such reincorporation and the international nature of our business will likely subject us to foreign regulation. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under British Virgin Islands law. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against our directors or officers. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Act and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under British Virgin Islands law are to a large extent governed by the Companies Act and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The common law of the British Virgin Islands is derived from English common law, and while the decisions of the English courts are of persuasive authority, they are not binding on a court in the British Virgin Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law may not be as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the British Virgin Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, while statutory provisions do exist in British Virgin Islands law for derivative actions to be brought in certain circumstances, shareholders in British Virgin Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The circumstances in which any such action may be brought, and the procedures and defenses that may be available in respect to any such action, may result in the rights of shareholders of a British Virgin Islands company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Accordingly, shareholders may have fewer alternatives available to them if they believe that corporate wrongdoing has occurred. 24 The British Virgin Islands courts are also unlikely: ● to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; or ● to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the British Virgin Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the British Virgin Islands will in certain circumstances recognize such a foreign judgment and treat it as a cause of action in itself which may be sued upon as a debt at common law so that no retrial of the issues would be necessary provided that: ● the U.S. court issuing the judgment had jurisdiction in the matter and the company either submitted to such jurisdiction or was resident or carrying on business within such jurisdiction and was duly served with process; ● the U.S. judgment is final and for a liquidated sum; ● the judgment given by the U.S. court was not in respect of penalties, taxes, fines or similar fiscal or revenue obligations of the company; ● in obtaining the judgment there was no fraud on the part of the person in whose favor judgment was given or on the part of the court; ● recognition or enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to public policy in the British Virgin Islands; and ● the proceedings pursuant to which the judgment was obtained were not contrary to natural justice. In appropriate circumstances, a British Virgin Islands court may give effect in the British Virgin Islands to other kinds of final foreign judgments such as declaratory orders, orders for performance of contracts and injunctions. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. For a discussion of certain differences between the provisions of the British Virgin Islands Business Companies Act, remedies available to shareholders and the laws applicable to companies incorporated in the United States and their shareholders, see the section of Item 10.B of this Form 20-F captioned “British Virgin Islands Company Considerations.” Our memorandum and articles of association permit the board of directors to create additional classes of securities, including shares with rights, preferences, designations and limitations as they determine which may have an anti-takeover effect. Our memorandum and articles of association permits the board of directors to designate rights, preferences, designations and limitations attaching to the preferred shares as they determine in their discretion, without shareholder approval with respect to the terms or the issuance. If issued, the rights, preferences, designations and limitations of the preferred shares would be set by the board of directors and could operate to the disadvantage of the outstanding ordinary shares. Such terms could include, among others, preferences as to dividends and distributions on liquidation, or could be used to prevent possible corporate takeovers. We may issue some or all of such preferred shares in connection with our initial business combination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any such issuance should not affect the redemption or liquidation rights of our ordinary shareholders. 25 If we deviate in our actions from the disclosure contained in our IPO prospectus, investors may not ultimately receive the same benefits from the IPO that they originally anticipated receiving. Following completion of their initial public offerings, some similarly structured blank check companies have deviated from the disclosure contained in their initial public offering prospectuses in order to consummate their initial business combinations, such as changing minimum transaction value or conversion threshold requirements, paying premiums in open market purchases or by modifying their charters and governing instruments. While we do not anticipate deviating from the disclosure contained in our IPO prospectus, we may do so. Consequently, investors may not receive the same benefits from our IPO that they originally anticipated receiving. In such a situation, it is possible that each investor who purchased units in our IPO and still held such units upon learning of our deviation from the disclosure contained in the prospectus could seek rescission of the purchase of the units he acquired in the offering (under which a successful claimant has the right to receive the total amount paid for his or her securities pursuant to an allegedly deficient prospectus, plus interest and less any income earned on the securities, in exchange for surrender of the securities) or bring an action for damages (compensation for loss on an investment caused by alleged material misrepresentations or omissions in the sale of a security). Risks Related to Target Businesses with Principal Operations in Japan While our efforts to identify a prospective target business will not necessarily be limited to a particular industry or geographic region, we intend to initially focus our search for target businesses on those with principal operations in Japan or that are operating outside of Japan but are Japanese owned. Business combinations with companies with operations in Japan entail special considerations and risks. If we are successful in completing a business combination with a target business with operations in Japan, we will be subject to, and possibly affected by, the risks set forth below. However, our efforts in identifying prospective target businesses will not be limited to a particular geographic location. Accordingly, if we acquire a target business in another geographic location, these risks will likely not affect us and we will be subject to other risks attendant with the specific location in which the target business we acquire operates, none of which can be presently ascertained. The earthquake and resulting tsunami and nuclear power plant crisis that struck Japan in March 2011 could negatively impact potential target businesses. The March 2011 earthquake in Japan and resulting tsunami have caused several nuclear power plants located in Japan to fail and emit radiation and possibly could result in meltdowns that could have catastrophic effects. Although the full effect of these disasters, both on the Japanese and global economies, is not currently known, a number of companies may be negatively impacted by such events. This could limit the number of potential target businesses with which we may seek to complete an initial business combination. If economic conditions throughout the world do not improve, it may impede our ability to establish our operations and implement our growth successfully following consummation of a business combination. Negative trends in the global economy that emerged in 2008 continue to adversely affect global economic conditions. Additionally, there is continued economic turmoil in the Asia Pacific region, especially in Japan and China. As a result, if economic conditions do not improve, it may negatively impact any target business with which we seek to consummate an initial business combination. 26 If we consummate a business combination with a Japanese subsidiary, our operating company in Japan may be subject to restrictions on dividend payments and we may be subject to Japanese withholding taxes in respect of dividends we may receive. If we consummate a business combination with a Japanese subsidiary that is a Stock Company in Japan, we will rely on dividends and other distributions from our operating company to provide us with cash flow and to meet our other obligations. Current regulations in Japan would permit an operating company in Japan to pay dividends to us only out of its accumulated distributable profits that are determined in accordance with regulations under the Corporate Accounting Rules and Companies Act of Japan. However, an operating company is restricted from paying dividends if its net assets are less than 3,000,000 yen. In addition, an operating company in Japan will be required to set aside in its legal reserves an amount equal to at least one-tenth of any dividend payments up to an aggregate amount equal to one-fourth of its stated capital. Additionally, in accordance with the Income Tax Act of Japan, dividends payable by a Japanese corporation to its foreign investors that are non-resident enterprises will generally be subject to a 20% withholding tax (the applicable reduced rate if shares issued by a Japanese corporation are traded on the listed market) which will be further increased due to the special reconstruction income tax on or after January 1, 2013 if such foreign investors do not have any permanent establishment within Japan, to the extent that the dividends are Japan-sourced income, unless such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with Japan that provides for a different withholding arrangement. There is presently no tax treaty between Japan and the British Virgin Islands, where our company was incorporated. As a result, following a business combination, any of our subsidiaries operating in Japan will be required to deduct Japanese withholding tax from dividends distributed to us as the parent entity, meaning that we would have less funds to use in connection with our operations as the parent entity or for distribution to our shareholders. Recent regulations have increased the corporate tax rate in Japan and any increases in the future could impact our financial condition and results of operation following a business combination. To secure funds to support recovery programs for the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011, the Japanese government has enacted the Act on Special Measures for Securing Financial Resources Necessary to Implement Measures for Reconstruction Following the Great East Japan Earthquake and has introduced a special reconstruction corporation tax and special reconstruction income tax. A surtax of 10% of the national corporation tax liability has been added for three fiscal years from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2015. A surtax of 2.1% of the national income tax liability has been added for 25 years from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2037. If we consummate a business combination with a Japanese subsidiary, any increase in our Japanese subsidiary’s tax rate could impact our financial condition and the results of our operations. 