ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - --------------------- Risk factors applying to the Company and its business are as follows: (a) The textile market in the United States has been in substantial decline for at least the past ten years due to fibers, fabrics and apparel being imported from foreign countries where manufacturers can produce the product at much lower cost than in the United States, primarily because of much lower labor costs. The problem has been exacerbated by free trade agreements and particularly the reluctance of the Federal Government to impose duties upon foreign products where the foreign government in effect subsidizes production o products. The Company, whose ustomers are in the textile business, as a yarn processor is faced with a shrinking customer base, as well as the price pressures due to imports faced by the Company's customers. The Company's customer base has been declining as some of its customers close, go into bankruptcy or are bought out by other entities. (b) The Company is a relatively small player in a large market. Many of the Company's competitors are divisions or segments of larger or diversified entities with far greater financial resources than those of the Company. (c) The last fiscal year in which the Company made a profit was the fiscal year ended December 29, 2001. For each fiscal year since that year, the Company has had a net loss. ( d) Sales of the Company for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2001 were $37,194,240.00. Sales have declined since that year, dropping to $24,814,941.00 for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2004. Sales for the last fiscal year of the Company just ended were $25,143,775.00. (e) The market for the commons stock of the Company is not favorable. During 2005, the stock of the Company was bid at a high bid of $1.30 per share and steadily declined through the year to close the year at a high bid of $0.60 per share. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS - ---------------------------------- No report required. Page 6 BURKE MILLS, INC. PART I 