Item 1A. Risk Factors - Continuedbona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from these position limits. The position limits rule was challenged in court by two industry associations and was vacated and remanded by a federal district court. The CFTC appealed the district court’s ruling and that appeal is pending. The financial reform legislation may also require our swap-dealer counterparties to comply with margin requirements and/or capital requirements relating to our uncleared swaps with those counterparties, but the timing of any adoption of any such regulations, and their scope, are uncertain. These and other CFTC rules implementing Dodd-Frank could impose burdens on market participants to such an extent that liquidity in the bilateral OTC derivative market decreases substantially. The legislation and new regulations may also require counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The new legislation and any new regulations, including determinations with respect to the applicability of margin and capital requirements for uncleared trades, could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures and to generate sufficient cash flow to pay quarterly distributions at the current levels or at all. Any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone