Item 1A. Risk Factors.Limited partner units are inherently different from capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in similar businesses. The following risk factors should be considered together with all of the other information included in this report. If any of the following risks were to materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline and an investor could lose all or part of its investment in us. Risks Related to our BusinessWe may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution or any distribution to holders of our common and subordinated units. To pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.40 per unit per quarter, or $1.60 per unit on an annualized basis, we will require available cash of approximately $20.0 million per quarter, or $79.9 million per year. We may not have 19Table of Contentssufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:•the volume of natural gas we gather and compress; •the level of production of natural gas from wells connected to our gathering systems, which is dependent in part on the demand for, and the market prices of, natural gas and NGLs;•damage to pipelines, facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by earthquakes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters, accidents and acts of terrorism;•leaks or accidental releases of hazardous materials into the environment, whether as a result of human error or otherwise;•changes in the fees we charge for our services;•the level of competition from other midstream energy companies in our geographic markets;•changes in the level of our operating, maintenance and general and administrative costs;•regulatory action affecting the supply of, or demand for, natural gas, the fees we can charge, how we contract for services, our existing contracts, our operating costs or our operating flexibility; and•prevailing economic and market conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:•the level and timing of capital expenditures we make;•the level of our operating and general and administrative expenses, including reimbursements to our general partner for services provided to us;•the cost of acquisitions, if any;•our debt service requirements and other liabilities;•fluctuations in our working capital needs;•our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;•restrictions contained in our debt agreements;•the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner; and•other business risks affecting our cash levels. We depend on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of, or material nonpayment or nonperformance by, or the curtailment of production by, any one or more of these customers could materially adversely affect our revenues, cash flow and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. A significant percentage of our revenue is attributable to a relatively small number of customers. If our customers curtail or reduce production in our areas of operation it could reduce throughput on our system and, therefore, materially adversely affect our revenues, cash flow and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Some of our customers may have material financial and liquidity issues or may, as a result of operational incidents or other events, be disproportionately affected as compared to larger, better-capitalized companies. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by any of our key customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We expect our exposure to concentrated risk of non-payment or non-performance to continue as long as we remain substantially dependent on a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. In addition, if any one or more of our gas gathering agreements that account for 25% or more of our revenues are terminated, and such termination is reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect (as defined in our amended and restated revolving credit facility), and a replacement agreement is not obtained within 30 days, this would constitute an event of default under our amended and restated revolving credit facility and our lenders would be able to accelerate payment of the debt outstanding thereunder. 20Table of ContentsWe gather natural gas from the Piceance Basin and the Barnett Shale. Due to our lack of industry and geographic diversification, adverse developments in our existing areas of operation could materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and reduce our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our operations are focused on natural gas gathering and compression services. Our assets are located exclusively in the Piceance Basin in western Colorado and the Barnett Shale region in north-central Texas and we intend to focus our future capital expenditures largely on developing our business in these areas. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows depend upon the demand for our services in these regions. Due to our lack of industrial and geographic diversity, adverse developments in our current segment of the midstream industry or our existing areas of operation could have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than if our operations were more diversified. For example, the natural gas we gather in the Barnett Shale is dry gas. Due to recent declines in natural gas prices, several of our customers have announced their intent to reduce capital expenditures for dry gas drilling activities. Our operations in the Barnett Shale region could expose us to disproportionate operational and regulatory risk in that area. The location of the Barnett Shale in the Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas metropolitan area poses unique challenges associated with drilling for and gathering natural gas in urban and suburban communities. The DFW Midstream system is within the city limits of various municipalities in that region, including Arlington, Texas. State and local regulations regarding the operation of drilling rigs limit the number of potential new drilling sites that can be used for infill drilling programs, which has led producers to pursue a high-density pad site drilling strategy. Furthermore, the process of obtaining permits for constructing additional gathering lines to deliver our customers' natural gas to market may be more time consuming and costly than in more rural areas. In addition, we may experience a higher rate of litigation or increased insurance and other costs related to our operations or facilities in such highly populated areas. Significant prolonged changes in natural gas prices could affect supply and demand, reducing throughput on our systems and materially adversely affecting our revenues and cash available to make cash distributions to our unitholders over the long-term. Lower natural gas prices over the long-term could result in a decline in the production of natural gas resulting in reduced throughput on our systems. Recently, the price of natural gas has been at historically low levels. The lower price of natural gas is due in part to increased production, especially from unconventional sources, such as natural gas shale plays, high levels of natural gas in storage and the effects of the economic downturn starting in 2008. Furthermore, the amount of natural gas in storage in the continental United States has increased due to the decisions of many producers to store natural gas in the expectation of higher prices in the future as well as decreased demand as a result of unseasonably warm winters. In response to lower natural gas prices, the number of natural gas drilling rigs has declined as a number of producers have curtailed their exploration and production activities. We believe that over the short term, until the supply overhang has been reduced and the economy sees more robust growth, natural gas pricing is likely to be constrained. The current level of low natural gas prices has had a negative impact on exploration, development and production activity in our areas of operation. If natural gas prices remain depressed or decrease further, it could cause sustained reductions in exploration or production activity in our areas of operation and result in a further reduction in throughput on our systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. Also, higher natural gas prices over the long-term could result in a decline in the demand for natural gas and, therefore, in the throughput on our systems. As a result, significant prolonged changes in natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells in our areas of operation, our success depends in part on our customers replacing declining production and also on our ability to maintain levels of throughput on our systems. Any decrease in the volumes of natural gas that we gather could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. The natural gas volumes that support our business depend on the level of production from natural gas wells connected to our systems, the production from which may be less than expected and will naturally decline over time. As a result, our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels on our systems, we must obtain new sources of natural gas. The primary factors affecting our 21Table of Contentsability to obtain non-dedicated sources of natural gas include (i) the level of successful drilling activity in our areas of operation and (ii) our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to our systems or the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, we have no control over producers or their drilling and production decisions, which are affected by, among other things:•the availability and cost of capital;•prevailing and projected commodity prices, including the prices of oil, natural gas and NGLs;•demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs;•levels of reserves;•geological considerations;•environmental or other governmental regulations, including the availability of drilling permits and the regulation of hydraulic fracturing; and•the availability of drilling rigs and other costs of production and equipment. Fluctuations in energy prices can also greatly affect the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling and production activity generally decreases as natural gas prices decrease. In general terms, the prices of natural gas, oil and other hydrocarbon products fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include:•worldwide economic conditions; •weather conditions and seasonal trends; •the levels of domestic production and consumer demand; •the availability of imported liquefied natural gas ("LNG"); •the ability to export LNG; •the availability of transportation systems with adequate capacity; •the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials and premiums; •the price and availability of alternative fuels; •the effect of energy conservation measures; •the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and •the anticipated future prices of natural gas, LNG and other commodities. Because of these factors, even if new natural gas reserves are known to exist in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If reductions in drilling activity result in our inability to maintain the current levels of throughput on our systems, those reductions could reduce our revenue and cash flow and materially adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.Recent declines in natural gas prices have had a negative impact on exploration, development and production activity and, if sustained, could lead to further decreases in such activity. Sustained reductions in exploration or production activity in our areas of operation could lead to further reductions in the utilization of our systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, it may be more difficult to maintain or increase the current volumes on our gathering systems, as several of the formations in the unconventional resource plays in which we operate generally have higher initial production rates and steeper production decline curves than wells in more conventional basins. Should we determine that the economics of our gathering assets do not justify the capital expenditures needed to grow or maintain volumes associated therewith, revenues associated with these assets will decline over time. In addition to capital expenditures to support growth, the steeper production decline curves associated with unconventional resource plays may require us to incur higher maintenance capital expenditures over time, which will reduce our cash available for distribution from operating surplus. 22Table of ContentsMany of our operating costs are fixed and do not vary with our throughput. These costs may not decline ratably or at all should we experience a reduction in throughput, which would result in a decline in our revenue and cash flow and materially adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. If our customers do not increase the volumes of natural gas they provide to our gathering systems, our growth strategy and ability to increase cash distributions to our unitholders may be materially adversely affected. If we are unsuccessful in attracting new customers, our ability to increase the throughput on our gathering systems will be dependent on receiving increased volumes from our existing customers. Other than the scheduled increases in the minimum volume commitments provided for in our gas gathering agreements, our customers are not obligated to provide additional volumes to our systems, and they may determine in the future that drilling activities in areas outside of our current areas of operation are strategically more attractive to them. Reductions by our customers in our areas of mutual interest could result in reductions in throughput on our systems and materially adversely impact our ability to grow our operations and increase cash distributions to our unitholders. Our gas gathering agreements contain provisions that can reduce the cash flow stability that the agreements were designed to achieve. Our gas gathering agreements were designed to generate stable cash flows for us over the life of the minimum volume commitment contract term while also minimizing direct commodity price risk. Under these minimum volume commitments, our customers agree to ship a minimum volume of natural gas on our gathering systems or, in some cases, to pay a minimum monetary amount, over certain periods during the term of the minimum volume commitment. In addition, the majority of our gas gathering agreements also include an aggregate minimum volume commitment, which is a total amount of natural gas that the customer must transport on our gathering system (or an equivalent monetary amount) over the minimum volume commitment term. If a customer's actual throughput volumes are less than its minimum volume commitment for the applicable period, it must make a shortfall payment to us at the end of that contract month or year, as applicable. The amount of the shortfall payment is based on the difference between the actual throughput volume shipped for the applicable period and the minimum volume commitment for the applicable period, multiplied by the applicable gathering fee. To the extent that a customer's actual throughput volumes are above or below its minimum volume commitment for the applicable period, many of our gas gathering agreements contain provisions that allow the customer to use the excess volumes or the shortfall payment to credit against future excess volumes or future shortfall payments in subsequent periods. These provisions include the following:•To the extent that a customer's throughput volumes are less than its minimum volume commitment for the applicable period and the customer makes a shortfall payment, it may be entitled to an offset in one or more subsequent periods to the extent that its throughput volumes in subsequent periods exceed its minimum volume commitment for those periods. In such a situation, we would not receive gathering fees on throughput in excess of a customer's monthly or annual minimum volume commitment (depending on the terms of the specific gas gathering agreement) to the extent that the customer had made a shortfall payment with respect to one or more preceding months or years (as applicable). As of December 31, 2012, we recorded an aggregate of $11.8 million of deferred revenue with respect to shortfall payments that could reduce gathering fees received in the next one month to nine years to the extent that a customer's throughput volumes exceed its minimum volume commitment. •To the extent that a customer's throughput volumes exceed its minimum volume commitment in the applicable period, it may be entitled to apply the excess throughput against its aggregate minimum volume commitment, thereby reducing the period for which its annual minimum volume commitment applies. For example, one of our DFW Midstream customers has a contracted minimum volume commitment term from October 2010 through September 2017. However, this customer regularly shipped volumes in excess of its minimum volume commitments and satisfied the requirements of its aggregate minimum volume commitment in the fourth quarter of 2012, thereby reducing the period for which its minimum volume commitment applies from eight years to less than three years. As a result of this mechanism, the weighted-average remaining period for which our minimum volume commitments apply is less than the weighted-average of the original stated terms of our minimum volume commitments.•To the extent that certain of our customers' throughput volumes exceed its MVC for the applicable period, there is a crediting mechanism that allows the customer to build a bank of credits that it can utilize in the future to reduce shortfall payments owed in subsequent periods, subject to expiration in the event that there is no shortfall in subsequent periods. The period over which this credit bank can be applied to future shortfall payments varies, depending on the particular gas gathering agreement. In such a situation, we 23Table of Contentswould receive lower gathering fees in a particular contract year than we would otherwise be entitled to receive under the customer's minimum volume commitment. Under certain circumstances, it is possible that the combined effect of the minimum volume commitment provisions could result in our receiving no revenues or cash flows from one or more customers in a given period. In the most extreme circumstances: •we could incur operating expenses with no corresponding revenues from one or more significant customers for a period of up to 35 months; or•all or a substantial portion of our customers could cease shipping throughput volumes at a time when their respective aggregate minimum volume commitments have been satisfied with previous throughput volume shipments. If either of these circumstances were to occur, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We do not intend to obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves connected to our gathering and transportation systems on a regular or ongoing basis; therefore, in the future, volumes of natural gas on our systems could be less than we anticipate. We have not obtained and do not intend to obtain independent evaluations of the natural gas reserves connected to our systems on a regular or ongoing basis. Moreover, even if we did obtain independent evaluations of the natural gas reserves connected to our systems, such evaluations may prove to be incorrect. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future production levels and operating and development costs. Accordingly, we may not have accurate estimates of total reserves dedicated to some or all of our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our gathering and transportation systems are less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. We compete with other midstream companies in our areas of operation. Some of our competitors are large companies that have greater financial, managerial and other resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors have assets in closer proximity to gas supplies and have available idle capacity in existing assets that would not require new capital investments for use. Our competitors may expand or construct gathering systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. Because our customers do not have leases that cover the entirety of our areas of mutual interest, non-customer producers that lease acreage within any of our areas of mutual interest and produce natural gas may choose to use one of our competitors to gather that natural gas. In addition, our customers may develop their own gathering systems outside of our areas of mutual interest. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts at favorable rates or on a long-term basis. We gather the natural gas on our systems under contracts with terms of various durations. As these contracts expire, we may have to negotiate extensions or renewals with existing suppliers and customers or enter into new contracts with other suppliers and customers. We may be unable to obtain new contracts on favorable commercial terms, if at all. We also may be unable to maintain the economic structure of a particular contract with an existing customer or the overall mix of our contract portfolio. Moreover, we may be unable to obtain areas of mutual interest from new customers in the future, and we may be unable to renew existing areas of mutual interest with current customers as and when they expire. The extension or replacement of existing contracts depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including:•the level of existing and new competition to provide gathering services to our markets;24Table of Contents•the macroeconomic factors affecting natural gas gathering economics for our current and potential customers;•the balance of supply and demand, on a short-term, seasonal and long-term basis, in our markets;•the extent to which the customers in our markets are willing to contract on a long-term basis; and•the effects of federal, state or local regulations on the contracting practices of our customers. To the extent we are unable to renew our existing contracts on terms that are favorable to us or successfully manage our overall contract mix over time, our revenues and cash flows could decline and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be materially adversely affected. We are exposed to the creditworthiness and performance of our customers, suppliers and contract counterparties, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by one or more of these parties could materially adversely affect our financial and operating results. Although we attempt to assess the creditworthiness of our customers, suppliers and contract counterparties, there can be no assurance that our assessments will be accurate or that there will not be a rapid or unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness, which may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, there can be no assurance that our contract counterparties will perform or adhere to existing or future contractual arrangements. The policies and procedures we use to manage our exposure to credit risk, such as credit analysis, credit monitoring and, in some cases, requiring credit support, cannot fully eliminate counterparty credit risks. To the extent our policies and procedures prove to be inadequate, our financial and operational results may be negatively impacted. Some of our counterparties may be highly leveraged or have limited financial resources and will be subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with such parties. In addition, volatility in commodity prices might have an impact on many of our counterparties, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us and may also increase the magnitude of these obligations. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by any of our counterparties could require us to pursue substitute counterparties for the affected operations, reduce our operations or seek out alternative service providers. There can be no assurance that any such efforts would be successful or would provide similar financial and operational results. If third-party pipelines or other midstream facilities interconnected to our gathering systems become partially or fully unavailable, our revenue and cash flow and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be materially adversely affected. Our natural gas gathering pipelines connect to other pipelines and midstream facilities, such as processing plants, owned and operated by unaffiliated third parties. The continuing operation of such third-party pipelines and other midstream facilities is not within our control. These pipelines and other midstream facilities may become unavailable because of testing, turnarounds, line repair, reduced operating pressure, lack of operating capacity, regulatory requirements, curtailments of receipt or deliveries due to insufficient capacity or because of damage from other operational hazards. In addition, we do not have interconnect agreements with all of these pipelines and other facilities and the agreements we do have may be terminated in certain circumstances and on short notice. If any of these pipelines or other midstream facilities become unavailable for any reason, or, if these third parties are otherwise unwilling to receive or transport the natural gas that we gather, our revenue, cash flow and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be materially adversely affected. We have a limited ownership history with respect to all of our assets. There could be unknown events or conditions or increased maintenance or repair expenses and downtime associated with our pipelines that could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We purchased the substantial majority of our assets in September 2009 and in October 2011. As a result, our executive management team has a limited history of operating our assets. There may be historical occurrences or latent issues regarding our pipeline systems that our executive management team may be unaware of and that may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The steeper production decline curves associated with unconventional resource plays may require us to incur higher maintenance capital expenditures over time to connect additional wells and maintain throughput volume. Any significant increase in maintenance and 25Table of Contentsrepair expenditures or loss of revenue due to the condition of our pipeline systems could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. A shortage of skilled labor in the midstream natural gas industry could reduce employee productivity and increase costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The gathering of natural gas requires skilled laborers in multiple disciplines such as equipment operators, mechanics and engineers, among others. We have from time to time encountered shortages for these types of skilled labor. If we experience shortages of skilled labor in the future, our labor and overall productivity or costs could be materially adversely affected. If our labor prices increase or if we experience materially increased health and benefit costs with respect to our general partner's employees, our business and results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be materially adversely affected. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not adequately insured or if we fail to recover all anticipated insurance proceeds for significant accidents or events for which we are insured, our operations and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in the gathering, compressing and dehydrating of natural gas, including:•damage to pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism;•inadvertent damage from construction, vehicles, farm and utility equipment;•leaks of natural gas and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities;•ruptures, fires and explosions; and•other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. The location of certain of our systems in or near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the damages resulting from these risks. These risks may also result in curtailment or suspension of our operations. A natural disaster or any event such as those described above affecting the areas in which we and our customers operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Accidents or other operating risks could further result in loss of service available to our customers. Such circumstances, including those arising from maintenance and repair activities, could result in service interruptions on segments of our systems. Potential customer impacts arising from service interruptions on segments of our systems could include limitations on our ability to satisfy customer requirements, obligations to temporarily waive minimum volume commitments to customers during times of constrained capacity, and solicitation of existing customers by others for potential new projects that would compete directly with existing services. Such circumstances could materially adversely impact our ability to meet contractual obligations and retain customers, with a resulting negative impact on our business and results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Although we have a range of insurance programs providing varying levels of protection for public liability, damage to property, loss of income and certain environmental hazards, we may not be insured against all causes of loss, claims or damage that may occur. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured, it could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may substantially increase. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Additionally, with regard to the assets we have acquired, we have limited indemnification rights to recover for potential environmental liabilities. 26Table of ContentsWe intend to grow our business in part by seeking strategic acquisition opportunities. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from Summit Investments or third parties, our future growth will be affected, and the acquisitions we do make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash generated from operations on a per-unit basis. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that increase our cash generated from operations on a per-unit basis. The acquisition component of our strategy is based, in large part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of midstream energy assets by industry participants. A material decrease in such divestitures would limit our opportunities for future acquisitions and could materially adversely affect our ability to grow our operations and increase our cash distributions to our unitholders. If we are unable to make accretive acquisitions from Summit Investments or third parties, whether because we are (i) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts; (ii) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; (iii) outbid by competitors; or (iv) we are unable to obtain necessary governmental or third-party consents or for any other reason, then our future growth and ability to increase cash distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations on a per-unit basis. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things:•mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenue and costs, including synergies and potential growth;•an inability to secure adequate customer commitments to use the acquired systems or facilities;•the risk that natural gas or crude oil reserves expected to support the acquired assets may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed as anticipated;•an inability to integrate successfully the assets or businesses we acquire; •coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities;•the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate;•mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt;•the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns;•unforeseen difficulties operating in new geographic areas and business lines; and•customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and our unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. Our construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through organic growth projects. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and the construction of new midstream assets involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic uncertainties that are beyond our control. Such expansion projects may also require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, and financing may not be available on economically acceptable terms or at all. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all. Moreover, our revenue may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, as we develop our medium pressure system to serve the Mancos and Niobrara shale formations, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, yet we will not receive any material increases in revenue until the project is completed and placed into service. Moreover, we could construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize or only materializes over a period materially longer than expected. To the extent we rely on estimates of future production in our decision to construct additions to our systems, such estimates may prove to be inaccurate as a result of the numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not attract enough throughput to 27Table of Contentsachieve our expected investment return, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the construction of additions to our existing gathering assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way or federal and state environmental or other authorizations. The approval process for gathering activities has become increasingly challenging, due in part to state and local concerns related to unregulated exploration and production and gathering activities in new production areas. Such authorization may not be granted or, if granted, such authorization may include burdensome or expensive conditions. As a result, we may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way or other authorizations and may, therefore, be unable to connect new natural gas volumes to our systems or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or authorizations or to renew existing rights-of-way or authorizations. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way or authorizations increases materially, our cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We require access to significant amounts of additional capital to implement our growth strategy, as well as to meet potential future capital requirements under certain of our gas gathering agreements. Tightened capital markets could impair our ability to grow or cause us to be unable to meet future capital requirements. To expand our asset base, whether through acquisitions or organic growth, we will need to make expansion capital expenditures. We also frequently consider and enter into discussions with third parties regarding potential acquisitions. In addition, the terms of certain of our gas gathering agreements also require us to spend significant amounts of capital, including over a short period of time, to construct and develop additional midstream assets to support our customers' development projects. For example, in connection with our acquisition of the Grand River system, we agreed to invest capital, subject to a maximum of $200.0 million in any annual period, to construct the necessary facilities to support our primary customer’s drilling program in the Mancos and Niobrara shale formations. Depending on our customers' future development plans, it is possible that the capital we would be required to spend to construct and develop such assets could exceed our ability to finance those expenditures using our cash reserves or available capacity under our amended and restated credit facility. We will be required to use cash from operations, incur borrowings, and/or sell additional common units or other securities to fund our future expansion capital expenditures. Using cash from operations to fund expansion capital expenditures will directly reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our ability to obtain financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering as well as covenants in our debt agreements, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. If we are unable to raise expansion capital, we may lose the opportunity to make acquisitions or to gather natural gas production from new upstream projects developed by our customers with whom we have agreed to construct and develop midstream assets in the future. Even if we are successful in obtaining funds for expansion capital expenditures through equity or debt financings, the terms thereof could limit our ability to pay distributions to our common unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional units representing limited partner interests may result in significant common unitholder dilution and increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. We do not have any commitment from our Sponsors or their affiliates to provide any direct or indirect financial assistance to us. Because our common units are yield-oriented securities, increases in interest rates could materially adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions. Interest rates are generally at or near historic lows and may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on our future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an material adverse impact on our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. 28Table of ContentsDebt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $199.2 million of total indebtedness and approximately $350.8 million available for future borrowings under our $550.0 million revolving credit facility. Our future level of debt could have significant consequences, including the following:•our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;•our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and cash distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt;•we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and•our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. Restrictions in our amended and restated revolving credit facility could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make cash distributions to unitholders and value of our common units. Our amended and restated revolving credit facility limits our ability to, among other things:•incur or guarantee additional debt;•make cash distributions on or redeem or repurchase units;•make certain investments and acquisitions;•make capital expenditures;•incur certain liens or permit them to exist;•enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;•merge or consolidate with another company or otherwise engage in a change of control; and•transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets. Our amended and restated revolving credit facility also contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot guarantee that we will meet those ratios and tests. In addition, our credit facility contains events of default customary for credit facilities of this size and nature. The provisions of our amended and restated revolving credit facility may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities as well as affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our amended and restated revolving credit facility could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. A portion of our revenues are exposed to changes in oil and natural gas prices, and our exposure may increase in the future. We generate a substantial majority of our revenues pursuant to long-term, fee-based gas gathering agreements under which we are paid based on the volumes of natural gas that we gather rather than the value of the underlying natural gas. Consequently, our existing operations and cash flows have limited direct exposure to commodity price risk. Although we intend to enter into similar fee-based contracts with new customers in the future, our efforts to obtain such contractual terms may not be successful. For example, in the future we may enter into percent-of-29Table of Contentsproceeds contracts with our customers, which would increase our exposure to commodity price risk, as the revenues generated from those contracts directly correlate with the fluctuating price of natural gas and natural gas liquids. Substantially all of our remaining revenue is derived from (i) the sale of physical natural gas that we retain from our DFW Midstream customers to offset our power expense associated with our electric-drive compression and (ii) the sale of condensate volumes that we collect on the Grand River system. The revenues we earn from the sale of retained natural gas are tied to the price of natural gas. In addition, changes in the price of oil could directly affect the revenues we receive from the sale of condensate. Furthermore, we may acquire or develop additional midstream assets in the future, including assets related to commodities other than natural gas, that have a greater exposure to fluctuations in commodity price risk than our current operations. Future exposure to the volatility of oil and natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A change in laws and regulations applicable to our assets or services, or the interpretation or implementation of existing laws and regulations may cause our revenue to decline or our operating and maintenance expenses to increase. Various aspects of our operations are subject to extensive and frequently changing regulation as the activities of the natural gas industry often are reviewed by legislators and regulators. More stringent legislation or regulation or taxation of natural gas drilling activity could directly curtail such activity or increase the cost of drilling, resulting in reduced levels of drilling activity and therefore reduced demand for our services. Numerous federal, state and local departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations and interpretations binding upon participants in the natural gas industry. The agencies establish and from time to time change priorities, which may result in additional burdens on us, such as additional reporting requirements and more frequent audits of operations, which we have recently experienced relative to the DFW Midstream system. Our operations and the markets in which we participate are affected by these laws, regulations and interpretations and may be affected by changes to them or their implementation, which may cause us to realize materially lower revenues or incur materially increased operating costs or both. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in natural gas production by our customers, which could materially adversely impact our revenues. A substantial majority of our customers' natural gas production is developed from unconventional sources, such as shales, that require hydraulic fracturing as part of the completion process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate gas production. We do not engage in any hydraulic fracturing activities although many of our customers do. Legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the definition of underground injection and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process, were proposed in recent sessions of the U.S. Congress. Congress will likely continue to consider legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Any such legislation could make it easier for third parties opposed to hydraulic fracturing to initiate legal proceedings against our customers. Scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities continues in other ways, with both regulatory and study initiatives. For example, in May 2012, the Department of the Interior's Bureau of Land Management issued a proposed rule to regulate hydraulic fracturing on public and Indian land. The rule would require companies to publicly disclose to the Bureau of Land Management the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing operations after fracturing operations have been completed and includes provisions addressing well-bore integrity and flowback water management plans. In addition, the EPA has commenced a multi-year study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing, the final results of which are expected in 2014. Similarly, in October 2011, the EPA announced its intention to propose regulations by 2014 under the federal Clean Water Act to develop standards for wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other natural gas production activities. In addition to the EPA, the White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. The U.S. Department of Energy is conducting an investigation into practices the agency could recommend to better protect the environment from drilling using hydraulic fracturing completion methods. Certain members of Congress have called upon:30Table of Contents•the U.S. Government Accountability Office to investigate how hydraulic fracturing might adversely affect water resources;•the Securities and Exchange Commission to investigate the natural gas industry and any possible misleading of investors or the public regarding the economic feasibility of pursuing natural gas deposits in shales by means of hydraulic fracturing; and•the U.S. Energy Information Administration to provide a better understanding of that agency's estimates regarding natural-gas reserves, including reserves from shale formations, as well as uncertainties associated with those estimates. Depending on the outcome of these studies and other initiatives, federal and state legislatures and agencies may seek to further regulate hydraulic fracturing activities.Several states, including Texas and Colorado in which our customers do business, have also proposed or adopted legislative or regulatory restrictions on hydraulic fracturing. The chemical ingredient information for hydraulic fracturing fluid is generally available to the public through online databases, and this availability may bring more public scrutiny to hydraulic fracturing operations. We cannot predict whether any other legislation will be enacted and if so, what its provisions would be. If additional levels of regulation and permits were required through the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal or state level, that could lead to delays, increased operating costs and prohibitions for producers who drill near our pipelines which could reduce the volumes of natural gas available to move through our gathering systems, and thus materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations and ability to make cash distributions. In April 2012, the EPA approved final rules that would subject all oil and natural gas operations (production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution) to regulation under the NSPS and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants programs. These rules also include NSPS standards for completions of hydraulically fractured gas wells. These standards include the reduced emission completion techniques developed in the EPA's Natural Gas STAR program along with pit flaring of gas not sent to the gathering line. The standards would be applicable to newly drilled and fractured wells as well as existing wells that are refractured. Further, the proposed regulations under the National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants program include maximum achievable control technology standards for those glycol dehydrators and storage vessels at major sources of hazardous air pollutants not currently subject to maximum achievable control technology standards. At this point, the effect these proposed rules could have on our business has not been determined. While these rules have been finalized, many of the rules' provisions will be phased in over time, with the more stringent requirements like reduced emission completion not becoming effective until 2015.Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and natural gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to increased operating costs in the production of oil and natural gas, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing, either of which could have an adverse effect on our customers. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and natural gas wells, increased compliance costs and time, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We are subject to federal anti-market manipulation laws and regulations, potentially other federal regulatory requirements, and state and local regulation, and could be materially affected by changes in such laws and regulations, or in the way they are interpreted and enforced. We believe that our pipeline facilities qualify as gathering facilities that are exempt from the jurisdiction of FERC, the NGA and the NGPA. We are, however, subject to the anti-market manipulation provisions in the NGA, as amended by the Energy Policy Act of 2005, and to FERC's regulations thereunder, which authorize FERC to impose fines of up to $1,000,000 per day per violation of the NGA or its implementing regulations. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission holds statutory authority under the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 to prevent market manipulation in oil markets, and has adopted broad rules and regulations prohibiting fraud and market manipulation. The Federal Trade Commission is also authorized to seek fines of up to $1,000,000 per violation. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is directed under the Commodity Exchange Act, to prevent price manipulations for the commodity and futures markets, including the energy futures markets. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, also known as the Dodd-Frank Act, and other authority, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has adopted anti-market manipulation regulations that prohibit fraud and price manipulation in the commodity and futures markets. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission also has statutory authority to seek civil penalties of up to the greater of $1,000,000 per day per violation or triple the 31Table of Contentsmonetary gain to the violator for each violation of the anti-market manipulation sections of the Commodity Exchange Act. The distinction between federally unregulated gathering facilities and FERC-regulated transmission pipelines has been the subject of extensive litigation and may be determined by FERC on a case-by-case basis, although FERC has made no determinations as to the status of our facilities. Consequently, the classification and regulation of some of our pipelines could change based on future determinations by FERC or the courts. If our gas gathering operations become subject to FERC jurisdiction, the result may materially adversely affect the rates we are able to charge and the services we currently provide, and may include the potential for a termination of our gathering agreements with our customers. We are subject to state and local regulation regarding the construction and operation of our gathering systems, as well as state ratable take statutes and regulations. Regulation of the construction and operation of our facilities may affect our ability to expand our facilities or build new facilities and such regulation may cause us to incur additional operating costs or limit the quantities of gas we may gather. Ratable take statutes and regulations generally require gatherers to take natural gas production that may be tendered for gathering without undue discrimination. These requirements restrict our right to decide whose production we gather. Many states have adopted complaint-based regulation of gathering activities, which allows producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve access issues, rate grievances, and other matters. Other state and municipal regulations do not directly apply to our business, but may nonetheless affect the availability of natural gas for gathering, including state regulation of production rates, maximum daily production allowable from gas wells, and other activities related to drilling and operating wells. While our facilities currently are subject to limited state and local regulation, there is a risk that state or local laws will be changed or reinterpreted, which may materially affect our operations, operating costs, and revenues. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our natural gas gathering, compression and dehydrating operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Examples of these laws include:•the federal Clean Air Act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions;•the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, also known as CERCLA or the Superfund law, and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may be or have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which our wastes are or have been transported for disposal;•the federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, and analogous state laws that regulate discharges from our facilities into state and federal waters, including wetlands;•the federal Oil Pollution Act and analogous state laws that establish strict liability for releases of oil into waters of the United States;•the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the storage, treatment and disposal of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities;•the Endangered Species Act; and•the Toxic Substances Control Act, and analogous state laws that impose requirements on the use, storage and disposal of various chemicals and chemical substances at our facilities. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital or operating expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our pipelines and facilities, and the imposition of substantial liabilities and remedial obligations for pollution resulting from our operations or at locations currently or previously owned or operated by us. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly corrective actions or costly pollution control measures. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and requisite permits may result in the assessment of significant administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. In addition, we may experience a delay in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits or regulatory authorizations, which may cause us to lose potential and current customers, interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue. 32Table of ContentsThere is a risk that we may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities in connection with our operations due to historical industry operations and waste disposal practices, our handling of hydrocarbons and other wastes and potential emissions and discharges related to our operations. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred, without regard to fault, under certain of these environmental laws and regulations in connection with discharges or releases of hydrocarbon wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, many of which have been used for midstream activities for a number of years, oftentimes by third parties not under our control. Private parties, including the owners of the properties through which our gathering systems pass and facilities where our wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. For example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. In addition, changes in environmental laws occur frequently, and any such changes that result in additional permitting obligations or more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. We may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance. We may incur greater than anticipated costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline safety requirements. The U.S. Department of Transportation, through its Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, has adopted and enforces safety standards and procedures applicable to our pipelines. In addition, many states, including the states in which we operate, have adopted regulations similar to existing U.S. Department of Transportation regulations for intrastate pipelines. Among the regulations applicable to us, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration requires pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for certain pipelines located in high consequence areas, which include high population areas such as the Dallas-Fort Worth greater metropolitan area where our DFW Midstream system is located. While the majority of our pipelines meet the U.S. Department of Transportation definition of gathering lines and are thus exempt from the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration's integrity management requirements, we also operate three pipelines in the Dallas-Fort Worth area that are subject to the integrity management requirements. The regulations require operators, including us, to:•perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;•identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area;•maintain processes for data collection, integration and analysis;•repair and remediate pipelines as necessary; •adopt and maintain procedures, standards and training programs for control room operations; and•implement preventive and mitigating actions. Our pipelines have become subject to regulation which has increased penalties assessed against violators and may become subject to more stringent safety regulation. Recently enacted pipeline safety legislation, the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011, reauthorizes funding for federal pipeline safety programs through 2015, increases penalties for safety violations, establishes additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines, and requires studies of certain safety issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements for existing pipelines. The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration has also published an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking to solicit comments on the need for changes to its safety regulations, including whether to revise the integrity management requirements and extend the integrity management requirements to certain gathering lines. A new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could also significantly increase our costs or materially affect our operations. For example, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration issued an Advisory Bulletin which, among other things, advises pipeline operators that if they are relying on design, construction, inspection, testing or other data to determine the pressures at which their pipelines should operate, the records of that data must be traceable, verifiable and complete. Locating such records and, in the absence of any such records, verifying maximum pressures through physical testing or modifying or replacing facilities to meet the demands of such pressures, could significantly increase our costs. Additionally, failure to locate such records or verify maximum pressures could result in reductions of allowable operating pressures, which would reduce available capacity of our pipelines. While we believe that we are in compliance with existing safety laws and regulations, increased penalties for safety violations 33Table of Contentsand potential regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our operations, operating and maintenance expenses, and revenues. Extending the integrity management requirements to our gathering lines would impose additional obligations on us and could add material costs to our operations. Climate change legislation, regulatory initiatives and litigation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the natural gas services we provide. In recent years, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation to restrict or regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane that may be contributing to global warming. It presently appears unlikely that comprehensive climate legislation will be passed by either house of Congress in the near future, although energy legislation and other initiatives are expected to be proposed that may be relevant to greenhouse gas emissions issues. In addition, almost half of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun to address greenhouse gas emissions, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. In general, the number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year until the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal is achieved. Depending on the scope of a particular program, we could be required to purchase and surrender allowances for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations (e.g., at compressor stations). Although most of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that our sources, such as our gas-fired compressors, could become subject to state-level greenhouse gas-related regulation. Depending on the particular program, we may be required to control emissions or to purchase and surrender allowances for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations. Independent of Congress, the EPA has begun to adopt federal-level regulations controlling greenhouse gas emissions under its existing Clean Air Act authority. In 2009, the EPA issued required findings under the Clean Air Act concluding that emissions of greenhouse gases present an endangerment to human health and the environment, and issued a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. In May 2010, the EPA issued a final rule, also known as the Tailoring Rule, that makes certain large stationary sources and modification projects subject to permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. In November 2010, the EPA also issued a final rule expanding its existing greenhouse gas emissions reporting rule for petroleum and natural gas facilities. These rules require data collection beginning in 2011 and reporting beginning in September 2012 and require that we report our greenhouse gas emissions for certain of our assets. As a result of this continued regulatory focus, future greenhouse gas regulation of the oil and gas industry remain a possibility. Although it is not possible at this time to accurately estimate how potential future laws or regulations addressing greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, either directly or indirectly, any future federal or state laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs and could materially adversely affect demand for the natural gas we gather or otherwise handle in connection with our services. The potential increase in the costs of our operations resulting from any legislation or regulation to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases could include new or increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay any taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. While we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged by our pipelines or other facilities, such recovery of costs is uncertain. Moreover, incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources could reduce demand for natural gas, resulting in a decrease in demand for our services. We cannot predict with any certainty at this time how these possibilities may affect our operations. The adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for swap transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and increase the working capital requirements to conduct these activities. Congress adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation under the Dodd-Frank Act that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter, or OTC, derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. This legislation requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate certain rules and regulations, including rules and regulations relating to the regulation of certain swaps entities, the clearing of certain swaps, the reporting and recordkeeping of swaps, and expanded enforcement such as establishing position limits. Although the Commodities Futures Trading Commission established position limits on certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts, including natural 34Table of Contentsgas, with exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions, those limits were vacated by federal district court on September 28, 2012, and will not go into effect until the Commodities Futures Trading Commission prevails on appeal of this ruling, or issues and finalizes revised rules. In December 2012, the Commodities Futures Trading Commission published final rules regarding mandatory clearing of four classes of interest rate swaps and two classes of credit swaps and setting compliance dates of March 11, 2013, June 10, 2013, and, for end users of swaps, September 9, 2013. We currently receive a fuel retainage fee from certain of our customers that is paid in-kind to offset the costs we incur to operate our electric-drive compression assets in the Barnett Shale. We currently enter into forward contracts with third parties to buy power and sell natural gas in an attempt to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in the price of natural gas with respect to those volumes. The impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our hedging activities is uncertain at this time. However, the new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. The Dodd-Frank Act may also materially affect our customers and materially and adversely affect the demand for our services.We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and we are, therefore, subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate or if our pipelines are not properly located within the boundaries of such rights-of-way. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. If we were to be unsuccessful in renegotiated rights-of-way, we might have to relocate our facilities. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our ability to operate our business effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key management personnel. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies will depend on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled management personnel with midstream natural gas industry experience and competition for these persons in the midstream natural gas industry is intense. Given our size, we may be at a disadvantage, relative to our larger competitors, in the competition for these personnel. We may not be able to continue to employ our senior executives and key personnel or attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, and our failure to retain or attract our senior executives and key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively operate our business. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results timely and accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units. As a publicly traded partnership, we are subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including the rules thereunder that will require our management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and timely financial reports, prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but our internal accounting controls may not meet all standards applicable to companies with publicly traded securities. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, in addition to our limited accounting personnel and management resources, we can provide no assurance as to our or our independent registered public accounting firm's future conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal controls, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting will subject us to regulatory 35Table of Contentsscrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units. Although we will be required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis, we will not be required to make our first annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 until the fiscal year ending December 31, 2013. In addition, pursuant to the recently enacted Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, also known as the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or the date we are no longer an emerging growth company. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common and subordinated units depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. Risks Inherent in an Investment in UsSummit Investments owns and controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations as well as limited duties to us and our unitholders. Summit Investments and our general partner have conflicts of interest with us and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders. Summit Investments controls our general partner, and has authority to appoint all of the officers and directors of our general partner, some of whom will also be officers, directors or principals of Energy Capital Partners, one of the two entities that own Summit Investments. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is in our best interests, the directors and officers of our general partner also have a duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is in the best interests of its owner, Summit Investments. Conflicts of interest will arise between Summit Investments, its owners and our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of Summit Investments and its owners over our interests and the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others:•Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Summit Investments or its owners to pursue a business strategy that favors us, and the directors and officers of Summit Investments have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the owners of Summit Investments, which may be contrary to our interests. Summit Investments may choose to shift the focus of its investment and growth to areas not served by our assets.•Summit Investments is not limited in its ability to compete with us and may offer business opportunities or sell midstream assets to third parties without first offering us the right to bid for them.•Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Summit Investments and its owners, in resolving conflicts of interest.•Our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner to us and our unitholders with contractual standards governing its duties to us and our unitholders. These contractual standards limit our general partner's liabilities and the rights of our unitholders with respect to actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.•Except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval.•Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership interests and the creation, reduction or increase of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders.•Our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an 36Table of Contentsexpansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units.•Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us.•Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period.•Our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $50.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to our general partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights.•Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf.•Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations.•Our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 80% of the common units.•Our general partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us.•Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us.•Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our other unitholders in certain situations. Our Sponsors are not limited in their ability to compete with us and are not obligated to offer us the opportunity to acquire additional assets or businesses, which could limit our ability to grow and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Energy Capital Partners and GE Energy Financial Services have significantly greater resources than us and have experience making investments in midstream energy businesses. Energy Capital Partners and GE Energy Financial Services may compete with us for investment opportunities and may own interests in entities that compete with us. Energy Capital Partners and GE Energy Financial Services are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. For example, GE Energy Financial Services owns an interest in another midstream publicly traded partnership. In addition, in the future, Energy Capital Partners or GE Energy Financial Services may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream or other assets and may be presented with new business opportunities, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct such assets or to engage in such business opportunities. For example, in October 2012, Summit Investments acquired a natural gas gathering and processing system in the Piceance and Uinta basins in Colorado and Utah from a third party. In February 2013, Summit Investments acquired a midstream energy company that owns, operates and is developing various natural gas gathering and processing assets along with crude oil and water gathering assets in multiple locations outside of our current operating areas. While Summit Investments may offer us the opportunity to buy these or other additional assets, it is not under any contractual obligation to do so and we are unable to predict whether or when such opportunities may arise. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner, its officers and directors or any of its affiliates, including our Sponsors and their respective executive officers, directors and principals. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. 37Table of ContentsThe market price of our common units may fluctuate significantly and, due to limited daily trading volumes, an investor could lose all or part of its investment in us. There were 14,382,577 publicly traded common units at December 31, 2012. In addition, Summit Investments, which also controls our general partner, owned 10,029,850 common and 24,409,850 subordinated units. An investor may not be able to resell its common units at or above its acquisition price. Additionally, a lack of liquidity may result in wide bid-ask spreads, contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of the common units and limit the number of investors who are able to buy the common units.The market price of our common units may decline and be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:•our quarterly distributions; •our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;•the loss of a large customer;•announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions;•changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;•general economic conditions;•the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units or changes in financial estimates by analysts;•future sales of our common units; and•other factors described in these Risk Factors. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common and subordinated units with contractual standards governing its duties. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate fiduciary duties to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner or otherwise, free of any duties to us and our unitholders, other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include:•how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and its affiliates;•whether to exercise its limited call right;•whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner;•how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns;•whether to exercise its registration rights;•whether to elect to reset target distribution levels;•whether to transfer the incentive distribution rights or any units it owns to a third party; and•whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder agrees to become bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Our partnership agreement limits the liabilities of our general partner and the rights of our unitholders with respect to actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that limit the liability of our general partner and the rights of our unitholders with respect to actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement provides that:38Table of Contents•whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the decision was in our best interests, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;•our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith;•our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or their assignees resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and•our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its duties to us or our unitholders if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:(i)approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; (ii)approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates;(iii)on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or(iv)fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner or the conflicts committee must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the final two subclauses above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner's fiduciary duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders and will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we intend to distribute all of our available cash, we may not grow as quickly as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per-unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our amended and restated revolving credit facility on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial 39Table of Contentsborrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. Our partnership agreement generally may not be amended during the subordination period without the approval of our public common unitholders. However, our partnership agreement can be amended with the consent of our general partner and the approval of a majority of the outstanding common units (including common units held by affiliates of our general partner) after the subordination period has ended. As of December 31, 2012, Summit Investments, which also controls our general partner, owned 10,029,850 common units and all of our 24,409,850 outstanding subordinated units.Reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner. Prior to making any distribution on our common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including Summit Investments, for expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Under our partnership agreement, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for certain expenses incurred on our behalf, including administrative costs, such as compensation expense for those persons who provide services necessary to run our business. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of available cash to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels related to our general partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner's board or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our unitholders in certain situations. Our general partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters (and the amount of each such distribution did not exceed adjusted operating surplus for such quarter), to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution per unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the reset minimum quarterly distribution), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. In the event of a reset of target distribution levels, our general partner will be entitled to receive the number of common units equal to that number of common units that would have entitled it to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. Our general partner will also be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain its general partner interest in us that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when we are experiencing declines in our aggregate cash distributions or at a time when our general partner expects that we will experience declines in our aggregate cash distributions in the foreseeable future. In such situations, our general partner may be experiencing, or may expect to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued common units, which are entitled to specified priorities with respect to our distributions and which therefore may be more advantageous for the general partner to own in lieu of the right to receive incentive distribution payments based on target distribution levels that are less certain to be achieved in the then-current business environment. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels related to our general partner's incentive distribution rights. 40Table of ContentsHolders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our general partner will be chosen by Summit Investments. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our general partner without its consent. The unitholders initially will be unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding limited partner units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. As of December 31, 2012, Summit Investments, which also controls our general partner, owned 10,029,850 common units and 24,409,850 subordinated units, or 70.5% of our outstanding limited partner units. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on our common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would materially adversely affect our common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over our subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our general partner because of the unitholder's dissatisfaction with our general partner's performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and conversion of all subordinated units to common units. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by a provision of our partnership agreement providing that any person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding cannot vote on any matter, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of Summit Investments to transfer all or a portion of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers. This effectively permits a change of control without the vote or consent of the unitholders. The incentive distribution rights of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer the incentive distribution rights it owns to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers the incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our business and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of the incentive distribution rights. For example, a transfer of the incentive distribution rights by our general partner could reduce the likelihood of Summit Investments selling or contributing additional midstream assets to us, as Summit Investments would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base. 41Table of ContentsWe may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute existing ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests, including limited partner interests that rank senior to the common units that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:•our existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;•the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;•because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase;•because the amount payable to holders of incentive distribution rights is based on a percentage of the total cash available for distribution, the distributions to holders of incentive distribution rights will increase even if the per-unit distribution on common units remains the same;•the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;•the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and•the market price of the common units may decline. Summit Investments may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. As of December 31, 2012, Summit Investments held an aggregate of 10,029,850 common units and 24,409,850 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period. In addition, we have agreed to provide Summit Investments with certain registration rights. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require an investor to sell its units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of our outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. As a result, an investor may be required to sell its common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on its investment. An investor may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of its units. As of December 31, 2012, Summit Investments owned 10,029,850 common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no acquisitions, dispositions, retirement or additional issuances of common units (other than upon the conversion of the subordinated units), Summit Investments will own 34,439,700 common units, or approximately 70.5% of our then-outstanding common units. An investor's liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. An investor could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if it was a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that:•we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or•an investor's right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute control of our business. 42Table of ContentsUnitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Delaware Law, we may not make a distribution if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable both for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that were known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the partnership agreement. Neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest nor liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. If an investor is not an eligible holder, it may not receive distributions or allocations of income or loss on those common units and those common units will be subject to redemption. We have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common and subordinated units. Eligible holders are U.S. individuals or entities subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us or entities not subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us, so long as all of the entity's owners are U.S. individuals or entities subject to such taxation. If an investor is not an eligible holder, our general partner may elect not to make distributions or allocate income or loss on that investor's units, and it runs the risk of having its units redeemed by us at the lower of purchase price cost and the then-current market price. The redemption price may be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. The New York Stock Exchange does not require a publicly traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. We have listed our common units on the New York Stock Exchange. Because we are a publicly traded partnership, the New York Stock Exchange does not require us to have, and we do not intend to have, a majority of independent directors on our general partner's board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Additionally, any future issuance of additional common units or other securities, including to affiliates, will not be subject to the New York Stock Exchange's shareholder approval rules. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly traded partnership. We have limited history operating as a publicly traded partnership. As a publicly traded partnership, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley of 2002 and related rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange have required changes in the corporate governance practices of publicly traded companies. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a publicly traded partnership, we are required to have at least three independent directors, create an audit committee and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, including the preparation of reports on internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our publicly traded partnership reporting requirements. We also expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for our general partner to obtain director and officer liability insurance and to possibly result in our general partner having to accept reduced policy limits and coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for our general partner to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on its board of directors or as executive officers. Tax RisksOur tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. 43Table of ContentsDespite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, there would be material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. We are unable to predict whether any such changes will ultimately be enacted. However, it is possible that a change in law could affect us and may be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Our unitholders' share of our income will be taxable to them for federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because a unitholder will be treated as a partner to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to it, which may require the payment of federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on its share of our taxable income even if the unitholder receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel or from the positions we take, and the IRS's positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have an adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne 44Table of Contentsindirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such common units at a price greater than your tax basis in those common units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of your common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your common units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts ("IRAs"), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons, should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury regulations. Recently, however, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a short seller to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a short seller to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, he may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the 45Table of Contentsunitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are advised to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common units. We adopted certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year and would result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has recently announced a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief program whereby, if a publicly traded partnership that technically terminated requests publicly traded partnership technical termination relief and such relief is granted by the IRS, among other things, the partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years. As a result of investing in our common units, you may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if the unitholders do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We initially expect to conduct business in Texas and Colorado. Colorado currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is the unitholder's responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.Not applicable.46Table of Contents