Item 1A. Risk Factors - Continuedpermitted under existing Treasury regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests within a 12-month period will result in the deemed termination of our tax partnership for federal income tax purposes.We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. If this occurs, our unitholders will be allocated an increased amount of federal taxable income for the year in which we are considered to be terminated as a percentage of the cash distributed to the unitholders with respect to that period.A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss, or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units.Unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states and jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our units.In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. In 2015, we have been registered to do business or have owned assets in Alabama, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Montana, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, Utah and Wyoming. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may do business or own assets in other states in the future. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns that may be required of such unitholder.Changes to current federal tax laws may affect the tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or unitholders’ ability to take certain tax deductions, possibly on a retroactive basis.Substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws have been proposed that, if adopted, would affect, among other things, the ability to take certain operations-related deductions, including deductions for intangible drilling and deductions for U.S. production activities. Other proposed changes may affect our ability to remain taxable as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or tax publicly traded partnerships with qualifying income from fossil fuels activities as a corporation. Additionally, in May 2015, the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury published proposed regulations that provide industry-specific guidance regarding whether income earned from certain activities will constitute qualifying income. We are unable to predict whether any changes, or other proposals to such laws, ultimately will be enacted or, if enacted, will be applied retroactively, or whether proposed regulations, once issued in final form, will materially change interpretations of the current law. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our units.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone