Item 1A. Risk Factors. In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. We Have Incurred Losses in Recent Years. There Can Be No Assurance That We Will Return to Profitability on a Sustained Basis For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2013 and 2011, we reported net losses of $18.8 million and $6.1 million, respectively, while we reported net income of $2.0 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012. Our net loss for fiscal 2013 was primarily due to the $10.1 million loss recognized on sale of a substantial portion of our problem loans in a bulk transaction on October 4, 2013, the $1.5 million penalty recognized on the prepayment of $20.0 million in FHLB advances and the $6.0 million charge made in connection with the deferred tax asset (“DTA”) allowance. Our Portfolio of Loans Continues to Include Loans with a Higher Risk of Loss Commercial real estate loans, construction and development loans and second mortgages (home equity loans) have a higher risk of default and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans. The aggregate amount of our commercial real estate loans, construction and development loans and second mortgages (home equity loans) amounted to $134.2 million, or 33.2% of our total loan portfolio at September 30, 2013. Commercial real estate and construction and development loans generally are considered to involve a higher degree of risk due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances and loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at the stated maturity date. Repayment of commercial real estate loans generally is dependent on income being generated by the rental property or underlying business in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. Repayment of construction and development loans generally is dependent on the successful completion of the project and the ability of the borrower to repay the loan from the sale of the property or obtaining permanent financing. Our second mortgage loans generally are considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential mortgage loans due to the generally higher loan-to-value ratios and their secondary position in the collateral to the existing first mortgage. 41 Table of Contents Our Provisions to Our Allowance for Loan Losses and Our Net Charge-Offs to Our Allowance for Loan Losses Have Adversely Affected, and May Continue to Adversely Affect, Our Results of Operations Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. While we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance, losses may exceed the value of the collateral securing the loans and the allowance may not fully cover any excess loss. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Our allowance for loan losses is based on these judgments, as well as historical loss experience and an evaluation of the other risks associated with our loan portfolio, including but not limited to, the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. Federal regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions or judgments used to determine the allowance prove to be incorrect, if the value of the collateral securing the loans decreases substantially or if our regulators disagree with our judgments, we may need to increase the allowance in amounts that exceed our expectations. Additions to the allowance adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We recorded an $11.2 million provision for loan losses during the year ended September 30, 2013, compared to provisions of $810,000 and $12.4 million for the years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The $11.2 million provision recorded in 2013 was primarily driven by $10.2 million of charge-offs taken in relation to the bulk sale of loans. The Supervisory Agreement Imposes Restrictions Which May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations And the Market Value of Our Common Stock In October 2010, the Bank, entered into the Supervisory Agreement. See Item 1, “Business – Regulation – The Supervisory Agreements” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Supervisory Agreement imposes a number of operating restrictions and requirements that the Bank revise and/or implement and monitor various identified policies, procedures and reports. Until April 2013, the Supervisory Agreement also prohibited us from originating any new commercial loans and limited the growth in our assets in any quarter to an amount not exceeding net interest credited on our deposits without prior OCC approval. The restrictions in the Supervisory Agreement has had an adverse impact on the average yield earned on our loan portfolio and has contributed to a reduction in the average balance of our loan portfolio, both of which have reduced our interest income. In addition, compliance efforts related to the Supervisory Agreement has increased our non-interest expense. While we plan to request relief from the Supervisory Agreement during fiscal 2014, no assurance can be given whether any relief will be granted. Higher Interest Rates Would Hurt Our Profitability Management is unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including inflation, recession, unemployment, monetary policy, domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets, and investor and consumer demand. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income generated by our interest-earning assets (consisting primarily of single-family residential loans) and the interest expense generated by our interest-bearing liabilities (consisting primarily of deposits). The level of net interest income is primarily a function of the average balance of our interest-earning assets, the average balance of our interest-bearing liabilities, and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by such external factors as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors (the “FOMC”), and market interest rates. 42 Table of Contents A sustained increase in market interest rates would adversely affect our earnings. A significant portion of our loans have fixed interest rates and longer terms than our deposits and borrowings and our net interest income could be adversely affected if the rates we pay on deposits and borrowings increase more rapidly than the rates we earn on loans. In addition, the market value of our fixed-rate assets would decline if interest rates increase. For example, we estimate that as of September 30, 2013, a 300 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in our net portfolio value declining by approximately $35.9 million or 46%. Net portfolio value is the difference between incoming and outgoing discounted cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – How We Manage Market Risk.” Our Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance Adversely Impacted Our Results of Operations Realization of a deferred tax asset requires us to exercise significant judgment and is inherently uncertain because it requires the prediction of future occurrences. Our net deferred tax asset amounted to $2.5 million at September 30, 2013 compared to $6.8 million at September 30, 2012. The decrease in the net deferred tax asset resulted from the recognition of a deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $12.5 million in fiscal 2013. Based on our analysis of the available positive and negative evidence, we determined that an addition to the DTA valuation allowance should be recorded at September 30, 2013, which resulted in a $6.0 million charge to net income. In the future, the DTA valuation allowance could, in accordance with the requirement of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, be reversed in whole or part. There can be no assurance, however, whether or when we may be able to recover any of the DTA valuation allowance. The Loss of Senior Management Could Hurt Our Operations We rely heavily on our executive officers, Messrs. Anderson, Boyle, Hughes, Neiner and Fuchs. The loss of one or more members of senior management could have an adverse effect on us because, as a relatively small community bank, our senior executive officers have more responsibility than would be typical at a larger financial institution with more employees. In addition, we have fewer management-level personnel who are in a position to assume the responsibilities of our senior executive officers. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area Could Hurt Our Profits and Slow Growth We face intense competition in making loans, attracting deposits and hiring and retaining experienced employees. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits sometimes results in us charging lower interest rates on our loans and paying higher interest rates on our deposits, which reduces our net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult and costly to attract and retain qualified employees. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. The Effects of the Current Economic Conditions Have Been Particularly Severe in Our Primary Market Areas Substantially all of our loans are to individuals, businesses and real estate developers in Chester County, Pennsylvania and neighboring areas in southern Pennsylvania and our business depends significantly on general economic conditions in these market areas. Severe declines in housing prices and property values have been particularly acute in our primary market areas. A further deterioration in economic conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery in our primary market areas could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business: ● Loan delinquencies may increase further; ● Problem assets and foreclosures may increase further; ● Demand for our products and services may decline; ● The carrying value of our other real estate owned may decline further; and ● Collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may continue to decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans. 43 Table of Contents We Operate In a Highly Regulated Environment and We May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in Laws and Regulations We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the FRB, our primary federal regulator, the OCC, the Bank’s primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of the Bank’s deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. The Fair Value of Our Investment Securities Can Fluctuate Due to Market Conditions Outside of Our Control As of September 30, 2013, the fair value of our investment securities portfolio was approximately $124.7 million. We have historically taken a conservative investment strategy, with concentrations of securities that are backed by government sponsored enterprises. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency actions in respect of the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, and changes in market interest rates and continued instability in the capital markets. Any of these factors, among others, could cause other-than-temporary impairments and realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods and declines in other comprehensive income, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The process for determining whether impairment of a security is other-than-temporary usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance and liquidity of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. We Are Dependent On Our Information Technology and Telecommunications Systems and Third-Party Servicers, and Systems Failures, Interruptions or Breaches of Security Could Have a Material Adverse Effect On Us Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If significant, sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we provide our customers with the ability to bank remotely, including over the Internet and over the telephone. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and other remote channels is a critical element of remote banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, regulatory scrutiny, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could materially and adversely affect us. Additionally, financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on the ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations. 44 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 