ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, and as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Revenues generated from our five largest clients represented 81% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012, and any termination of or deterioration in our relationship with any of these clients would result in a decline in our revenues. We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from a limited number of clients, including the Department of Education, CMS and three GAs. Revenues from our five largest clients represented 81% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. We expect that our revenues will become increasingly concentrated with our major clients as a result of rising business volumes under our RAC contract, which accounted for approximately 25.8% of our revenues in 2012, compared to approximately 13.2% of our revenues in 2011. If we lose one of these clients or if the terms of our relationships with any of these clients become less favorable to us, our revenues would decline, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our contracts with our clients for the recovery of student loans and other receivables are subject to periodic renewal or re-bidding processes, are not exclusive and do not commit our clients to provide specified volumes of business and, as a consequence, there is no assurance that we will be able to maintain our revenues and operating results. Substantially all of our existing contracts for the recovery of student loan and other receivables, which represented approximately 63.0% of our revenues in 2012, enable our clients to unilaterally terminate their contractual relationship with us at any time without penalty, potentially leading to loss of business or renegotiation of terms. Our contracts generally are subject to a periodic rebidding process at the end of the contract term. Further, most of our contracts in these markets allow our clients to unilaterally change the volume of loans and other receivables that are placed with us at any given time. In addition, most of our contracts are not exclusive, with our clients retaining multiple service providers with whom we must compete for placements of loans or other obligations. Therefore, despite our contractual relationships with our clients, our contracts do not provide assurance that we will generate a minimum amount of revenues or that we will receive a specific volume of placements. Our revenues and operating results would be negatively affected if our student loans and receivables clients, which include four of our five largest clients in 2012, do not renew their agreements with us upon contract expiration, reduce the volume of student loan placements provided to us, modify the terms of service, including the success fees we are able to earn upon recovery of defaulted student loans, or any of these clients establish more favorable relationships with our competitors. For example, we have been advised that our contractual arrangement with the Department of Education is under review as a result of the Department of Education’s decision to have its recovery vendors promote income-based repayment, or IBR, to defaulted student loans. The IBR program provides flexibility on the required monthly payment for student loan borrowers at an amount intended to be affordable based on a borrower’s income and family size. As a result of the increased application of the IBR program to defaulted student loans, we expect that there will be an increase in the number of loans that become eligible for rehabilitation because more defaulted student loan borrowers will be able to make qualifying payments. In connection with the implementation of the IBR program, we have been advised that the Department of Education will reduce the contingency fee rate that we will receive for rehabilitating student loans by approximately 18% effective March 1, 2013, although this change is still subject to further review and finalization by the Department of Education. Any changes in the contingency fee percentages or other compensation terms that we are paid under existing and future contracts could have a significant impact on our revenues and operating results. We face significant competition in all of the markets in which we operate and an inability to compete effectively in the future could harm our relationships with our clients, which would impact our ability to maintain our revenues and operating results. We operate in very competitive markets. In providing our services to the student loan and other receivables markets, we face competition from many other companies. Initially, we compete with these companies to be one 19 Table of Contents of typically several firms engaged to provide recovery services to a particular client and, if we are successful in being engaged, we then face continuing competition from the client’s other retained firms based on the client’s benchmarking of the recovery rates of its several vendors. Those recovery vendors who produce the highest recovery rates from a client often will be allocated additional placements and in some cases additional success fees. Accordingly, maintaining high levels of recovery performance, and doing so in a cost-effective manner, are important factors in our ability to maintain and grow our revenues and net income and the failure to achieve these objectives could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, we faced a highly competitive bidding process to become one of the four prime RAC contractors that provide recovery services for improper Medicare payments. CMS issued a request for quotes in connection with the re-bidding for the RAC contract in February 2013. Although our RAC contract is currently set to expire in 2014, CMS may terminate our RAC contract as early as August 2013 in connection with the re-bidding process for new RAC contracts. We expect that this process will be competitive. The failure to retain this contract or a significant adverse change in the terms of this contract, which generated approximately 25.8% of our revenues in the year ended December 31, 2012, would seriously harm our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and operating results. Some of our current and potential competitors in the markets in which we operate may have greater financial, marketing, technological or other resources than we do. The ability of any of our competitors and potential competitors to adopt new and effective technology to better serve our markets may allow them to gain market strength. Increasing levels of competition in the future may result in lower recovery fees, lower volumes of contracted recovery services or higher costs for resources. Any inability to compete effectively in the markets that we serve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. federal government accounts for a significant portion of our revenues, and any loss of business from, or change in our relationship with, the U.S. federal government would result in a significant decrease in our revenues and operating results. We have historically derived and are likely to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from the U.S. federal government. For the year ended December 31, 2012, revenues under contracts with the U.S. federal government accounted for approximately 42% of our total revenues, compared to 27% for the year ended December 31, 2011. In addition, fees payable by the U.S. federal government are expected to become a larger percentage of our total revenues over the next several years as a result of legislation that has transferred responsibility for all new student loan origination to the Department of Education. The continuation and exercise of renewal options on existing government contracts and any new government contracts are, among other things, contingent upon the availability of adequate funding for the applicable federal government agency. Changes in federal government spending could directly affect our financial performance. For example, the Obama Administration’s proposed budget for the year ending September 30, 2013, included a proposal designed to redirect federal government spending to an alternative federal program by decreasing the amount that GAs are compensated when they rehabilitate defaulted loans. While the Obama Administration’s budget proposal was not approved by Congress, in June 2012, a bill containing similar provisions reducing the compensation of GAs for rehabilitation of defaulted student loans was subsequently introduced in the U.S. Senate. The loss of business from the U.S. federal government, or significant policy changes or financial pressures within the agencies of the U.S. federal government that we serve would result in a significant decrease in our revenues, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future legislative or regulatory changes affecting the markets in which we operate could impair our business and operations. The two principal markets in which we provide our recovery services, government-supported student loans and the Medicare program, are a subject of significant legislative and regulatory focus and we cannot anticipate how future changes in government policy may affect our business and operations. For example, SAFRA significantly 20 Table of Contents changed the structure of the government-supported student loan market by assigning responsibility for all new government-supported student loan originations to the Department of Education, rather than originations by private institutions and backed by one of 31 government-supported GAs. This legislation, and any future changes in the legislation and regulations that govern these markets, may require us to adapt our business to the new circumstances and we may be unable to do so in a manner that does not adversely affect our business and operations. Our business relationship with the Department of Education has accounted for a significant portion of our revenues and will take on increasing importance to our business as a result of SAFRA. Our failure to maintain this relationship would significantly decrease our revenues. The majority of our historical revenues from the student loan market have come from our relationships with the GAs. As a result of SAFRA, the Department of Education will ultimately become the sole source of revenues in this market, although the GAs will continue to service their existing student loan portfolios for many years to come. As a result, over time, defaults on student loans originated by the Department of Education will predominate and our ability to maintain the revenues we had previously received from a number of GA clients will depend on our relationship with a single client, the Department of Education. While we have 22 years of experience in performing student loan recovery services for the Department of Education, we are one of 17 unrestricted recovery service providers on the current Department of Education contract. In 2012, student loan recovery work for the Department of Education generated revenues of $29.0 million, or approximately 13.8% of our total revenues. The Department of Education is expected to initiate a contract re-compete process during the first half of 2013. If our relationship with the Department of Education terminates or deteriorates or if the Department of Education, ultimately as the sole holder of defaulted student loans, requires its contractors to agree to less favorable terms, our revenues would significantly decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. We could lose clients as a result of consolidation among the GAs, which would decrease our revenues. As a result of SAFRA, which terminated the ability of the GAs to originate government-supported student loans, some have speculated that there may be consolidation among the 31 GAs. If GAs that are our clients are combined with GAs with whom we do not have a relationship, we could suffer a loss of business. We currently have relationships with 11 of the 31 GAs and three of our GA clients were each responsible for more than 10% of our total revenues in 2012. The consolidation of our GA clients with others and the failure to provide recovery services to the consolidated entity could decrease our revenues, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to derive revenues under our RAC contract will depend in part on the number and types of potentially improper claims that we are allowed to pursue by CMS as well as the amounts that we are allowed to recover for CMS, and our results of operations may be harmed if the scope of claims that we are allowed to pursue is limited. While we are the prime contractor responsible for review of Medicare records for all Part A and Part B claims in our region pursuant to the terms of our RAC contract with CMS, we are not permitted to seek the recovery of an improper claim unless that particular type of claim has been pre-approved by CMS to ensure compliance with applicable Medicare payment policies, as well as national and local coverage determinations. While the revenues we earn under our contract with CMS are determined primarily by the aggregate volume of Medicare claims in our region and our ability to successfully identify improper payments within these claims, the long-term growth of the revenues we derive under our RAC contract will also depend in part on CMS expanding the scope of potentially improper claims that we are allowed to pursue under our RAC contract. If we are unable to continue to identify improper claims within the types of claims that we are permitted to pursue from time to time or if CMS does not expand the scope of potentially improper claims that we are allowed to pursue, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Further, the improper claims approved by CMS and identified by us may be challenged by affected parties and these challenges may lead to changes in our RAC contract instituted by CMS. For example, in November 2012 the American Hospital Association and four hospitals filed a lawsuit against Kathleen Sebelius, the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services. The lawsuit claims, among other things, that CMS is acting improperly in completely denying payment for claims initially made under Medicare Part A (inpatient) that should have been made under Medicare Part B (outpatient), rather than remitting the difference between the Part A and Part B payments. This type of improper claim has accounted for a substantial portion of the claims we have identified under our RAC contract. If our contingency fee payment from CMS for identifying these claims is based on the difference between a Part A and Part B payment, our revenues may be harmed. Our results of operations may fluctuate on a quarterly or annual basis and cause volatility in the price of our stock. Our revenues and operating results could vary significantly from period-to-period and may fail to match our past performance because of a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control. Any of these factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate. Factors that could contribute to the variability of our operating results include: • the amount of defaulted student loans and other receivables that our clients place with us for recovery; • the timing of placements of student loans and other receivables which are entirely in the discretion of our clients; • our ability to successfully identify improper Medicare claims and the number and type of potentially improper claims that CMS authorizes us to pursue under our RAC contract; • the loss or gain of significant clients or changes in the contingency fee rates or other significant terms of our business arrangements with our significant clients; • technological and operational issues that may affect our clients and regulatory changes in the markets we service; and • general industry and macroeconomic conditions. For example, a technology system upgrade at the Department of Education caused fluctuations in our operating results. This upgrade significantly decreased the volume of student loan placements by the Department of Education to all recovery vendors, including us, during 2011 and through September 30, 2012. While we and the other recovery vendors have recently received substantially larger placement volume in the fourth quarter of 2012 as a result of the completion of this technology system upgrade, the majority of the revenues from these placements will be delayed until the third quarter of 2013 because we do not begin to earn rehabilitation revenues from a given placement until at least nine months after receipt of a placement. In addition, for approximately twelve months beginning in September 2011, this technology system upgrade prevented the Department of Education from processing a portion of rehabilitated student loans and accordingly we were not able to recognize certain revenues associated with rehabilitation of loans for this client. However, the Department of Education continued to pay us based on invoices submitted and we recorded these cash receipts as deferred revenues on our balance sheet. Further, our claim recovery volume is currently impacted by a system adjustment that is being implemented by CMS for its Periodic Income Payment providers, or PIP providers. PIP providers are reimbursed for Medicare claims through different processes than other healthcare providers, and CMS is in the process of making certain system adjustments in order to allow these claims to be processed. Prior to April 2012, we were not permitted to audit Medicare claims for these PIP providers, which we estimate to account for approximately 20% of Medicare claims in our region. The improper payments to PIP providers that we have identified were not processed by CMS from April 2012 until January 2013, when a small portion of such payments began to be processed manually. As a result, we will not recognize any revenues from identified improper payments to PIP providers as of December 31, 2012, but we have incurred expenses related to these claims. We estimate that this delayed our recognition of approximately $6 million in revenues in 2012, although we began to recognize a portion of these revenues starting in the first quarter of 2013. CMS remains in the process of implementing the necessary changes 22 Table of Contents to its systems that would allow these claims to be processed automatically and allow us to recognize these revenues and we believe that the necessary upgrade will be complete in the second quarter of 2013. While we believe that this delay in automatic processing is temporary, we are uncertain as to when automatic processing will begin and the failure of CMS to process these and future claims on a timely basis will delay our recognition of the revenues until this is resolved. Because our revenues are dependent on many factors, some of which are outside of our control, we may experience significant fluctuations in our results of operations and as a result volatility in our stock price. Downturns in domestic or global economic conditions and other macroeconomic factors could harm our business and results of operations. Various macroeconomic factors influence our business and results of operations. These include the volume of student loan originations in the United States, together with tuition costs and student enrollment rates, the default rate of student loan borrowers, which is impacted by domestic and global economic conditions, rates of unemployment and similar factors, and the growth in Medicare expenditures resulting from changes in healthcare costs. Changes in these factors could lead to a reduction in overall recovery rates by our clients, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, during the global financial crisis beginning in 2008, the market for securitized student loan portfolios was disrupted, resulting in delays in the ability of some GA clients to resell rehabilitated student loans and as a result delaying our ability to recognize revenues from these rehabilitated loans. We may not be able to maintain or increase our profitability, and our recent financial results may not be indicative of our future financial results. We may not succeed in maintaining our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis and could incur quarterly or annual losses in future periods. We have incurred additional operating expenses associated with being a public company and we intend to continue to increase our operating expenses as we grow our business. We also expect to continue to make investments in our proprietary technology platform and hire additional employees and subcontractors as we expand our healthcare recovery and other operations, thus incurring additional expenses. If our revenues do not increase to offset these increases in expenses, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our historical revenues and net income growth rates are not indicative of future growth rates. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively and our results of operations could be negatively affected. Our business has expanded significantly, especially in recent years with the expansion of our services in the healthcare market, and we intend to maintain our focus on growth. However, our continued focus on growth and the expansion of our business may place additional demands on our management, operations and financial resources and will require us to incur additional expenses. We cannot be sure that we will be able to manage our growth effectively. In order to successfully manage our growth, our expenses will increase to recruit, train and manage additional qualified employees and subcontractors and to expand and enhance our administrative infrastructure and continue to improve our management, financial and information systems and controls. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, our expenses may increase and our results of operations could be negatively affected. A failure of our operating systems or technology infrastructure, or those of our third-party vendors and subcontractors, could disrupt the operation of our business. A failure of our operating systems or technology infrastructure, or those of our third-party vendors and subcontractors, could disrupt our operations. Our operating systems and technology infrastructure are susceptible to damage or interruption from various causes, including acts of God and other natural disasters, power losses, computer systems failures, Internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator error, computer viruses, losses of and corruption of data and similar events. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays or cessations in service to our clients, reduce the attractiveness of our recovery services to 23 Table of Contents current or potential clients and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. While we have backup systems in many of our operating facilities, an extended outage of utility or network services may harm our ability to operate our business. Further, the situations we plan for and the amount of insurance coverage we maintain for losses as result of failures of our operating systems and infrastructure may not be adequate in any particular case. If our security measures are breached or fail and unauthorized access is obtained to our clients’ confidential data, our services may be perceived as insecure, the attractiveness of our recovery services to current or potential clients may be reduced, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our recovery services involve the storage and transmission of confidential information relating to our clients and their customers, including health, financial, credit, payment and other personal or confidential information. Although our data security procedures are designed to protect against unauthorized access to confidential information, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access and disclosure of our clients’ confidential information. Further, we may not effectively adapt our security measures to evolving security risks, address the security and privacy concerns of existing or potential clients as they change over time, or be compliant with federal, state, and local laws and regulations with respect to securing confidential information. Unauthorized access to confidential information relating to our clients and their customers could lead to reputational damage which could deter our clients and potential clients from selecting our recovery services, or result in termination of contracts with those clients affected by any such breach, regulatory action, and claims against us. In the event of any unauthorized access to personal or other confidential information, we may be required to expend significant resources to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities in our security procedures, and we may be subject to fines, penalties, litigation costs, and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. If one or more of such failures in our security and privacy measures were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Our business may be harmed if we lose members of our management team or other key employees. We are highly dependent on members of our management team and other key employees and our future success depends in part on our ability to retain these people. Our inability to continue to attract and retain members of our management team and other key employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The growth of our healthcare business will require us to hire and retain employees with specialized skills and failure to do so could harm our ability to grow our business. The growth of our healthcare business will depend in part on our ability to recruit, train and manage additional qualified employees. Our healthcare-related operations require us to hire registered nurses and experts in Medicare coding. Finding, attracting and retaining employees with these skills is a critical component of providing our healthcare-related recovery and audit services, and our inability to staff these operations appropriately represents a risk to our healthcare service offering and associated revenues. An inability to hire qualified personnel, particularly to serve our healthcare clients, may restrain the growth of our business. We rely on subcontractors to provide services to our clients and the failure of subcontractors to perform as expected could harm our business operations and our relationships with our clients. We engage subcontractors to provide certain services to our clients. These subcontractors participate to varying degrees in our recovery activities with regards to all of the services we provide. While most of our subcontractors provide specific services to us, we engage one subcontractor to provide all of the audit and recovery services under our contract with CMS within a portion of our region. According to CMS, the 24 Table of Contents geographic area allocated to this subcontractor accounted for approximately 17% of total Medicare spending in our region in 2009. While we believe that we perform appropriate due diligence before we hire subcontractors, our subcontractors may not provide adequate service or otherwise comply with the terms set forth in their agreements. In the event a subcontractor provides deficient performance to one or more of our clients, any such client may reduce the volume of services we are providing under an existing contract or may terminate the relevant contract entirely and we may face claims for breach of contract. Any such disruption in our relations with our clients as a result of services provided by any of our subcontractors could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. If our software vendors or utility and network providers fail to deliver or perform as expected our business operations could be adversely affected. Our recovery services depend in part on third-party providers, including software vendors and utility and network providers. Our ability to service our clients depends on these third-party providers meeting our expectations and contractual obligations in a timely and effective manner. Our business could be materially and adversely affected, and we might incur significant additional liabilities, if the services provided by these third-party providers do not meet our expectations or if they terminate or refuse to renew their relationships with us on similar contractual terms. We are subject to extensive regulations regarding the use and disclosure of confidential personal information and failure to comply with these regulations could cause us to incur liabilities and expenses. We are subject to a wide array of federal and state laws and regulations regarding the use and disclosure of confidential personal information and security. For example, the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, or HIPAA, and related state laws subject us to substantial restrictions and requirements with respect to the use and disclosure of the personal health information that we obtain in connection with our audit and recovery services under our contract with CMS and we must establish administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality of this information. Similar protections extend to the type of personal financial and other information we acquire from our student loan, state tax and federal receivables clients. We are required to notify affected individuals and government agencies of data security breaches involving protected health and certain personally identifiable information. These laws and regulations also require that we develop, implement and maintain written, comprehensive information security programs containing safeguards that are appropriate to protect personally identifiable information or health information against unauthorized access, misuse, destruction or modification. Federal law generally does not preempt state law in the area of protection of personal information, and as a result we must also comply with state laws and regulations. Regulation of privacy, data use and security requires that we incur significant expenses, which could increase in the future as a result of additional regulations, all of which adversely affects our results of operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in penalties and in some cases expose us to civil lawsuits. Our student loan recovery business is subject to extensive regulation and consumer protection laws and our failure to comply with these regulations and laws may subject us to liability and result in significant costs. Our student loan recovery business is subject to regulation and oversight by various state and federal agencies, particularly in the area of consumer protection. The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, or FDCPA, and related state laws provide specific guidelines that we must follow in communicating with holders of student loans and regulates the manner in which we can recover defaulted student loans. Some state attorney generals have been active in this area of consumer protection regulation. We are subject, and may be subject in the future, to inquiries and audits from state and federal regulators, as well as frequent litigation from private plaintiffs regarding compliance under the FDCPA and related state regulations. We are also subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act, or FCRA, which regulates consumer credit reporting and may impose liability on us to the extent adverse credit information reported to a credit bureau is false or inaccurate. Our compliance with the FDCPA, 25 Table of Contents FCRA and other federal and state regulations that affect our student loan recovery business may result in significant costs, including litigation costs. We may also become subject to regulations promulgated by the United States Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, which was established in July 2011 as part of the Dodd-Frank Act to, among other things, establish regulations regarding consumer financial protection laws. Changes to existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations if we are not able to adapt our services and client relationships to meet the new regulatory structure. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and qualified board members. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased our legal and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increased or will continue to increase demand on our systems and resources, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Although we have already hired additional employees to comply with these requirements, we may need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants, which will increase our costs and expenses. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We will continue to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected. However, for as long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies,” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years following our initial public offering in August 2012, although if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time, our revenues exceed $1 billion, or we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three-year period, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of the following December 31. 26 Table of Contents As a result of disclosure of information as a public company, our business and financial condition have become more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business operations and financial results could be adversely affected, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and adversely affect our business operations and financial results. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees, executive officers and members of our board of directors. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley would impair our ability to produce accurate and reliable financial statements, which would harm our stock price. We are subject to reporting obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that require us to include a management report on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2013 and complying with these requirements can be difficult. For example, in June 2012, our independent registered public accounting firm determined that we had incorrectly accounted for our mandatorily redeemable preferred stock, which required audit adjusting entries for the three-year period ended December 31, 2011. Our failure to detect this error was deemed to be a deficiency in internal control and this deficiency was considered to be a material weakness. To address this situation, our independent registered public accounting firm recommended that the Company emphasize the importance of thoroughly researching all new accounting policies and revisiting accounting policies set for existing transactions when changes in the business or reporting requirements occur or are expected to occur. To prevent issues like these in the future, we have bolstered our technical accounting expertise and, where appropriate, engaged outside consultants with specialized knowledge. Our management may conclude that our internal control over our financial reporting is not effective. As we only recently became a public company following the completion of our initial public offering on August 15, 2012, we have limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. If we fail to timely achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to produce reliable financial reports or help prevent fraud. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could prevent us from filing our periodic reports on a timely basis, which could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis. However, our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, if we continue to take advantage of the exemptions contained in the JOBS Act. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. Our remediation efforts may not enable us to avoid a material weakness in the future. Litigation may result in substantial costs of defense, damages or settlement, any of which could subject us to significant costs and expenses. We are party to lawsuits in the normal course of business, particularly in connection with our student loan recovery services. For example, we are regularly subject to claims that we have violated the guidelines and procedures that must be followed under federal and state laws in communicating with consumer debtors. We may not ultimately prevail or otherwise be able to satisfactorily resolve any pending or future litigation, which may result in substantial costs of defense, damages or settlement. In the future, we may be required to alter our 27 Table of Contents business practices or pay substantial damages or settlement costs as a result of litigation proceedings, which could adversely affect our business operations and results of operations. We typically face a long period to implement a new contract which may cause us to incur expenses before we receive revenues from new client relationships. If we are successful in obtaining an engagement with a new client or a new contract with an existing client, we typically have a subsequent long implementation period in which the services are planned in detail and we integrate our technology, processes and resources with the client’s operations. If we enter into a contract with a new client, we typically will not receive revenues until implementation is completed and work under the contract actually begins. Our clients may also experience delays in obtaining approvals or delays associated with technology or system implementations, such as the delays experienced with the implementation of our RAC contract with CMS due to an appeal by competitors who were unsuccessful in bidding on the contract. Because we generally begin to hire new employees to provide services to a new client once a contract is signed, we may incur significant expenses associated with these additional hires before we receive corresponding revenues under any such new contract. If we are not successful in maintaining contractual commitments after the expenses we incur during our typically long implementation cycle, our results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary technology, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur significant costs to enforce our rights. The success of our business depends in part upon our proprietary technology platform. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as on confidentiality procedures and non-compete agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary technology rights. The steps we have taken to deter misappropriation of our proprietary technology may be insufficient to protect our proprietary information. Any infringement or misappropriation of our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, or other intellectual property rights could adversely affect any competitive advantage we currently derive or may derive from our proprietary technology platform and we may incur significant costs associated with litigation that may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property could force us to incur significant costs or revise the way we conduct our business. Our competitors protect their proprietary rights by means of patents, trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property. Any party asserting that we infringe, misappropriate or violate their intellectual property rights may force us to defend ourselves, and potentially our clients, against the alleged claim. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, subject us to significant liability for damages or invalidation of our proprietary rights, prevent us from operating all or a portion of our business or force us to redesign our services or technology platform or cause an interruption or cessation of our business operations, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, any litigation relating to the infringement of intellectual property rights could harm our relationships with current and prospective clients. The risk of such claims and lawsuits could increase if we increase the size and scope of our services in our existing markets or expand into new markets. We may make acquisitions that prove unsuccessful, strain or divert our resources and harm our results of operations and stock price. We may consider acquisitions of other companies in our industry or in new markets. We may not be able to successfully complete any such acquisition and, if completed, any such acquisition may fail to achieve the intended financial results. We may not be able to successfully integrate any acquired businesses with our own and we may be unable to maintain our standards, controls and policies. Further, acquisitions may place additional constraints on our resources by diverting the attention of our management from other business concerns. 28 Table of Contents Moreover, any acquisition may result in a potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations and stock price. Our current or future indebtedness could adversely affect our business and financial condition and reduce the funds available to us for other purposes, and our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in an event of default that could adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2012, our total debt was $147.8 million. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our consolidated interest expense was approximately $12.4 million. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations and to fund our other liquidity needs depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot make assurances that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness and to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations and allow us to maintain compliance with the covenants under our credit agreement or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot ensure that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including our credit agreement. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our credit agreement could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing our borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Our debt agreements contain, and any agreements to refinance our debt likely will contain, financial and restrictive covenants that limit our ability to incur additional debt, including to finance future operations or other capital needs, and to engage in other activities that we may believe are in our long-term best interests, including to dispose of or acquire assets. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness or result in modifications to our credit terms. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient cash resources to satisfy our debt obligations and we may not be able to continue our operations as planned. If securities analysts do not publish research or if securities analysts or other third parties publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about us, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that securities analysts and other third parties choose to publish about us. We do not control whether these analysts or other third parties provide research regarding our company. The price of our common stock could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our common stock or if one or more securities analysts or other third parties publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about us or cease publishing reports about us. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We are subject to certain phase-in provisions of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules and, as a result, we will not immediately be subject to certain corporate governance provisions. Because of our public offering in February 2013, Parthenon Capital Partners no longer controls a majority of our common stock. As a result, we will no longer be a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the NASDAQ Global Select Market. However, we will rely on phase-in provisions for certain stock exchange corporate governance requirements, including: • the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consists of independent directors; • the requirement that nominating and corporate governance matters be decided solely by independent directors; and 29 Table of Contents • the requirement that employee and officer compensation matters be decided solely by independent directors. We intend to utilize each of these phase-in provisions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors and our nominating and corporate governance and compensation functions are not decided solely by independent directors. Accordingly, you do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the stock exchange corporate governance requirements. The price of our common stock could be volatile. Since our initial public offering in August 2012, the price of our common stock, as reported by NASDAQ, has ranged from a low sales price of $7.55 on November 27, 2012 to a high sales price of $14.09 on March 4, 2013. The trading price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors, including: quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections; changes in investors’ and analysts’ perception of the business risks and conditions of our business; our ability to meet the earnings estimates and other performance expectations of financial analysts or investors; unfavorable commentary or downgrades of our stock by equity research analysts; termination of lock-up agreements or other restrictions on the ability of our existing stockholders to sell their shares after our public offering in February 2013 and our initial public offering; changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of debt or equity securities; lawsuits threatened or filed against us; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; new legislation or regulatory actions; changes in our relationship with any of our significant clients; fluctuations in the stock prices of our peer companies or in stock markets in general; and general economic conditions. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of our common stock may lower our stock price. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition, the perception in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could depress the market price of our common stock, regardless of the actual plans of our existing stockholders. As of March 20, 2013, a total of 46,720,569 shares of common stock were outstanding, assuming that there are no exercises of options after December 31, 2012. Of these shares, the 9,200,000 shares of common stock sold in our February 2013 offering and the 10,350,000 shares that were sold in our initial public offering, will be freely tradable in the public market without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act, unless these shares are held by “affiliates,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. 27,728,773 shares are subject to lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our February 2013 offering restricting the sale of those shares until May 2013, unless otherwise extended. The underwriters may waive the lock-up restriction and allow any of the stockholders subject to this restriction to sell their shares at any time. Our significant stockholder has the ability to control significant corporate activities and our majority stockholder’s interests may not coincide with yours. Parthenon Capital Partners beneficially owned approximately 48.7% of our common stock as of March 20, 2013. As a result of its ownership, Parthenon Capital Partner has the ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of stockholders and, through our board of directors, the ability to control decision-making with respect to our business direction and policies. Parthenon Capital Partners may have interests different from our other stockholders’ interests, and may vote in a manner adverse to those interests. Matters over which Parthenon Capital Partners can, directly or indirectly, exercise influence include: • the election of our board of directors and the appointment and removal of our officers; • mergers and other business combination transactions, including proposed transactions that would result in our stockholders receiving a premium price for their shares; 30 Table of Contents • other acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets; • incurrence of indebtedness and the issuance of equity securities; • repurchase of stock and payment of dividends; and • the issuance of shares to management under our equity incentive plans. In addition, Parthenon Capital Partners has a contractual right to designate a number of directors proportionate to its stock ownership. Further, under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, Parthenon Capital Partners does not have any obligation to present to us, and Parthenon Capital Partners may separately pursue, corporate opportunities of which it becomes aware, even if those opportunities are ones that we would have pursued if granted the opportunity. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include the following provisions: establishing a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; providing that directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause at such time as Parthenon Capital Partners no longer beneficially owns a majority of our outstanding shares; authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting at such time as Parthenon Capital Partners no longer beneficially owns a majority of our outstanding shares; limiting our ability to engage in certain business combinations with any “interested stockholder,” other than Parthenon Capital Partners, for a three-year period following the time that the stockholder became an interested stockholder; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; requiring a super majority vote for certain amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws after the time when Parthenon Capital Partners ceased to beneficially own a majority of our outstanding shares, which occurred in February 2013; and limiting the determination of the number of directors on our board of directors and, when Parthenon Capital Partners is no longer our majority stockholder, the filling of vacancies or newly created seats on the board, to our board of directors then in office. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control, could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Because we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on investment unless you are able to sell your common stock for a price greater than your purchase price. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictive covenants contained in our credit agreement. As a result, you may not receive any return on investment unless you are able to sell your common stock for a price greater than your purchase price. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 31 Table of Contents 