Item 1A. Risk Factors In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. We are subject to credit risk in connection with our lending activities, and our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted by economic conditions and other factors that adversely affect our borrowers. Our financial condition and results of operations are affected by the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, and in a timely manner. Lending money is a significant part of the banking business. Borrowers, however, do not always repay their loans. The risk of non-payment is assessed through our underwriting and loan review procedures based on several factors including credit risks of a particular borrower, changes in economic conditions, the duration of the loan and in the case of a collateralized loan, uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral and other factors. Despite our efforts, we do and will experience loan losses, and our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our non-performing assets were approximately $4.4 million at September 30, 2014. Our allowance for loan losses was approximately $4.6 million at September 30, 2014. Our loans between thirty and eighty-nine days delinquent totaled $1.6 million at September 30, 2014. The changing economic environment may continue to adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments in the financial services industry from 2008 into 2014 have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn globally. As a consequence of the recent United States recession, business activities across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the decline in the housing market and lack of consumer spending. Unemployment continues to be higher than historical averages. As a result of these financial economic crises, many lending institutions, including us, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans, including residential, construction, commercial and consumer loans. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly while the significant decline in economic growth has led to a slowdown in banking related activities. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • we potentially face increased regulation of our industry and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities; ​ • customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates; ​ • the process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans; and ​ • the value of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold may be adversely affected. ​ Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. We are unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including inflation, recession, unemployment, monetary policy, domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets, and investor and consumer demand. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The level of net interest income is primarily a function of the average balance of our interest-earning assets, the average balance of our interest-bearing 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS liabilities, and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by such external factors as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and market interest rates. A sustained increase in market interest rates would adversely affect our earnings. A significant portion of our loans have fixed interest rates and longer terms than our deposits and borrowings and our net interest income could be adversely affected if the rates we pay on deposits and borrowings increase more rapidly than the rates we earn on loans. In addition, the market value of our fixed-rate assets would decline if interest rates increase. For example, we estimate that as of September 30, 2014, a 300 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in our net portfolio value declining by approximately $37.0 million or 44%. Net portfolio value is the difference between incoming and outgoing discounted cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — How We Manage Market Risk.” Our loan portfolio exhibits a high degree of risk. We have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, as well as construction and development loans and second mortgages (home equity loans) that have a higher risk of default and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans. Although permanent single-family, owner-occupied loans represent the largest single component of assets and currently impaired loans, commercial real estate loans, as well as construction and development loans and second mortgages (home equity loans) amounted to $125.6 million, or 32.3% of our loan portfolio at September 30, 2014. Commercial real estate and construction and development loans generally are considered to involve a higher degree of risk due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances and loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at the stated maturity date. Repayment of commercial real estate loans generally is dependent on income being generated by the rental property or underlying business in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. Repayment of construction and development loans generally is dependent on the successful completion of the project and the ability of the borrower to repay the loan from the sale of the property or obtaining permanent financing. Our second mortgage loans generally are considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential mortgage loans due to the generally higher loan-to-value ratios and their secondary position in the collateral to the existing first mortgage. Our monitoring of higher risk loans and the internal asset review function may be inadequate in view of current real estate market weaknesses. Our provisions to our allowance for loan losses and our net charge-offs to our allowance for loan losses have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our results of operations. Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. While we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance, losses may exceed the value of the collateral securing the loans and the allowance may not fully cover any excess loss. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Our allowance for loan losses is based on these judgments, as well as historical loss experience and an evaluation of the other risks associated with our loan portfolio, including but not limited to, the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. Federal regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions or judgments used to determine the allowance prove to be incorrect, if the value of the collateral securing the loans decreases substantially or if our regulators disagree with our judgments, we may need to increase the allowance in amounts that exceed our expectations. Additions to the allowance adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We recorded a $263,000 provision for loan losses during the year ended September 30, 2014, compared to provisions of $11.2 million and $810,000 for the years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Failure to comply with the Formal Agreement could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In October 2014, the Bank, entered into the Formal Agreement. The Formal Agreement imposes a number of operating restrictions and requirements that the Bank revise and/or implement and monitor various identified policies, procedures and reports. Failure to comply with the Formal Agreement could result in additional supervisory and enforcement actions against the Bank and/or its directors and senior executive officers, including the issuance of a cease and desist order or the imposition of civil money penalties. In addition, compliance efforts related to the Formal Agreement have an adverse impact on our non-interest expense. Our deferred tax asset valuation allowance adversely impacted our results of operations. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. At September 30, 2014, the net deferred tax asset was approximately $2.4 million, compared to a balance of approximately $2.5 million at September 30, 2013. The decrease in net deferred tax asset resulted mainly from the recognition of a deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $10.1 million in 2014. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability to determine whether it is more likely that not (i.e. likelihood of more that 50%) that some portion, or all, of the deferred tax asset will not be realized within its life cycle, based on the weight of available evidence. If management makes a determination based on the available evidence that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods, a valuation allowance is calculated and recorded. The determinations are inherently subjective and dependent upon estimates and judgments concerning management’s evaluation of both positive and negative evidence. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. The banking and financial services industry in our market area is highly competitive. We may not be able to compete effectively in our markets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The increasingly competitive environment is a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and consolidation among financial service providers. Larger institutions have greater access to capital markets, with higher lending limits and a broader array of services. Competition may require increases in deposit rates and decreases in loan rates, and adversely impact our net interest margin. The effects of the current economic conditions have been particularly severe in our primary market areas. Substantially all of our loans are to individuals, businesses and real estate developers in Chester County, Pennsylvania and neighboring areas in southern Pennsylvania and our business depends significantly on general economic conditions in these market areas. Severe declines in housing prices and property values have been particularly acute in our primary market areas. A further deterioration in economic conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery in our primary market areas could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business: • Loan delinquencies may increase further; ​ • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase further; ​ • Demand for our products and services may decline; ​ • The carrying value of our other real estate owned may decline further; and ​ • Collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may continue to decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans. ​ We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the FRB, our primary federal regulator, the OCC, the Bank’s primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS Corporation, as insurer of the Bank’s deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. The fair value of our investment securities can fluctuate due to market conditions outside of our control. As of September 30, 2014, the fair value of our investment securities portfolio was approximately $100.9 million. We have historically taken a conservative investment strategy, with concentrations of securities that are backed by government sponsored enterprises. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency actions in respect of the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, and changes in market interest rates and continued instability in the capital markets. Any of these factors, among others, could cause other-than-temporary impairments and realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods and declines in other comprehensive income, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The process for determining whether impairment of a security is other-than-temporary usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance and liquidity of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If significant, sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we provide our customers with the ability to bank remotely, including over the Internet and over the telephone. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and other remote channels is a critical element of remote banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, regulatory scrutiny, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could materially and adversely affect us. Additionally, financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on the ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS​​​​ Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 