Item 1A. Risk Factors. In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. We Have Incurred Losses in Recent Years. There Can Be No Assurance That We Will Return to Profitability on a Sustained Basis. While we reported net income of $2.0 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, during the years ended September 30, 2010 and 2011, we incurred net losses of $3.1 million and $6.1 million, respectively. These losses were primarily due to deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio which resulted in significantly higher provisions for loan losses and other real estate owned expenses. In addition, the operating restrictions imposed by the Supervisory Agreements to which we are subject restrict our ability to increase our lending and grow the assets of Malvern Federal Savings Bank. Finally, our average balance of interest-earning assets has shrunk by 5.2% in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2010, reducing our capacity to generate interest income. Our ability to generate net income on a sustained basis depends on being able to reduce the costs associated with our non-performing assets and other problem assets we have experienced in recent years. In addition, our results in future periods will depend upon whether we are able to have the restrictions of the Supervisory Agreements abated such that we can resume originating commercial real estate loans and resume growing our balance sheet consistent with our business strategy. If we are unable to accomplish these items we may be unable to maintain profitability on a sustained basis. In addition, in the event we receive the regulatory approvals or non-objections necessary for us to resume originating commercial real estate loans, we will need to hire additional personnel for such purpose. We expect that, in such event, we would hire one or two additional loan officers and one additional staff employee, which will increase our salaries and benefits expense. Our Portfolio of Loans Continues to Include a Significant Amount of Loans with a Higher Risk of Loss Until fiscal 2010, our business plan had included as a strategy the increased originations of commercial real estate loans, construction and development loans and second mortgages (home equity loans). These loans have a higher risk of default and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans. The aggregate amount of our commercial real estate loans, construction and development loans and second mortgages (home equity loans) amounted to $199.0 million, or 43.1% of our total loan portfolio at September 30, 2012. Commercial real estate and construction and development loans generally are considered to involve a higher degree of risk due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances and loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at the stated maturity date. Repayment of commercial real estate loans generally is dependent on income being generated by the rental property or underlying business in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. Repayment of construction and development loans generally is dependent on the successful completion of the project and the ability of the borrower to repay the loan from the sale of the property or obtaining permanent financing. Our second mortgage loans generally are considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential mortgage loans due to the generally higher loan-to-value ratios and their secondary position in the collateral to the existing first mortgage. Our Provisions to Our Allowance for Loan Losses and Our Net Charge-Offs to Our Allowance for Loan Losses Have Adversely Affected, and May Continue to Adversely Affect, Our Results of Operations Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. While we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance, losses may exceed the value of the collateral securing the loans and the allowance may not fully cover any excess loss. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Our allowance for loan losses is based on these judgments, as well as historical loss experience and an evaluation of the other risks associated with our loan portfolio, including but not limited to, the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. Federal regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions or judgments used to determine the allowance prove to be incorrect, if the value of the collateral securing the loans decreases substantially or if our regulators disagree with our judgments, we may need to increase the allowance in amounts that exceed our expectations. Material additions to the allowance would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 44 Table of Contents We recorded an $810,000 provision for loan losses during the year ended September 30, 2012, compared to provisions of $12.4 million and $9.4 million for the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our non-performing assets amounted to $14.3 million or 2.01% of total assets at September 30, 2012, compared to $21.2 million or 3.19% of total assets at September 30, 2011 and $25.2 million, or 3.49% of total assets, at September 30, 2010. We had net charge-offs of $3.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2012 compared with $10.4 million and $6.9 million of net charge-offs for the year ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The decrease in the provision for loan losses in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 was in response to, among other factors, the overall improvement in the trend of delinquent, impaired and non-performing loans. The Supervisory Agreements Limit Our Ability to Grow and to Pay Dividends and Impose Other Restrictions Which May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations And the Market Value of Our Common Stock In October 2010, the Bank, the Company and the Mutual Holding Company entered into the Supervisory Agreements. See Item 1, “Business – Regulation – The Supervisory Agreements” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result of the Supervisory Agreement, the Bank must limit its asset growth in any quarter to an amount which does not exceed the amount of net interest credited on deposit liabilities during the quarter, unless otherwise permitted by the OCC. In addition, the Supervisory Agreements impose a number of operating restrictions, including a provision which prohibits, with certain exceptions, any new commercial real estate loans or commercial and industrial loans without the prior written non-objection of the OCC, and imposes requirements that the Bank revise and/or implement and monitor various identified policies, procedures and reports. The lending and growth restrictions in the Supervisory Agreements have had an adverse impact on the average yield earned on our loan portfolio and have contributed to a reduction in the average balance of our loan portfolio, both of which have reduced our interest income. In addition, compliance efforts related to the Supervisory Agreements have increased our non-interest expense. In addition, the restrictions in the Supervisory Agreements on our ability to declare or pay dividends or make stock repurchases without the prior written approval of the OCC may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. While we plan to request relief from the Supervisory Agreements during fiscal 2013, no assurance can be given whether any relief will be granted. Higher Interest Rates Would Hurt Our Profitability Management is unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including inflation, recession, unemployment, monetary policy, domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets, and investor and consumer demand. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income generated by our interest-earning assets (consisting primarily of single-family residential loans) and the interest expense generated by our interest-bearing liabilities (consisting primarily of deposits). The level of net interest income is primarily a function of the average balance of our interest-earning assets, the average balance of our interest-bearing liabilities, and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by such external factors as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors (the “FOMC”), and market interest rates. A sustained increase in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings. A significant portion of our loans have fixed interest rates and longer terms than our deposits and borrowings and our net interest income could be adversely affected if the rates we pay on deposits and borrowings increase more rapidly than the rates we earn on loans. In addition, the market value of our fixed-rate assets would decline if interest rates increase. For example, we estimate that as of September 30, 2012, a 300 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in our net portfolio value declining by approximately $10.2 million or 15%. Net portfolio value is the difference between incoming and outgoing discounted cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – How We Manage Market Risk.” 45 Table of Contents The Ability to Realize Our Deferred Tax Asset May Be Reduced, Which May Adversely Impact Results of Operations Realization of a deferred tax asset requires us to exercise significant judgment and is inherently uncertain because it requires the prediction of future occurrences. Our net deferred tax asset amounted to $6.8 million at September 30, 2012. Other than an $800,000 allowance with respect to state net operating losses and $74,000 allowance with respect to charitable contributions, we have not established a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax asset as we believe it is more likely than not that the remaining amount of the asset will be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we must estimate our taxable income in future years. Our deferred tax asset may be reduced in the future if estimates of future income or our tax planning strategies do not support the amount of the deferred tax asset. If it is determined that a valuation allowance with respect to our deferred tax asset is necessary, we may incur a charge to earnings and a reduction to regulatory capital for the amount included therein. The Loss of Senior Management Could Hurt Our Operations We rely heavily on our executive officers, Messrs. Anderson, Boyle, Hughes, Neiner and Fuchs. The loss of one or more members of senior management could have an adverse effect on us because, as a relatively small community bank, our senior executive officers have more responsibility than would be typical at a larger financial institution with more employees. In addition, we have fewer management-level personnel who are in a position to assume the responsibilities of our senior executive officers. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area Could Hurt Our Profits and Slow Growth We face intense competition in making loans, attracting deposits and hiring and retaining experienced employees. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits sometimes results in us charging lower interest rates on our loans and paying higher interest rates on our deposits, which reduces our net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult and costly to attract and retain qualified employees. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. The Effects of the Current Economic Conditions Have Been Particularly Severe in Our Primary Market Areas Substantially all of our loans are to individuals, businesses and real estate developers in Chester County, Pennsylvania and neighboring areas in southern Pennsylvania and our business depends significantly on general economic conditions in these market areas. Severe declines in housing prices and property values have been particularly acute in our primary market areas. A further deterioration in economic conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery in our primary market areas could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business: ● Loan delinquencies may increase further; ● Problem assets and foreclosures may increase further; ● Demand for our products and services may decline; ● The carrying value of our other real estate owned may decline further; and ● Collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may continue to decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans. 46 Table of Contents Increased and/or Special Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Assessments Will Hurt Our Earnings There has been a high level of bank failures in recent years, which has dramatically increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the year ended September 30, 2009, was $320,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation required all institutions to prepay their assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. We Operate In a Highly Regulated Environment and We May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in Laws and Regulations We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the FRB, our primary federal regulator, the OCC, the Bank’s primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of the Bank’s deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh May Not Pay Dividends Or Repurchase Capital Stock In The Future In 2008, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (“FHLB”) announced that it would voluntarily suspend the payment of dividends and the repurchase of excess capital stock until further notice. The FHLB announced at that time that it expected its ability to pay dividends and add to retained earnings to be significantly curtailed due to low short-term interest rates, an increased cost of maintaining liquidity, other than temporary impairment charges, and constrained access to debt markets at attractive rates. While FHLB resumed paying dividends and making capital stock repurchase in February 2012, capital stock repurchases and dividends from member banks are reviewed on a quarterly basis by the FHLB and could be discontinued in the future. As of September 30, 2012, we held $4.1 million of FHLB capital stock. The Fair Value of Our Investment Securities Can Fluctuate Due to Market Conditions Outside of Our Control As of September 30, 2012, the fair value of our investment securities portfolio was approximately $80.5 million. We have historically taken a conservative investment strategy, with concentrations of securities that are backed by government sponsored enterprises. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency actions in respect of the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, and changes in market interest rates and continued instability in the capital markets. Any of these factors, among others, could cause other-than-temporary impairments and realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods and declines in other comprehensive income, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The process for determining whether impairment of a security is other-than-temporary usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance and liquidity of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. 47 Table of Contents We Are Dependent On Our Information Technology and Telecommunications Systems and Third-Party Servicers, and Systems Failures, Interruptions or Breaches of Security Could Have a Material Adverse Effect On Us Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If significant, sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we provide our customers with the ability to bank remotely, including over the Internet and over the telephone. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and other remote channels is a critical element of remote banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, regulatory scrutiny, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could materially and adversely affect us. Additionally, financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on the ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 48 Table of Contents 