D. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if any of the risks described below occur. As a result, the market price of our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, or our Series B shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” The risks described below are those known to us or that we currently believe may materially and adversely affect us; other risks not currently known to us may arise in the future or may reach a greater level of materiality, which may materially and adversely affect us and our business. Risks Associated with Our Business We are vulnerable to the current disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets. In the past five years, financial systems worldwide have experienced difficult credit and liquidity conditions and disruptions leading to less liquidity, greater volatility, general widening of spreads and, in some cases, lack of price transparency on interbank lending rates. Global economic conditions deteriorated significantly between 2007 and 2009, and many countries, including the United States, fell into recession. Recessionary conditions continue in some countries. Many major financial institutions, including some of the world’s largest global commercial banks, investment banks, mortgage lenders, mortgage guarantors and insurance companies, experienced, and some continue to experience, significant difficulties. Around the world, there have also been runs on deposits at several financial institutions, numerous institutions have sought additional capital or have been assisted by governments, and many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers (including to other financial institutions). The global economic slowdown and U.S. economic slowdown in particular had a negative impact on the Mexican economy and have adversely affected our business. In particular, we may face, among others, the following risks related to the economic downturn: · We potentially face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, may affect the pricing for our products and services, and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. · Reduced demand for our products and services. · Inability of our borrowers to timely or fully comply with their existing obligations. · The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The degree of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates, which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process and the quality of our assets. · The value and liquidity of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold may be adversely affected. · Worsening of the global economic conditions may delay the recovery of the international financial industry and impact our financial condition and results of operations. Some uncertainty remains concerning the future economic environment and there is no assurance when such conditions will improve. While certain segments of the global economy are currently experiencing a moderate recovery, we expect these conditions to continue to have an ongoing negative impact on our business and results of operations. Global investor confidence remains cautious and downgrades of the sovereign debt of Ireland, Greece, Portugal, Spain, Italy and France, as well as the recent developments and banking crisis in Cyprus, have caused volatility in the capital markets. A slowing or failing of the economic recovery would likely aggravate the adverse effects of these difficult economic and market conditions on us and on others in the financial services industry. Continued or worsening disruption and volatility in the global financial markets could have a material adverse effect on us, including our ability to access capital and liquidity on financial terms acceptable to us, if at all. If capital markets financing ceases to become available, or becomes excessively expensive, we may be forced to raise the rates we pay on deposits to attract more customers and/or become unable to maintain certain liability maturities. Any such increase in capital markets funding costs or deposit rates could have a material adverse effect on our interest margins. 7 Table of Contents If all or some of the foregoing risks were to materialize, this could have a material adverse effect on us. Our financial results are constantly exposed to market risk. We are subject to fluctuations in interest rates and other market risks, which may materially and adversely affect us. Market risk refers to the probability of variations in our net interest income or in the market value of our assets and liabilities due to volatility of interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices. Changes in interest rates affect the following areas, among others, of our business: · net interest income; · the volume of loans originated; · the market value of our securities holdings; and · gains from sales of loans and securities. Variations in short-term interest rates could affect our net interest income, which comprises the majority of our revenue. When interest rates rise, we may be required to pay higher interest on our floating-rate borrowings while interest earned on our fixed-rate assets does not rise as quickly, which could cause profits to grow at a reduced rate or decline in some parts of our portfolio. Interest rate variations could adversely affect us, including our net interest income, reducing its growth rate or even resulting in losses. We monitor our interest rate risk using the Net Interest Margin, or NIM, sensitivity, which is the difference between the return on assets and the financial cost of our financial liabilities based on a one-year time frame and a parallel movement of 100 basis points (1%) in market interest rates. As of December 31, 2012, the 1% NIM sensitivity was Ps.873.7 million. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including increased regulation of the financial sector, monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors. Increases in interest rates may reduce the volume of loans we originate. Sustained high interest rates have historically discouraged customers from borrowing and have resulted in increased delinquencies in outstanding loans and deterioration in the quality of assets. Increases in interest rates may also reduce the propensity of our customers to prepay or refinance fixed-rate loans. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of our financial assets. We hold a substantial portfolio of loans and debt securities that have both fixed and floating interest rates. If interest rates decrease, although this is likely to decrease our funding costs, it is likely to adversely impact the income we receive arising from our investments in securities as well as loans with similar maturities. In addition, we may also experience increased delinquencies in a low interest rate environment when such an environment is accompanied by high unemployment and recessionary conditions. The market value of a security with a fixed interest rate generally decreases when the prevailing interest rates rise, which may have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. In addition, we may incur costs (which, in turn, will impact our results) as we implement strategies to reduce future interest rate exposure. The market value of an obligation with a floating interest rate can be adversely affected when interest rates increase, due to a lag in the implementation of repricing terms or an inability to refinance at lower rates. Increases in interest rates may reduce gains or require us to record losses on sales of our loans or securities. In recent years, interest rates have been low by historical standards. However, there can be no assurance that such low rates will continue in the future. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate risk as a result of mismatches between assets and liabilities denominated in different currencies. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between currencies may negatively affect our earnings and the value of our assets and securities. We are also exposed to equity price risk in connection with our trading investments in equity securities. The performance of financial markets may cause changes in the value of our investment and trading portfolios. The volatility of world equity markets due to the continued economic uncertainty and sovereign debt crisis has had a particularly strong impact on the financial sector. Continued volatility may affect the value of our investments in entities in this sector and, depending on their fair value and future recovery expectations, could become a permanent 8 Table of Contents impairment which would be subject to write-offs against our results. To the extent any of these risks materialize, our net interest income or the market value of our assets and liabilities could be adversely affected. Market conditions have resulted, and could result, in material changes to the estimated fair values of our financial assets. Negative fair value adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. In the past five years, financial markets have been subject to significant stress resulting in steep falls in perceived or actual financial asset values, particularly due to volatility in global financial markets and the resulting widening of credit spreads. We have material exposures to securities and other investments that are recorded at fair value and are therefore exposed to potential negative fair value adjustments. Asset valuations in future periods, reflecting then-prevailing market conditions, may result in negative changes in the fair values of our financial assets and these may also translate into increased impairments. In addition, the value ultimately realized by us on disposal may be lower than the current fair value. Any of these factors could require us to record negative fair value adjustments, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or prospects. In addition, to the extent that fair values are determined using financial valuation models, such values may be inaccurate or subject to change, as the data used by such models may not be available or may become unavailable due to changes in market conditions, particularly for illiquid assets, and particularly in times of economic instability. In such circumstances, our valuation methodologies require us to make assumptions, judgments and estimates in order to establish fair value, and reliable assumptions are difficult to make and are inherently uncertain and valuation models are complex, making them inherently imperfect predictors of actual results. Any consequential impairments or write-downs could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. If we are unable to effectively control the level of non-performing or poor credit quality loans in the future, or if our allowance for impairment losses is insufficient to cover future loan losses, this could have a material adverse effect on us. Our exposure to individuals and small and medium-sized businesses could lead to higher levels of past due loans, allowances for loan losses and charge-offs. Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability of loans and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in a wide range of our businesses. Non-performing or low credit quality loans can negatively impact our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively control the level of the impaired loans in our total loan portfolio. In particular, the amount of our reported non-performing loans may increase in the future as a result of growth in our total loan portfolio, including as a result of loan portfolios that we may acquire in the future, or factors beyond our control, such as adverse changes in the credit quality of our borrowers and counterparties or a general deterioration in Mexican or global economic conditions, the impact of political events, events affecting certain industries or events affecting financial markets and global economies. A substantial number of our customers consist of individuals (approximately 38.5% of the value of the total gross loan portfolio as of December 31, 2012) and, to a lesser extent, SMEs (those with annual revenues of less than Ps.100,000,000 (U.S.$7,712,598)), which comprised approximately 9.3% of the value of the total gross loan portfolio as of December 31, 2012. As part of our business strategy, we are seeking to further increase lending and other services to individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises, or SMEs, which are more likely to be adversely affected by downturns in the Mexican economy than large corporations and high-income individuals who have greater resources. Consequently, in the future we may experience higher levels of non-performing loans, which could result in increases in our allowance for impairment losses, which in turn will affect our financial condition and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2012, non-performing loans were Ps.7,329 million and total charge-offs against our allowance for impairment losses were Ps.8,210 million. Non-performing loans related to individuals and SMEs represented 73.9% and 10.3%, respectively, of our total non-performing loans for the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to 59.1% and 8.7%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011. Charge-offs related to individual and SME loans represented 83.6% and 14.7%, respectively, of our total charge-offs for the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to 87.8% and 10.2%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011. There can be no assurance that the levels of non-performing loans and subsequent charge-offs will not be materially higher in the future. Part of our current growth strategy is also to increase volume in the credit card portfolio, at the same rate or a slightly higher rate than the market, which may increase the level of non-performing loans in our total loan portfolio. 9 Table of Contents In addition, the introduction of new products, such as residential mortgages with increasing payments and a fixed interest rate could lead to greater loan provisions. As of December 31, 2012, our mortgage loan portfolio totaled Ps.69,818 million, representing 19.7% of our gross loans and advances to customers (excluding repurchase agreements). If the economy and real estate market in Mexico experience a significant downturn, as it may due to the global financial and economic crisis, this could materially adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and financial conditions of our customers, which may in turn cause us to experience higher levels of past due loans, thereby resulting in higher allowance for impairment losses and subsequent charge-offs. This may materially and adversely affect our asset quality, results of operations and financial condition. Our current allowance for impairment losses may not be adequate to cover an increase in the amount of non-performing loans or any future deterioration in the overall credit quality of our total loan portfolio. Our allowance for impairment losses is based on our current assessment of and expectations concerning various factors affecting the quality of our loan portfolio. These factors include, among other things, our borrowers’ financial condition, repayment abilities and repayment intentions, the realizable value of any collateral, the prospects for support from any guarantor, government macroeconomic policies, interest rates and the legal and regulatory environment. As the recent global financial crisis has demonstrated, many of these factors are beyond our control. As a result, there is no precise method for predicting loan and credit losses, and we cannot assure you that our allowance for impairment losses will be sufficient to cover actual loan and credit losses. If our assessment of and expectations concerning the above mentioned factors differ from actual developments, if the quality of our total loan portfolio deteriorates, for any reason, including the increase in lending to individuals and small and medium enterprises, the volume increase in the credit card portfolio and the introduction of new products, or if the future actual losses exceed our estimates of incurred losses, we may be required to increase our allowance for impairment losses, which may adversely affect us. If we are unable to control or reduce the level of our non-performing or poor credit quality loans, this could have a material adverse effect on us. Despite our risk management policies, procedures and methods, we may nonetheless be exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks. In addition, failure to successfully implement and continue to improve our credit risk management system, which is affected by the quality and scope of information available in Mexico, could materially and adversely affect us. The management of risk is an integral part of our activities. We seek to monitor and manage our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, market, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, such techniques and strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that we fail to identify or anticipate. Some of our qualitative tools and metrics for managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to arrive at quantifications of our risk exposures. These qualitative tools and metrics may fail to predict future risk exposures. These risk exposures could, for example, arise from factors we did not anticipate or correctly evaluate in our statistical models. This would limit our ability to manage our risks. Our losses thus could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. In addition, our quantified modeling does not take all risks into account. Our more qualitative approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses. If existing or potential customers believe our risk management is inadequate, they could take their business elsewhere. This could harm our reputation as well as our revenues and profits. As a commercial bank, one of the main types of risks inherent in our business is credit risk. For example, an important feature of our credit risk management system is to employ an internal credit rating system to assess the particular risk profile of a customer. As this process involves detailed analyses of the customer or credit risk, taking into account both quantitative and qualitative factors, it is subject to human error. In exercising their judgment, our employees may not always be able to assign an accurate credit rating to a customer or credit risk, which may result in our exposure to credit risks higher than those indicated by our risk rating system. In addition, we have been trying to refine our credit policies and guidelines to address potential risks associated with particular industries or types of customers. However, we may not be able to timely detect these risks before they occur, or due to limited tools available to us, our employees may not be able to effectively implement them, which may increase our credit risk. Failure to effectively implement, consistently follow or continuously refine our credit risk management system may result in an increase in the level of non-performing loans and a higher risk exposure for us, which could have a material adverse effect on us. 10 Table of Contents In addition, the effectiveness of our credit risk management is affected by the quality and scope of information available in Mexico. In assessing customers’ creditworthiness, we rely largely on the credit information available from our own internal databases, the Mexican credit bureau (Buró de Crédito) and other sources. Due to limitations in the availability of information and the developing information infrastructure in Mexico, our assessment of credit risk associated with a particular customer may not be based on complete, accurate or reliable information. In addition, although we have been improving our credit scoring systems to better assess borrowers’ credit risk profiles, we cannot assure you that our credit scoring systems collect complete or accurate information reflecting the actual behavior of customers or that their credit risk can be assessed correctly. Without complete, accurate and reliable information, we have to rely on other publicly available resources and our internal resources, which may not be effective. As a result, our ability to effectively manage our credit risk and subsequently our loan loss allowances may be materially adversely affected. Our loan and investment portfolios are subject to risk of prepayment, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our fixed rate loan and investment portfolios are subject to prepayment risk, which results from the ability of a borrower or issuer to pay a debt obligation prior to maturity. Generally, in a declining interest rate environment, prepayment activity increases, which reduces the weighted average lives of our earning assets and could have a material adverse effect on us. We would also be required to amortize net premiums into income over a shorter period of time, thereby reducing the corresponding asset yield and net interest income. Prepayment risk also has a significant adverse impact on credit card and collateralized mortgage loans, since prepayments could shorten the weighted average life of these assets, which may result in a mismatch in our funding obligations and reinvestment at lower yields. Prepayment risk is inherent to our commercial activity and an increase in prepayments could have a material adverse effect on us. We may generate lower revenues from fee and commission based businesses. The fees and commissions that we earn from the different banking and other financial services that we provide represent a significant source of our revenues. Market downturns have led, and are likely to continue to lead, to a decline in the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers and, therefore, to a decline in our non-interest revenues. In addition, because the fees that we charge for managing our clients’ portfolios are in many cases based on the value or performance of those portfolios, a market downturn that reduces the value of our clients’ portfolios or increases the amount of withdrawals would reduce the revenues we receive from our asset management, private banking and custody businesses and adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, our customers may further significantly decrease their risk tolerance to non-deposit investments such as stocks, bonds and mutual funds, which would adversely affect our fee and commission income. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market performance by our mutual funds may result in increased withdrawals and reduced inflows, which would reduce the revenue we receive from our asset management business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates which, if inaccurate, could cause material misstatement of the results of our operations and financial position. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be based upon amounts which differ from those estimates. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. The accounting policies deemed critical to our results and financial position, based upon materiality and significant judgments and estimates, include fair value measurements, deferred tax assets, impairment of other financial assets, impairment losses on loans and receivables and provisions for off-balance sheet risk, goodwill and business combinations and provisions and contingent liabilities. The valuation of financial instruments measured at fair value can be subjective, in particular where models are used which include unobservable inputs. Given the uncertainty and subjectivity associated with valuing such instruments it is possible that the results of our operations and financial position could be materially misstated if the estimates and assumptions used prove to be inaccurate. 11 Table of Contents If the judgment, estimates and assumptions we use in preparing our consolidated financial statements are subsequently found to be incorrect, there could be a material effect on our results of operations and a corresponding effect on our funding requirements and capital ratios. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect us. We face substantial competition in all parts of our business, including in originating loans and in attracting deposits. The competition in originating loans comes principally from other domestic and foreign banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and other lenders and purchasers of loans. We anticipate that we will encounter greater competition as we expand our operations. In addition, certain of our competitors, such as Sociedades Financieras de Objeto Limitado, or Sofoles, and Sociedades Financieras de Objeto Múltiple, or Sofomes, are not licensed financial institutions and, as such, not subject to the same extensive banking regulation, including capitalization and reserve requirements. As a result, certain of our competitors may have advantages in conducting certain businesses and providing certain services and particularly, may be more aggressive in their loan origination activities. Our principal competitors are BBVA Bancomer, S.A., Institución de Banca Múltiple, Grupo Financiero BBVA Bancomer; Banco Nacional de México, S.A., Integrante del Grupo Financiero Banamex; Banco Mercantil del Norte, S.A., Institución de Banca Múltiple, Grupo Financiero Banorte; HSBC México, S.A., Institución de Banca Múltiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC; Banco Inbursa, S.A., Institución de Banca Múltiple, Grupo Financiero Inbursa; and Scotiabank Inverlat, S.A., Institución de Banca Múltiple, Grupo Financiero Scotiabank. For a number of years, foreign financial institutions have been permitted to establish subsidiary financial groups, banks, broker-dealers and other financial entities in Mexico. According to information published by the Mexican National Banking and Securities Commission (Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores, or CNBV), as of December 31, 2012, Mexico’s ten largest domestic banks, measured in terms of assets, held 85.1% of the total assets in the Mexican banking system. Six of these ten banks are foreign-owned. These foreign financial institutions are generally well-capitalized, and have substantial resources (such as personnel, technology and product development and organization); if any of them pursue the Mexican market aggressively, by establishing or expanding operations, we may be unable to compete with them. The CNBV continues, from time to time, to grant banking licenses, including licenses to niche banks, that are solely permitted to engage in limited activities. Newly licensed banks are likely to aggressively pursue market expansion, which may adversely affect our activities and results of operations. In addition, legal and regulatory reforms in the Mexican banking industry have also increased competition among banks and among other financial institutions. We believe that the Mexican government’s policies of adopting market-oriented reforms in the financial industry have brought greater competition. As financial sector reform continues, foreign financial institutions, some having greater resources than we do, have entered and may continue to enter the Mexican market either by themselves or in partnership with existing Mexican financial institutions and compete with us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with such domestic or foreign financial institutions. Increasing competition could require that we increase our rates offered on deposits or lower the rates we charge on loans, which could also have a material adverse effect on us, including our profitability. It may also negatively affect our business results and prospects by, among other things, limiting our ability to increase our customer base and expand our operations and increasing competition for investment opportunities. In addition, if our customer service levels were perceived by the market to be materially below those of our competitor financial institutions, we could lose existing and potential business. If we are not successful in retaining and strengthening customer relationships, we may lose market share, incur losses on some or all of our activities or fail to attract new deposits or retain existing deposits, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. 12 Table of Contents Our brokerage and asset management subsidiaries also face intense competition. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Competition.” We are exposed to risks faced by other financial institutions. We routinely transact with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual funds, hedge funds and other institutional clients. Defaults by, and even rumors or questions about the solvency of, certain financial institutions and the financial services industry generally have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by other institutions. Many of the routine transactions we enter into expose us to significant credit risk in the event of default by one of our significant counterparties. In 2012, the financial health of a number of European governments was shaken by the European sovereign debt crisis, contributing to volatility of the capital and credit markets, and the risk of contagion throughout and beyond the Eurozone remains, as a significant number of financial institutions throughout Europe have substantial exposures to sovereign debt issued by nations which are under considerable financial pressure. These liquidity concerns have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on interbank financial transactions in general. Should any of these nations default on their debt, or experience a significant widening of credit spreads, major financial institutions and banking systems throughout Europe could be destabilized. A default by a significant financial counterparty, or liquidity problems in the financial services industry generally, could have a material adverse effect on us. Liquidity and funding risks are inherent in our business and could have a material adverse effect on us. Liquidity risk is the risk that we either do not have available sufficient financial resources to meet our obligations as they fall due or can secure them only at excessive cost. This risk is inherent in any retail and commercial banking business and can be heightened by a number of enterprise-specific factors, including over-reliance on a particular source of funding, changes in credit ratings or market-wide phenomena such as market dislocation. While we implement liquidity management processes to seek to mitigate and control these risks, unforeseen systemic market factors in particular make it difficult to eliminate completely these risks. Adverse and continued constraints in the supply of liquidity, including inter-bank lending, has affected and may materially and adversely affect the cost of funding our business, and extreme liquidity constraints may affect our current operations as well as limit growth possibilities. Continued or worsening disruption and volatility in the global financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access capital and liquidity on financial terms acceptable to us. Our cost of obtaining funding is directly related to prevailing market interest rates and to our credit spreads. Increases in interest rates and our credit spreads can significantly increase the cost of our funding. Changes in our credit spreads are market-driven, and may be influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. Changes to interest rates and our credit spreads occur continuously and may be unpredictable and highly volatile. If wholesale markets financing ceases to become available, or becomes excessively expensive, we may be forced to raise the rates we pay on deposits, with a view to attracting more customers, and/or to sell assets, potentially at depressed prices. The persistence or worsening of these adverse market conditions or an increase in base interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access liquidity and cost of funding (whether directly or indirectly). We rely, and will continue to rely, primarily on customer deposits to fund lending activities. The ongoing availability of this type of funding is sensitive to a variety of factors outside our control, such as general economic conditions and the confidence of customer depositors in the economy, in general, and the financial services industry in particular, and the availability and extent of deposit guarantees, as well as competition between banks for deposits. Any of these factors could significantly increase the amount of customer deposit withdrawals in a short period of time, thereby reducing our ability to access customer deposit funding on appropriate terms, or at all, in the future. If these circumstances were to arise, this could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. We anticipate that our customers will continue, in the near future, to make short-term deposits (particularly demand deposits and short-term time deposits), and we intend to maintain our emphasis on the use of banking deposits as a source of funds. The short-term nature of this funding source could cause liquidity problems for us in 13 Table of Contents the future if deposits are not made in the volumes we expect or are not renewed. If a substantial number of our depositors withdraw their demand deposits or do not roll over their time deposits upon maturity, we may be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that in the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking system, we will be able to maintain levels of funding without incurring high funding costs, a reduction in the term of funding instruments or the liquidation of certain assets. If this were to happen, we could be materially adversely affected. Many Mexican banks have suffered severe liquidity problems from time to time. We have not suffered material liquidity problems since the 1995 to 1996 period, when we experienced a significant increase in the cost of funding as a result of the financial crisis in Mexico. During this period, we were able to obtain the required funding, but at a higher cost. While we have not suffered material liquidity problems in recent years, we cannot assure you that liquidity problems will not affect the Mexican banking system in the future or that liquidity constraints will not affect us in the future. While we expect to be able to refinance our liabilities, we cannot assure you that we will be able to repay our liabilities or refinance our liabilities on favorable terms or at all. The credit card industry is highly competitive and entails significant risks, including the possibility of over-indebtedness of customers, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The credit card industry in Mexico is dominated by institutions that may possess greater financial resources and broader coverage in this market than we do. There is no assurance that we will be able to effectively compete for and retain customers in this competitive industry or that we will be able to implement our experience in the Mexican market successfully. Our credit card business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the possibility of over-indebtedness of our customers, despite our focus on low-risk and medium- and high-income customers. We currently segment our credit card portfolio into ten groups based on a composite score comprised of a behavior score based on internal and external data and a credit capacity score based primarily on external data. We perform monthly validations of our scores to test their predictive capacity so that the methodologies can be adjusted, if necessary. We measure the loss rates for each of the ten groups over a one-year period and compare the average loss rate to our appetite for risk within the credit card portfolio. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 58% of our credit card portfolio was included in the top five groups, which together had an average loss rate of 4.5%, which we consider to be low risk. Credit card products are characterized by higher consumer default than other consumer credit products, and defaults are highly correlated with macroeconomic indicators that are beyond our control. From 2008 to 2010, our credit card portfolio decreased by Ps.22,832 million, or 48%, primarily due to write-offs, tightening of credit policies and a reduction in the origination of new credit cards, all of which were a response to a material deterioration in credit quality in our credit card portfolio. Part of our current growth strategy is to increase volume in the credit card portfolio, at the same or a slightly higher rate than the market, which may increase our exposure to risk in our loan portfolio. If Mexican economic growth slows or declines, or if we fail to effectively analyze the creditworthiness of our customers (including by targeting certain sectors), we may be faced with unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on us. One of our core strategies is to grow our operations and we may not be able to manage such growth effectively, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. We allocate management and planning resources to develop strategic plans for organic growth, and to identify possible acquisitions and disposals and areas for restructuring our businesses. We cannot provide assurance that we will, in all cases, be able to manage our growth effectively or deliver our strategic growth objectives. Challenges that may result from the strategic growth decisions include our ability to: · manage efficiently the operations and employees of expanding businesses; · maintain or grow our existing customer base; · assess the value, strengths and weaknesses of investment or acquisition candidates; 14 Table of Contents · finance strategic investments or acquisitions; · fully integrate strategic investments, or newly-established entities or acquisitions in line with our strategy; · align our current information technology systems adequately with those of an enlarged group; · apply our risk management policy effectively to an enlarged group; and · manage a growing number of entities without over-committing management or losing key personnel. Any failure to manage growth effectively, including relating to any or all of the above challenges associated with our growth plans, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. The value of the collateral securing our loans may not be sufficient, and we may be unable to realize the full value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio. The value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio may significantly fluctuate due to factors beyond our control, including macroeconomic factors affecting Mexico’s economy. The performance of the real estate market may affect us as real estate represents a significant portion of the collateral securing our residential mortgage loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2012, the loan-to-value ratio of our mortgage portfolio and the loan-to-value ratio for originations were 52% and 65% on average, respectively. We may also not have sufficiently recent information on the value of collateral, which may result in an inaccurate assessment for impairment losses of our loans secured by such collateral. If this were to occur, we may need to make additional provisions to cover actual impairment losses of our loans, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Credit, market and liquidity risk may have an adverse effect on our credit ratings and our cost of funds. Any downgrading in our credit rating would likely increase our cost of funding, require us to post additional collateral or take other actions under some of our derivative contracts and adversely affect our interest margins and results of operations. Credit ratings affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding. Rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings of our debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Any downgrade in our debt credit ratings would likely increase our borrowing costs and require us to post additional collateral or take other actions under some of our derivative contracts, and could limit our access to capital markets and adversely affect our commercial business. For example, a ratings downgrade could adversely affect our ability to sell or market certain of our products, engage in certain longer-term and derivatives transactions and retain our customers, particularly customers who need a minimum rating threshold in order to invest. In addition, under the terms of certain of our derivative contracts, we may be required to maintain a minimum credit rating or terminate such contracts. Any of these results of a ratings downgrade, in turn, could reduce our liquidity and have an adverse effect on us, including our operating results and financial condition. The long-term debt of Banco Santander, S.A., or Banco Santander Spain, is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies—Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service España, S.A., BBB by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and BBB+ by Fitch Ratings Ltd.—all of which have a negative outlook due to the difficult economic environment in Spain. All three agencies downgraded Banco Santander Spain’s rating in February 2012 together with that of the other main Spanish banks, due to the weaker-than-previously-anticipated macroeconomic and financial environment in Spain with dimming growth prospects in the near term, depressed real estate market activity and heightened turbulence in the capital markets. In addition, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services downgraded Banco Santander Spain’s rating by two notches in April 2012 together with that of 15 other Spanish banks following that rating agency’s decision to downgrade Spain’s sovereign debt rating by two notches. Moody’s Investors Service España, S.A. further downgraded Banco Santander Spain’s rating in May 2012, together with downgrades of 15 other Spanish banks and Santander UK plc, a United Kingdom-domiciled subsidiary of Banco Santander Spain. In June 2012, Fitch Ratings Ltd. cut the rating of Spanish sovereign debt three notches to BBB- with a negative outlook, and Moody’s followed shortly thereafter by downgrading Spanish sovereign debt three notches to Baa3, its lowest investment grade rating. Following its downgrade of Spanish sovereign debt, Fitch 15 Table of Contents Ratings Ltd. further downgraded Banco Santander Spain’s rating on June 11, 2012 from A to BBB+, with a negative outlook. Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Banco Santander Spain’s rating on June 25, 2012 from A3 to Baa2, with a negative outlook. On October 16, 2012, S&P further downgraded Banco Santander Spain’s rating from A- to BBB, with a negative outlook, following S&P’s additional downgrade of the Spanish sovereign debt rating. On June 13, 2012, as a result of its downgrade of Banco Santander Spain, Fitch Ratings Ltd. took various rating actions against Banco Santander Mexico, including downgrading its long-term debt rating for any issuances in the international capital markets from A- to BBB+ with a negative outlook while affirming its rating with respect to long-term issuances in the local Mexican market of AAA(mex) with a stable outlook. On June 28, 2012, as a result of its downgrade of Banco Santander Spain, Moody’s Investors Service took various rating actions against Banco Santander Mexico, including downgrading its standalone financial strength rating to C-, its long-term peso-denominated debt rating for any issuances in the international capital markets from A2 to A3 and its short-term peso-denominated debt rating for any international issuances to Prime-2 from Prime 1. However, Moody’s Investors Service’s long-term debt rating for issuances in the local Mexican market was maintained at AAA.mx with a stable outlook. On July 11, 2012, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services raised the local and foreign currency short-term debt ratings of Banco Santander Mexico for any issuances in the international capital markets from A-3 to A-2, which mirrored Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services’s decision to raise Mexico’s sovereign short-term foreign currency rating to A-2 on July 9, 2012. Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services’s rating of our long-term debt issued in the local Mexican market was maintained at mxAAA. S&P confirmed our ratings on October 16, 2012, despite their downgrade of Banco Santander Spain’s ratings on the same date, as described above, Our funding costs have not been affected by the recent downgrades of Spain’s sovereign debt, Banco Santander Spain’s debt and our related downgrades. For debt financing, we rely in part on local, peso-denominated issuances, and we continue to be rated mxAAA, Aaa.mx and AAA(mex) by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings Ltd., respectively, with respect to our local peso-denominated long-term debt, with equivalent ratings for our local peso-denominated short-term debt. Nor have we been required to post additional collateral or take other actions under any of our derivative contracts. However, the downgrades of Spain’s sovereign debt, Banco Santander Spain’s debt and our related downgrades could adversely affect our cost of funding related to any further issuances of debt in the international capital markets. While certain potential impacts are contractual and quantifiable, the full consequences of a credit ratings downgrade to a financial institution are inherently uncertain, as they depend upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related factors and assumptions, including market conditions at the time of any downgrade, whether any downgrade of a firm’s long-term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to its short-term credit ratings, and assumptions about the potential behaviors of various customers, investors and counterparties. However, we estimate that if the rating agencies were to downgrade our long-term senior debt ratings by one or two notches, it would increase our borrowing costs for debt issued in the international capital markets by approximately 10 to 20 basis points for our short-term debt. The effect on our long-term debt is much more uncertain due to the factors described above; however, we estimate that there would be an increase of approximately 30 to 50 basis points in our borrowing costs for long-term debt issued in the international capital markets in the event of a downgrade by one or two notches. In addition, we estimate that we would be required to post up to U.S.$38.3 million in additional collateral in respect of our derivative arrangements in the event of such a downgrade, based on our derivatives portfolio as of December 31, 2012. As a result, any such downgrade could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, if we were required to cancel our derivatives contracts with certain counterparties and were unable to replace such contracts, our market risk profile could be altered. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the financial markets, there can be no assurance that the rating agencies will maintain our current ratings or outlooks. Our failure to maintain favorable ratings and outlooks would likely increase our cost of funding and adversely affect our interest margins, which could have a material adverse effect on us. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to market, operational and other related risks associated with our derivative transactions that could have a material adverse effect on us. We enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes as well as for hedging purposes. We are subject to market and operational risks associated with these transactions, including basis risk (the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and the funding and/or hedge cost) and credit or default risk (the risk of insolvency or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations thereunder, including providing sufficient collateral). In addition, in connection with Mexican domestic derivative transactions, Mexican courts have had limited experience in dealing with issues related to derivative transactions, as most disputes have typically been resolved through negotiations among Mexican financial institutions. As a result, the outcomes of disputes regarding derivatives reaching the Mexican judicial system are not fully predictable. Market practices and documentation for derivative transactions in Mexico may differ from those in other countries. In addition, the execution and performance of these transactions depends on our ability to develop adequate control and administration systems and to hire and retain qualified personnel. Moreover, our ability to adequately monitor, analyze and report derivative transactions continues to depend, to a great extent, on our information technology systems. This factor further increases the risks associated with these transactions and could have a material adverse effect on us. Portions of our loan portfolio are subject to risks relating to force majeure events and any such event could materially adversely affect our operating results. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by force majeure events, such as natural disasters, particularly in locations where a significant portion of our loan portfolio is composed of real estate loans. Natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods may cause widespread damage which could impair the asset quality of our loan portfolio and could have an adverse impact on the economy of the affected region. The retail banking market is exposed to macroeconomic shocks that may negatively impact household income, and a downturn in the economy could result in increased loan losses. One of our main strategies is to focus on the retail banking sector and to grow our retail loan portfolio. The recoverability of retail loans in particular and our ability to increase the amount of loans outstanding, and our results of operations and financial condition in general, may become increasingly vulnerable to macroeconomic shocks that could negatively impact the household income of our retail customers and result in increased loan losses that could have a material adverse effect on us. Although GDP growth in recent years has been steady, the Mexican economy has historically experienced cycles of growth followed by slowdowns. We can provide no assurance that current GDP growth rates will continue. Furthermore, because the penetration of bank lending products in the Mexican retail sector historically has been low, there is little basis on which to evaluate how the retail sector will perform in the event of an economic crisis, such as a recession or a significant devaluation, among others. Consequently, our historical loan loss experience may not be indicative of the performance of our loan portfolio in the future. Our ability to maintain our competitive position depends, in part, on the success of new products and services we offer our clients and our ability to continue offering products and services from third parties, and we may not be able to manage various risks we face as we expand our range of products and services that could have a material adverse effect on us. The success of our operations and our profitability depends, in part, on the success of new products and services we offer our clients and our ability to continue offering products and services from third parties. However, we cannot guarantee that our new products, services and campaigns—such as Autocompara (a program that allows potential clients to compare automobile insurance quotes from nine insurance companies in Mexico), Hipoteca Light (a residential mortgage product that has increasing payments over time and a fixed interest rate), Banca Móvil (a program that allows banking operations to be carried out by means of cell phones and other mobile devices) and Hipoteca Inteligente (the first variable interest rate mortgage product in Mexico, with an interest rate cap of 12%)—will be responsive to client demands or successful once they are offered to our clients, or that they will be successful 17 Table of Contents in the future. For example, in the second half of 2011 we engaged in certain cross-selling campaigns (preapproving the existing customer base with less stringent credit policies for installment loan offers) that resulted in increased non-performing loans in the fourth quarter of 2012. As a result, we decided to tighten our credit policies for the cross-selling campaign and reduce volume of the related loans. In addition, our clients’ needs or desires may change over time, and such changes may render our products, services and campaigns obsolete, outdated or unattractive and we may not be able to develop new products that meet our clients’ changing needs. If we cannot respond in a timely fashion to the changing needs of our clients, we may lose clients, which could in turn materially and adversely affect us. As we expand the range of our products and services, some of which may be at an early stage of development in the Mexican market, we will be exposed to new and potentially increasingly complex risks and development expenses, with respect to which our experience and the experience of our partners may not be helpful. Our employees and our risk management systems may not be adequate to handle such risks. In addition, the cost of developing products that are not launched is likely to affect our results of operations. Any or all of these factors, individually or collectively, could have a material adverse effect on us. Any failure to effectively improve or upgrade our information technology infrastructure and management information systems in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to upgrade our information technology on a timely and cost-effective basis. We must continually make significant investments and improvements in our information technology infrastructure in order to remain competitive. For 2013, 26% of our capital expenditures budget for information technology is designated for information technology infrastructure in order to decrease technological risk. We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to maintain the level of capital expenditures necessary to support the improvement or upgrading of our information technology infrastructure. Any failure to effectively improve or upgrade our information technology infrastructure and management information systems in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to detect money laundering and other illegal or improper activities fully or on a timely basis, which could expose us to additional liability and could have a material adverse effect on us. We are required to comply with applicable anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and other laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations require us, among other things, to adopt and enforce “know-your-customer” policies and procedures and to report suspicious and large transactions to the applicable regulatory authorities. These laws and regulations have become increasingly complex and detailed, require improved systems and sophisticated monitoring and compliance personnel and have become the subject of enhanced government supervision. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Supervision and Regulation—Banking Regulation—Money Laundering Regulations.” While we have adopted policies and procedures aimed at detecting and preventing the use of our banking network for money laundering and related activities, such policies and procedures have in some cases only been recently adopted and may not completely eliminate instances where we may be used by other parties to engage in money laundering and other illegal or improper activities. To the extent we fail to fully comply with applicable laws and regulations, the relevant government agencies to which we report have the power and authority to impose fines and other penalties on us, including the revocation of licenses. In addition, our business and reputation could suffer if customers use our banking network for money laundering or illegal or improper purposes. In addition, while we review our relevant counterparties’ internal policies and procedures with respect to such matters, we, to a large degree, rely upon our relevant counterparties to maintain and properly apply their own appropriate anti-money laundering procedures. Such measures, procedures and compliance may not be completely effective in preventing third parties from using our (and our relevant counterparties) as a conduit for money laundering (including illegal cash operations) without our (and our relevant counterparties’) knowledge. If we are associated with, or even accused of being associated with, or become a party to, money laundering, then our reputation could suffer and/or we could become subject to fines, sanctions and/or legal enforcement (including being added to any “black lists” that would prohibit certain parties from engaging in transactions with us), any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. 18 Table of Contents We are a holding company and depend upon dividends and other funds from subsidiaries to fund our operations and, to the extent we decide to do so, pay dividends. We are a holding company and our operations are conducted through our financial services subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to fund our limited operations and, to the extent we decide to do so, pay dividends, primarily depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate earnings and to pay dividends to us. Pursuant to the Mexican Capitalization Requirements, Banco Santander Mexico, our commercial bank subsidiary, may be restricted from paying dividends to us if it does not meet its required regulatory capital ratios, does not have sufficient retained earnings or does not maintain legal reserves at required levels. Payment of dividends, distributions and advances by our subsidiaries will be contingent upon our subsidiaries’ earnings and business considerations and is or may be limited by legal, regulatory and contractual restrictions. Additionally, our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries as an equity holder of such subsidiaries, upon their liquidation or reorganization, will be effectively subordinated to the claims of our subsidiaries’ creditors, including trade creditors. For additional information regarding our dividend policy, see “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Dividends and Dividend Policy.” Operational risks, including risks relating to data collection, processing and storage systems are inherent in our business. Our businesses depend on the ability to process a large number of transactions efficiently and accurately, and on our ability to rely on our digital technologies, computer and email services, software and networks, as well as on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. The proper functioning of financial control, accounting or other data collection and processing systems is critical to our businesses and to our ability to compete effectively. Losses can result from inadequate personnel, inadequate or failed internal control processes and systems, or from external events that interrupt normal business operations. We also face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures prove to be inadequate or are circumvented. Although we work with our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities and prevent against cyber attacks, we routinely exchange personal, confidential and proprietary information by electronic means, and we may be the target of attempted cyber attacks. If we cannot maintain an effective data collection, management and processing system, we may be materially and adversely affected. We take protective measures and continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption, but our systems, software and networks nevertheless may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. An interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information sent to or received from a client, vendor, service provider, counterparty or third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer material losses from operational risk in the future, including relating to cyber attacks or other such security breaches. Further, as cyber attacks continue to evolve, we may incur significant costs in our attempt to modify or enhance our protective measures or investigate or remediate any vulnerability. We manage and hold confidential personal information of customers in the conduct of our banking operations. Although we have procedures and controls to safeguard personal information in our possession, unauthorized disclosures could subject us to legal actions and administrative sanctions as well as damages that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our businesses are exposed to risk from potential non-compliance with policies, employee misconduct or negligence and fraud, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. In recent years, a number of multinational financial institutions have suffered material losses due to the actions of ‘rogue traders’ or other employees. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not always be effective. We are required to report every event related to information security issues, such as hacking or hacking attempts, events where customer information may be compromised, unauthorized access and other security breaches, to the CNBV. As of the date of this report, we have not experienced information security problems and we have not had to report any such events to the CNBV. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information, including data related to customer requests, to be lost or to be delivered to our clients with delays 19 Table of Contents or errors, which could reduce demand for our services and products and could materially and adversely affect us. Internet banking, ATMs and branches are the main distribution channels that are subject to this risk in Mexico. We rely on recruiting, retaining and developing appropriate senior management and skilled personnel. Our continued success depends in part on the continued service of key members of our management team. The ability to continue to attract, train, motivate and retain highly qualified professionals is a key element of our strategy. The successful implementation of our growth strategy depends on the availability of skilled management, both at our head office and at each of our business units. If we or one of our business units or other functions fails to staff its operations appropriately or loses one or more of its key senior executives and fails to replace them in a satisfactory and timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations, including control and operational risks, may be adversely affected. In addition, the financial industry has and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees. If we fail or are unable to attract and appropriately train, motivate and retain qualified professionals, our business may also be adversely affected. Damage to our reputation could cause harm to our business prospects. Maintaining a positive reputation is critical to our attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. Damage to our reputation can therefore cause significant harm to its business and prospects. Harm to our reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failure to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unethical behavior, and the activities of customers and counterparties. Further, negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may result in harm to our prospects. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members of, or individuals in, the industry can also affect our reputation. For example, the role played by financial services firms in the financial crisis and the seeming shift toward increasing regulatory supervision and enforcement has caused public perception of us and others in the financial services industry to decline. We could suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. Management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. The failure to adequately address, or the perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with us, or give rise to litigation or enforcement actions against us. Therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause material harm to us. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters and other regulatory bodies periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. We rely on third parties for important products and services. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as loan and deposit servicing systems, internet connections and network access. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to customers and otherwise to conduct business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delays and expense. 20 Table of Contents We engage in transactions with our subsidiaries or affiliates that others may not consider to be on an arm’s-length basis. We and our subsidiaries and affiliates have entered into a number of services agreements pursuant to which we render services, such as administrative, accounting, finance, treasury, legal services and others. In 2012, the aggregate amount of our expenses related to the service agreements we have with our subsidiaries and affiliates was Ps.2,429 million, or 13.2% of our administrative expenses, and we had an insignificant amount of income related to such agreements. In addition, we have entered into services agreements with certain affiliates to allow these companies to offer their products and services within our branch network or that assist with our activities in consideration for certain fees. Mexican law applicable to public companies and financial groups and institutions, as well as our bylaws, provide for several procedures designed to ensure that the transactions entered into with or among our financial subsidiaries do not deviate from prevailing market conditions for those types of transactions, including the requirement that our Board of Directors approve such transactions. We are likely to continue to engage in transactions with our subsidiaries or affiliates (including our controlling shareholder). While the CNBV has not disagreed with our determinations that the terms of these transactions are “substantially on market conditions” in the past, we can provide no assurances that the CNBV will agree with any of our future determinations. In addition, future conflicts of interests between us and any of our subsidiaries or affiliates, or among our subsidiaries and affiliates, may arise, which conflicts are not required to be and may not be resolved in our favor. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions.” The growth of our loan portfolio may expose us to increased loan losses. From December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011, gross loans and advances to customers (excluding repurchase agreements) grew by 35.9% to Ps.321,875 (U.S.$24,825), while our installment loans to individuals grew by 23.5% to Ps.49,573 (U.S.$3,823). From December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012, our gross loans and advances to customers (excluding repurchase agreements) grew by 10.3% to Ps.355,089 (U.S.$27,387), while our installment loans to individuals grew by 23.7%. The further expansion of our loan portfolio (particularly in the consumer, small- and mid-sized companies and real estate segments) can be expected to expose us to a higher level of loan losses and require us to establish higher levels of allowance for impairment losses. Our loan portfolio may not continue to grow at the same rate. An economic turmoil may lead to a contraction in our loan portfolio. There can be no assurance that our loan portfolio will continue to grow at similar rates to the historical growth rate described elsewhere in this annual report. A reversal of the rate of growth of the Mexican economy, a slowdown in the growth of customer demand, an increase in market competition or changes in governmental regulations, could adversely affect the rate of growth of our loan portfolio and our risk index and, accordingly, increase our required allowances for loan losses. An economic turmoil could materially adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and financial condition of our customers as well as lead to a general decline in consumer spending and a rise in unemployment. All this could in turn lead to decreased demand for borrowings in general. Our controlling shareholder has a great deal of influence over our business and its interests could conflict with yours. Banco Santander Spain, our controlling shareholder, currently beneficially owns, directly and indirectly, 74.97% of our common stock (including Series B and Series F shares). Due to its share ownership, our controlling shareholder has the ability to control us and our subsidiaries, including the ability to: · elect the majority of the directors and exercise control over our company and subsidiaries; · cause the appointment of our principal officers; · declare the payment of any dividends; 21 Table of Contents · agree to sell or otherwise transfer its controlling stake in us; and · determine the outcome of substantially all actions requiring shareholder approval, including amendments of our bylaws, transactions with related parties, corporate reorganizations, acquisitions and disposals of assets and issuance of additional equity securities, if any. We operate as a stand-alone subsidiary within the Santander Group. Our principal shareholders have no liability for our banking operations, except for the amount of their respective holdings of our capital stock. The interests of Banco Santander Spain may differ from our interests or those of our other shareholders and the concentration of control in Banco Santander Spain will limit other shareholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. As a result, we may take action that our other shareholders do not view as beneficial. Our recent and future acquisitions may not be successful and may be disruptive to our business. We have acquired controlling interests in various companies and have engaged in other strategic partnershiPs. From time to time, we evaluate acquisition opportunities that we believe offer additional value to our shareholders and are consistent with our business strategy. These acquisitions may be acquisitions of assets or of existing operations, such as the GE Capital mortgage business that we acquired in 2011. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to acquire promising targets on favorable terms or at all. We base our assessment of potential acquisitions on limited and potentially inexact information and on assumptions with respect to operations, profitability and other matters that may prove to be incorrect. Our ability to benefit from any such acquisitions will depend in part on our successful integration of those businesses. We can give no assurances that our expectations with regards to integration and synergies will materialize. The integration of acquired businesses entails significant risks, including: · unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations and systems; · inability to modify accounting standards rapidly; · problems assimilating or retaining the employees of acquired businesses; · challenges retaining customers of acquired businesses; · unexpected liabilities or contingencies relating to the acquired businesses, including legal claims; · the possibility that management may be distracted from day-to-day business concerns by integration activities and related problem-solving; and · the possibility of regulatory restrictions that prevent us from achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition. In addition, an acquisition could result in the loss of key employees and inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Moreover, the success of the acquisition will at least in part be subject to a number of political, economic and other factors that are beyond our control. Any or all of these factors, individually or collectively, could have a material adverse effect on us. We recently began preparing financial statements in accordance with IFRS, and these financial statements are not directly comparable to the financial statements that we have historically prepared and that we will continue to prepare in accordance with Mexican Banking GAAP. In addition, some of the financial data presented in this annual report are not easily comparable from period to period. We recently began preparing our financial statements in accordance with IFRS. As a result, our financial data as of and for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 presented in this annual report on Form 20-F has been derived from our audited financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. However, prior to the year ended December 31, 2010, we prepared our financial statements solely in accordance with Mexican Banking GAAP. For regulatory purposes, including Mexican Central Bank regulations and CNBV reporting requirements, we currently prepare and will continue to prepare and make available to our shareholders statutory financial statements in accordance with Mexican Banking GAAP. Also, we will continue to report to Mexican regulators under Mexican 22 Table of Contents Banking GAAP. Because IFRS differs in certain significant respects from Mexican Banking GAAP, any Mexican Banking GAAP financial information presented in this annual report on Form 20-F for any period is not directly comparable to our IFRS financial data. For example, in the section entitled “B. Business Overview—Selected Statistical Information,” we present certain financial information in IFRS as of and for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 and in Mexican Banking GAAP as of and for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009. The lack of comparability of our IFRS and Mexican Banking GAAP financial data from period to period may make it difficult to gain a full and accurate understanding of our operations and financial condition. We are exposed to risk of loss from legal and regulatory proceedings. We face various issues that may give rise to risk of loss from legal and regulatory proceedings, including tax litigation. These issues, including appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, and legal and regulatory requirements, could increase the amount of damages asserted against us or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. The current regulatory environment, which suggests an increased supervisory focus on enforcement, combined with uncertainty about the evolution of the regulatory regime, may lead to material operational and compliance costs. We are from time to time subject to certain claims and parties to certain legal proceedings incidental to the normal course of our business, including in connection with our lending activities, relationships with our employees and other commercial or tax matters. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal matters, particularly where the claimants seek very large or indeterminate damages, or where the cases present novel legal theories, involve a large number of parties or are in the early stages of discovery, we cannot state with confidence what the eventual outcome of these pending matters will be or what the eventual loss, fines or penalties related to each pending matter may be. We believe that we have made adequate provisions related to the costs anticipated to be incurred in connection with these various claims and legal proceedings. As of December 31, 2012, we have set aside Ps.1,354 million (U.S.$104.4 million) as provisions for these legal actions (including tax-related litigation). See note 23.e to our audited financial statements. However, the amount of these provisions is substantially less than the total amount of the claims asserted against us and in light of the uncertainties involved in such claims and proceedings, there is no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not significantly exceed the provisions currently accrued by us. As a result, the outcome of a particular matter may be material to our operating results for a particular period, depending upon, among other factors, the size of the loss or liability imposed and our level of income for that period. Risks Relating to Mexico Adverse economic conditions in Mexico could have a negative effect on us. We are a holding company for Mexican financial institutions, and substantially all of our operations and assets are in Mexico and are dependent upon the performance of the Mexican economy. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be affected by the general condition of the Mexican economy, the devaluation of the peso as compared to the dollar, price instability, inflation or deflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation, social instability and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting Mexico, over which we have no control. The economy of Mexico has experienced significant volatility in recent decades, characterized, in some cases, by slow or regressive growth and contraction, declining investment and hyperinflation. This volatility has resulted in fluctuations in the levels of deposits and in the relative economic strength of various segments of the economy to which we lend. A substantial amount of our loans are to borrowers doing business in Mexico. Accordingly, the recoverability of these loans in particular, and our ability to increase the amount of loans outstanding and our results of operations and financial condition in general, are dependent to a significant extent on the level of economic activity in Mexico. Our results of operations and financial condition could be affected by changes in economic or other policies of the Mexican government, which has exercised and continues to exercise substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector, or other political or economic developments in Mexico. Negative and fluctuating economic conditions, such as a changing interest rate environment, impact our profitability by causing lending margins to decrease and leading to decreased demand for higher margin products and services. Negative and fluctuating economic conditions in Mexico could also result in government defaults on public debt. This could affect us in two ways: directly, through portfolio losses, and indirectly, through instabilities 23 Table of Contents that a default in public debt could cause to the banking system as a whole, particularly since commercial banks’ exposure to government debt is high in Mexico. No assurance can be given that our growth, asset quality and profitability will not be affected by volatile macroeconomic conditions. According to the Mexican National Institute of Statistics and Geography (Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía, or INEGI), and the Mexican Central Bank, in 2008, the Mexican gross domestic product, or GDP, grew by approximately 1.2% and inflation was 6.5%. Mexico was in a recession for five consecutive quarters from the fourth quarter of 2008 until the fourth quarter of 2009. In 2009, GDP decreased by approximately 6.2% and inflation reached 3.6%. In 2010, GDP was 5.5% and inflation was 4.4%. In 2011, GDP was 3.9% and inflation was 3.8%. In 2012, GDP increased 3.9% and inflation reached 3.6%. Mexico also has, and is expected to continue to have, volatility in exchange and interest rates. The annualized interest rates on 28-day Mexican Treasury bills (Certificados de la Tesorería de la Federación, or Cetes) averaged approximately 7.7%, 5.4%, 4.4%, 4.2% and 4.2% for 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Relative to the U.S. dollar, the peso depreciated by 26.7% in 2008, appreciated by 5.5% in 2009, appreciated by 5.5% in 2010, depreciated by 12.9% in 2011 and appreciated by 6.9% in 2012, all in nominal terms. The peso continues to be affected by uncertainty and volatility in the global markets. Our business may be significantly affected by the general condition of the Mexican economy, by the rate of inflation or deflation in Mexico, interest rates in Mexico and exchange rates for the Mexican peso or by changes in oil prices. Decreases in the growth rate of the Mexican economy, periods of negative growth and/or increases in inflation or interest rates may result in lower demand for our services and products, lower real pricing of our services and products or a shift to lower margin services and products. Because a large percentage of our costs and expenses are fixed, we may not be able to reduce costs and expenses upon the occurrence of any of these events, and our profit margins may suffer as a result. The volatility in peso exchange rates and interest rates in Mexico could have a material adverse effect on us. We are exposed to currency risk any time we hold an open position in a currency other than pesos and to interest rate risk when we have an interest rate repricing gap or carry interest-earning securities having fixed real or nominal interest rates. Peso exchange rates and interest rates in Mexico have been subject to significant fluctuations in recent years. Because of the historical volatility in peso exchange rates and interest rates in Mexico, the risks associated with such positions may be greater than in certain other countries. Our foreign currency liabilities are subject to regulation by the Mexican Central Bank, which imposes liquidity requirements in matching currencies, depending upon the maturities of such liabilities. As of December 31, 2012, the value at risk, or VaR, associated with our financial instruments in the trading book sensitive to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates was U.S.$5.13 million (Ps.65.99 million) and U.S.$0.80 million (Ps.10.24 million), respectively. Although we follow various risk management procedures in connection with our trading and treasury activities and are subject to regulations that seek to avoid important mismatches, there can be no assurance that we will not experience losses with respect to these positions in the future, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our results of operations. Severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may have an adverse effect on us by, for example, increasing in peso terms the amount of our foreign currency-denominated liabilities and the rate of default among our borrowers or affecting our results of operations when measured in U.S. dollar terms. In addition, severe devaluations may result, as in the past, in the implementation of exchange controls that may impact our ability to convert pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer currencies outside of Mexico, which may have an impact on our business and results of operations. As a result of the negative economic conditions in the United States and in other parts of the world, local and international markets have experienced high volatility, which has contributed to the devaluation of the peso by 26.7% in 2008. Although the peso increased in value relative to the U.S. dollar by 5.5% and 5.5% in 2009 and 2010, respectively, it depreciated in 2011 by 12.9%, closing at 13.95 pesos per U.S. dollar at the end of December 2011. As of December 31, 2012, the peso had appreciated to 12.97 pesos per U.S. dollar compared to the exchange rate at the end of December 2011. The peso continues to be affected by uncertainty and volatility in the global markets. The Mexican government has consistently implemented a series of measures to limit the volatility of the peso, varying from auctioning U.S. dollars to intervening in interest rates and regulating hedges of foreign currency-denominated liabilities of Mexican banks. However, we cannot assure you that such measures will be effective or maintained or how such measures will impact the Mexican economy. 24 Table of Contents Severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may also result in government intervention, as has occurred in other countries, or disruption of international foreign exchange markets. While the Mexican government does not currently restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer other currencies outside of Mexico, the Mexican government has taken such measures in the past and could institute restrictive exchange control policies in the future. Accordingly, fluctuations in the value of the peso against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on us. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the peso and the U.S. dollar, particularly depreciations in the value of the peso, may adversely affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of the peso price of the Series B shares on the Mexican Stock Exchange (Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, S.A.B. de C.V.). Such peso depreciations also will likely affect our revenues and earnings when measured in U.S. dollar terms and the market price of the ADSs. Exchange rate fluctuations would also affect the U.S. dollar equivalent value of any peso cash dividends and other distributions that we pay in pesos in respect of the Series B shares. Future Mexican government restrictions on interest rates could have a material adverse effect on us. In Mexico, the Law for the Protection and Defense of Financial Services Users (Ley de Protección y Defensa al Usuario de Servicios Financieros) does not impose any limit on the interest rate, subject to certain exceptions, that a bank may charge. However, the possibility of imposing such limits has been and continues to be debated by the Mexican Congress, Mexican regulators and different borrowers’ groups on a conceptual level. Although the Mexican government could impose limitations or additional informational requirements regarding such interest rates in the future, as of the date of this annual report on Form 20-F, the Mexican Congress and Mexican regulators have not yet proposed any specific limit to the interest rates we may charge. A portion of our revenues and operating cash flow is generated by the interest rates we charge to our customers, and any such limitations or additional informational requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. Political events in Mexico could have a material adverse effect on us. The Mexican government exercises significant influence over many aspects of the Mexican economy. Our revenues are subject to risk of loss from unfavorable political and diplomatic developments, social instability, and changes in governmental policies, including expropriation, nationalization, international ownership legislation, interest-rate caps and tax policies. As a result, the actions of the Mexican government concerning the economy and regulating certain industries, including the financial services sector, could have a significant effect on Mexican private sector entities, including us, and on market conditions, prices and returns on Mexican securities, including our securities. Presidential and federal congressional elections in Mexico were held in July 2012. The candidate from the Partido Revolucionario Institucional, or PRI, Enrique Peña Nieto, took office in December 2012. In his economic platform, Peña Nieto proposed structural reforms such as labor, energy and fiscal reforms in order to promote economic growth. Both labor and education reforms have already been approved by the Mexican Congress. Although a telecommunications reform package has been sent to the Mexican Senate, its approval, as well as fiscal and energy reforms, will require extensive negotiations between the political parties in the Mexican Congress. We cannot predict whether changes in Mexican governmental and economic policy will result from the change in administration. Any such changes could adversely affect economic conditions in Mexico or the sector in which we operate and therefore could have an adverse effect on us. We cannot provide any assurance that future political developments in Mexico, over which we have no control, will not have an unfavorable impact on our financial position or results of operations. In particular, the current government or the next government may implement significant changes in laws, public policies and/or regulations that could affect Mexico’s political and economic situation, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Developments in other countries may affect us, including the prices for our securities. Financial and securities markets in Mexico are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in other countries in Latin America and beyond. Negative developments in the economy or securities 25 Table of Contents markets in one country, particularly in an emerging market, may have a negative impact on other emerging market economies. These developments may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Although economic conditions in other countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors’ reactions to adverse developments in other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers, including us. For example, during 2007 and 2008, prices of both Mexican debt and equity securities decreased substantially as a result of the global financial crisis. According to Bloomberg, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell by 39% from its average level in July 2007 to its January 2009 average level, while Mexico’s Stock Exchange Prices and Quotations Index (Índice de Precios y Cotizaciones, or IPC) fell by 36% in the same period. In 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, the Dow Jones Industrial Average increased by approximately 19%, 11%, 6% and 8%, respectively, while Mexico’s Stock Exchange Prices and Quotations Index increased by 44% and 20% in 2009 and 2010, respectively, fell by approximately 4% in 2011, and increased by approximately 18% in 2012. In addition, in recent years economic conditions in Mexico have become increasingly correlated to economic conditions in the United States as a result of the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA, and increased economic activity between the two countries, which was highlighted during the recent economic crisis affecting the United States. The Mexican economy continues to be influenced by the U.S. economy, and therefore, the deterioration of the United States’ economy, the termination of NAFTA or other related events, or delays in the recovery of the U.S. economy may impact the economy of Mexico. In 2009, the gross domestic product of the United States contracted by 3.5% while Mexican gross domestic product fell by 6.2%. This recession caused unemployment to increase from an average of 5.8% in 2008 to an average of 9.3% in 2009 in the United States and from 4.3% in September 2008 to 6.4% in September 2009 in Mexico. This sudden change in economic conditions reduced credit demand, caused a 32.8% depreciation of the peso from September 2008 to March 2009 and triggered a monetary policy response by the Mexican Central Bank that resulted in lower interest rates, which dropped to 4.5% in December 2009 from its December 2008 level of 8.0%. These changes in macroeconomic conditions in Mexico did not have a material impact on our business or operations. However, we cannot assure you that any developments in the United States or elsewhere will not materially and adversely affect us in the future. During 2011 and 2012, the developments in the global economy, and particularly in Europe, have increased the risk premiums in global credit markets, which in turn have generated volatility in the Mexican financial markets. Given the transitory nature of such volatility, due to several measures taken by the European authorities, the Mexican economy has not been materially affected by it. In turn, these developments in Europe have not had a material impact on us. However, if the risks associated with the developments in Europe increase, these developments could have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot assure you that the events in the Europe or elsewhere will not materially and adversely affect us in the future. As a wholly-owned subsidiary of our controlling shareholder, Banco Santander Spain, significant aspects of our strategy, infrastructure and capital funding are dependent on our controlling shareholder. Although our controlling shareholder has a significant presence in various markets around the world, its results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally in Europe, Latin America and the United States. Accordingly, a significant decline in general economic conditions in Europe, Latin America or the United States, whether caused by recession, inflation, unemployment, changes in securities markets, acts of terrorism, or other occurrences could impact our controlling shareholder, and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to make significant contributions to the Mexican Institute for the Protection of Bank Savings (Instituto para la Protección al Ahorro Bancario, or IPAB). IPAB manages the bank savings protection system and the financial support granted to banks in Mexico. Under Mexican law, banks are required to make monthly contributions to IPAB to support its operations that are equal to 1/12 of 0.004% (the annual rate) multiplied by the average of certain liabilities minus the average of certain assets. Mexican authorities impose regular assessments on banking institutions covered by IPAB for funding. We contributed to IPAB Ps.1,146 million in 2009, Ps.982 million in 2010, Ps.1,228 million in 2011 and Ps.1,342 million in 2012. In the event that IPAB’s reserves are insufficient to manage the Mexican bank savings protection system and provide the necessary financial support required by troubled banking institutions, IPAB maintains the right to require extraordinary contributions to all banking institution participants in the system, which we may be required to make. Although we have not been required to make extraordinary contributions to the IPAB in the past, we may be 26 Table of Contents required to make extraordinary contributions in the future. Such extraordinary contributions would increase our expenses and could have a material adverse effect on us. Under the Statutory Responsibility Agreement entered into with our financial services subsidiaries pursuant to the Mexican Financial Groups Law (Ley para Regular las Agrupaciones Financieras), we are responsible secondarily and without limitation for performance of the obligations incurred by our subsidiaries, and Series F shares or Series B shares of Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico may be required to be posted as collateral to IPAB to secure liabilities of Banco Santander Mexico to IPAB in the event Banco Santander Mexico suffers losses that are covered by IPAB. Under the Statutory Responsibility Agreement entered into with our financial services subsidiaries pursuant to the Mexican Financial Groups Law, we are responsible secondarily and without limitation for the performance of the obligations incurred by our subsidiaries as a result of the authorized activities of such subsidiaries, and we are fully responsible for certain losses of our subsidiaries, up to the total amount of our assets. For such purposes, a subsidiary is deemed to have losses if (i) its shareholders’ equity represents an amount that is less than the amount the subsidiary is required to have as minimum paid-in capital under applicable law, (ii) its capital and reserves are less than the subsidiary is required to maintain under applicable law, or (iii) in the judgment of the regulatory commission supervising the subsidiary’s activities, the subsidiary is insolvent and cannot fulfill its obligations. If Banco Santander Mexico is deemed to have losses, it will not be allowed to pay any dividends or transfer any monetary benefit to us as a shareholder, from the date on which the IPAB determines Banco Santander Mexico’s losses up to the date on which we pay such losses. Under the Statutory Responsibility Agreement and the Mexican Financial Groups Law, if IPAB were to determine that Banco Santander Mexico has suffered losses which are covered by IPAB, Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico would be required, within 15 days from the date of such determination, to (i) create an adequate reserve covering such losses and (ii) post collateral to secure performance of Banco Santander Mexico’s obligations to IPAB to repay funds advanced by IPAB to Banco Santander Mexico to cover such losses. Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico would be required to repay IPAB within sixty days from the final determination by IPAB of its losses relating to Banco Santander Mexico. Pursuant to the Mexican Financial Groups Law, our shares and the shares of our subsidiaries would be required to be posted as collateral to secure the payment of Banco Santander Mexico’s losses in favor of IPAB. Pursuant to Article 28 Bis of the Mexican Financial Groups Law, our shareholders, by virtue of their holding of our shares, accept that their shares could be posted as a collateral in favor of IPAB and that such shares will be transferred to IPAB, if we are unable to pay for any amounts due to IPAB as a result of Banco Santander Mexico’s losses. Although Mexican law is unclear on this point, it is possible that the obligation to provide collateral to IPAB would extend to all our Series B shares if Series F shares held by Banco Santander Spain were insufficient. If such losses are not timely repaid by Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico to IPAB, then IPAB would be entitled to immediately foreclose on the posted collateral, including, if applicable, any Series F shares posted as collateral by our Parent. As a result, IPAB would acquire a participation in Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico or, if such losses were significant, IPAB could assume control of Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico. If IPAB were to assume ownership of our Series F shares or Series B shares, the value and liquidity of our Series B shares and ADSs could be materially adversely affected and our operations would likely be impacted, which would likely materially adversely affect us. We cannot assure you that in the future, Banco Santander Mexico or any other of our subsidiaries, will not be deemed to have losses, and if so, that we will have sufficient assets to cover such losses. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Supervision and Regulation—Financial Groups’ Statutory Responsibility.” We are subject to Mexican regulatory inspections, examinations, inquiries or audits, and future sanctions, fines and other penalties resulting from such inspections and audits, including the revocation of Banco Santander Mexico’s banking license, could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by Mexican regulatory authorities, such as the Mexican Central Bank, the CNBV and the Mexican Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, or SHCP). See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—The Mexican Financial System.” These regulatory authorities have broad powers to adopt regulations and other requirements 27 Table of Contents affecting or restricting virtually all aspects of our capitalization, organization and operations, including changes to capital adequacy and allowance for impairment losses requirements, supervision of compliance with rules relating to secrecy, the imposition of anti-money laundering measures and the authority to regulate the terms of products, including the interest rates we charge and the fees we collect in exchange for services. Moreover, Mexican financial regulatory authorities possess significant powers to enforce applicable regulatory requirements, including the imposition of fines, requiring that new capital be contributed, inhibiting us from paying dividends to shareholders or paying bonuses to employees, or the revocation of licenses to operate our business (including our banking or broker-dealer licenses). In the event we encounter significant financial problems or become insolvent or in danger of becoming insolvent, Mexican banking authorities would have the power to take over our management and operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Supervision and Regulation.” The violence in Mexico has adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, the Mexican economy and could have a material adverse effect on us. Mexico has experienced a significant increase over the past few years in violence relating to illegal drug trafficking, particularly in Mexico’s northern states near the U.S. border. This increase in violence has had an adverse impact on the economic activity in Mexico generally. Also, social instability in Mexico or adverse social or political developments in or affecting Mexico could adversely affect us, our ability to conduct our business and offer our services and our ability to obtain financing. We cannot assure you that the levels of violent crime in Mexico, over which we have no control, will not increase or decrease and will have no further adverse effects on Mexico’s economy or on us. Furthermore, illegal activities have resulted in more detailed and comprehensive anti-money laundering rules and an increased supervision of such activities by Mexican regulators, which have impacted the way in which we conduct our foreign-currency cash business and have resulted in an enhancement of our systems and the reinforcement of our compliance measures. Our failure to detect and report anti-money laundering activities may result in fines and may have an impact on our business and results of operations. Different disclosure and accounting principles between Mexico and the United States may provide you with different or less information about us than you expect. There may be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published about companies in the United States. While we are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the disclosure required from foreign private issuers under the Exchange Act is more limited than the disclosure required from U.S. issuers. Additionally, we present our financial statements under IFRS, which differs from U.S. GAAP. In addition, for regulatory purposes, we currently prepare and will continue to prepare and make available to our shareholders statutory financial statements in accordance with Mexican Banking GAAP, which differs from IFRS in a number of respects. Our status as a controlled company and a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, limiting the protections afforded to investors. We are a “controlled company” and a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a controlled company is exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements. In addition, a foreign private issuer may elect to comply with the practice of its home country and not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) a nominating and corporate governance committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (3) a compensation committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (4) an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees be undertaken. Although we have similar practices, they do not entirely conform to the NYSE requirements for U.S. issuers; therefore we currently use these exemptions available to foreign private issuers and intend to continue using them. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all NYSE corporate governance requirements. 28 Table of Contents For example, under our bylaws and in accordance with the Mexican Financial Groups Law and the Mexican Securities Market Law (Ley del Mercado de Valores), at least 25% of the members of our Board of Directors must be independent, but independence is determined in accordance with Article 24 of the Mexican Financial Groups Law and our bylaws rather than NYSE standards. The independence standards in Article 24 of the Mexican Financial Groups Law and our bylaws may not necessarily be consistent with, or as stringent as, the director independence standards established by the NYSE. In addition, like U.S. companies, we are required to have an audit committee that satisfies the requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act, including basic independence standards. However, as a foreign private issuer we are exempt from additional requirements relating to independence and the audit committee charter. As a result, the oversight of our Audit Committee may be different from, or more limited than, the oversight provided by audit committees of U.S. companies listed on the NYSE. We are subject to substantial regulation which could adversely affect our business and operations. In addition, we are subject to regulatory capital and liquidity requirements that could limit our operations, and changes to these requirements may further limit and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and prospects. As a financial institution, we are subject to extensive regulation, including regulation by the Mexican Central Bank, the CNBV and the SHCP, which materially affects our businesses. Statutes, regulations and policies to which we are subject, in particular those relating to the banking sector and financial institutions, may be changed at any time, and the interpretation and the application of those laws and regulations by regulators is also subject to change. For example, the Mexican Finance Minister (Secretario de Hacienda) recently announced that the Mexican federal government will present a package of reforms to the financial system in order to increase the issuance of credit to the private sector. The Mexican Finance Minister announced that tax reforms will be introduced as well. These initiatives are expected to be presented in the second half of 2013. We cannot predict whether these reforms will be adopted and, if adopted, how these reforms will affect our business. Any legislative or regulatory actions and any required changes to our business operations resulting from such legislation and regulations could result in significant loss of revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in which we might otherwise consider engaging, affect the value of assets that we hold, require us to increase our prices and therefore reduce demand for our products, impose additional costs on us or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that future changes in regulations or in their interpretation or application will not adversely affect us. Changes in regulations may also cause us to face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities and provide certain products and services. As some of the banking laws and regulations have been recently adopted, such as the regulations implementing Basel III in Mexico, the manner in which those laws and related regulations are applied to the operations of financial institutions is still evolving. No assurance can be given generally that laws or regulations will be adopted, enforced or interpreted in a manner that will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our bank subsidiary is subject to capital adequacy requirements adopted by the CNBV which provide for a minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted loans, assets and operations of 8%, although 10% is the minimum to avoid any precautionary measures being adopted by the CNBV. Any failure by us to maintain this ratio will result in administrative actions or sanctions which may affect our ability to fulfill our obligations, including losing our banking license. In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, or the Basel Committee, reached agreement on comprehensive changes to the capital adequacy framework, known as Basel III. A revised version of Basel III was published in June 2011. Basel III is intended to raise the resilience of the banking sector by increasing both the quality and quantity of the regulatory capital base and enhancing the risk coverage of the capital framework. Among other things, Basel III introduces new eligibility criteria for Common Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments that are intended to raise the quality of regulatory capital, and increases the amount of regulatory capital that institutions are required to hold. Basel III also requires institutions to maintain a capital conservation buffer above the minimum capital ratios in order to avoid certain capital distribution constraints. The capital conservation buffer, to be comprised of Common Equity Tier 1 capital, would result in an effective Common Equity Tier 1 capital requirement of 7 percent of risk-weighted assets. In addition, Basel III directs national regulators to require certain institutions to maintain a counter-cyclical capital buffer during periods of excessive credit growth. 29 Table of Contents Basel III introduces a leverage ratio for institutions as a backstop measure, to be applied alongside current risk-based regulatory capital requirements. The changes in Basel III are intended to be phased in gradually between January 2013 and January 2022. The Mexican National Banking and Securities Commission (Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores, or CNBV) issued amendments to the capitalization requirements, which became effective on January 1, 2013 and implemented Basel III in all material respects. Effective management of our capital position is important to our ability to operate our business, to continue to grow organically and to pursue our business strategy. However, as these changes to the regulatory capital framework and other changes are implemented or future changes are considered or adopted that limit our ability to manage our balance sheet and capital resources effectively or to access funding on commercially acceptable terms, we may experience a material adverse effect on our financial condition and regulatory capital position. The newly implemented capitalization requirements or their implementation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and prospects. In addition to the changes to the capital adequacy framework published in December 2010 described above, the Basel Committee also published its global quantitative liquidity framework, comprising the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, or LCR, and Net Stable Funding Ratio, or NSFR, metrics, with objectives to (1) promote the short-term resilience of banks’ liquidity risk profiles by ensuring they have sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a significant stress scenario; and (2) promote resilience over a longer time horizon by creating incentives for banks to fund their activities with more stable sources of funding on an ongoing basis. The LCR has been subsequently revised by the Basel Committee in January 2013 which amended the definition of high-quality liquid assets and agreed a revised timetable for phase-in of the standard from 2015 to 2019, as well as making some technical changes to some of the stress scenario assumptions. The final framework to be established in Mexico could differ from Basel III in certain areas. The implementation date is still subject to uncertainty. There is a risk that implementing and maintaining enhanced liquidity risk management systems may incur significant costs, and more stringent requirements to hold liquid assets may materially affect our lending business as more funds may be required to acquire or maintain a liquidity buffer, thereby reducing future profitability. Allowance for impairment losses requirements in Mexico differ from those under IFRS. Except for loans to the Mexican government and the Mexican Central Bank, IPAB and certain international organizations, we are generally required to classify each loan or type of loan according to an assessment of risk based on criteria set forth by Mexican banking regulations and to establish corresponding allowance for impairment losses. For the purposes of the audited financial statements included in this annual report on Form 20-F, we have estimated our allowance for impairment losses using an incurred loss model in accordance with IFRS. However, for capital and other regulatory purposes, including safety and soundness regulation, our allowance for impairment losses is determined based on an expected loss model in accordance with Mexican banking regulations and Mexican Banking GAAP. The Mexican banking regulations criteria to establish an allowance for impairment losses include both qualitative and quantitative factors. Mexican banking regulations relating to loan classification and determination of the allowance for impairment losses are generally different from those applicable to banks under IFRS. In addition, with respect to our commercial, corporate and financial institutions portfolios, we received approval from the CNBV effective as of January 1, 2012 to use our internal models to determine our allowance for impairment losses as an alternative to the standard generic models developed by the CNBV. Our approach is based on the Foundation Internal Ratings-Based Approach as defined in the Basel II accords, and is based on the evaluation of four main factors: country risk, financial risk, industry risk and payment performance. This results in an overall determination of debtor risk, which is then applied to each loan operation and mitigated by any collateral to obtain a risk grade which is associated to a provision factor. We have a mapping between this risk grade and the internal customer rating that has been approved by the CNBV. While our internal methodology has resulted in the calculation of probabilities of default that are lower than the probabilities of default calculated and established by the CNBV in its standard methodology, the use of our internal methodology does not necessarily result in a reduction of capital requirements or in the allowance for impairment losses. 30 Table of Contents Changes to our allowance for impairment losses methodologies could require an increase in our allowance for impairment losses under IFRS and have a material adverse effect on us. The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Mexican economy, including to control inflation. This involvement, together with Mexico’s political and economic conditions, could adversely affect our financial condition and the market price of our securities. The Mexican government frequently intervenes in the Mexican economy and occasionally makes significant changes in policies and regulations. The Mexican government’s actions to control inflation and other policies and regulations historically have involved, among other measures, increases in interest rates, changes in tax policies, price controls, currency fluctuations, taxation on investment flows, capital controls and limits on imports. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price of our securities, may be adversely affected by changes in policies or regulations involving, among others: · interest rates; · exchange rates and controls and restrictions on the movement of capital out of Mexico; · reserve requirements; · capital requirements; · currency fluctuations; · inflation; · liquidity of the domestic capital and lending markets; and · tax and regulatory policies. Mexico has experienced high rates of inflation in the past and has therefore implemented monetary policies that have resulted in high nominal interest rates. The Mexican government’s measures to fight inflation, principally through the Mexican Central Bank, have had and may in the future have significant effects on the Mexican economy and our business. Tight monetary policies with high interest rates and high compulsory deposit requirements may restrict Mexico’s growth and the availability of credit, reduce our loan volumes and increase our loan loss provisions. Conversely, more lenient government and Mexican Central Bank policies and interest rate decreases may trigger increases in inflation, and, consequently, growth volatility and the need for sudden and significant interest rate increases, which could negatively affect our interest rate spreads. Although the Mexican government has implemented what we believe to be sound economic policies over the past few years, uncertainty over whether the Mexican government will implement changes in policy or regulation in the future may contribute to economic uncertainty in Mexico and to heightened volatility in the Mexican securities markets and in the securities issued abroad by Mexican issuers. These uncertainties and other developments in the Mexican economy may adversely affect us and the market value of our securities. Changes in taxes and other fiscal assessments may adversely affect us. The Mexican government regularly enacts reforms to the tax and other assessment regimes to which we and our customers are subject. Such reforms include changes in the rate of assessments and, occasionally, enactment of temporary taxes, the proceeds of which are earmarked for designated governmental purposes. The effects of these changes and any other changes that result from enactment of additional tax reforms have not been, and cannot be, quantified and there can be no assurance that these reforms will not, once implemented, have an adverse effect upon our business. Furthermore, such changes may produce uncertainty in the financial system, increasing the cost of borrowing and contributing to the increase in our non-performing credit portfolio. Major tax reforms in Mexico have been discussed over the last few years. In March 2013, the Mexican Finance Minister announced that the federal government expects to propose tax reforms in the second half of 2013. We 31 Table of Contents cannot predict if such tax reforms will be implemented in the future. The effects of these changes, if enacted, and any other changes that could result from the enactment of additional tax reforms, cannot be quantified. Exposure to Mexican federal government debt could have a material adverse effect on us. Like many other Mexican banks, we invest in debt securities of the Mexican government. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 18.97% of our total assets, and 94.8% of our debt securities portfolio, was comprised of debt securities issued by the Mexican government (including those issued by the Mexican Central Bank). Any failure by the Mexican government to make timely payments under the terms of these securities, or a significant decrease in their market value, will have a material adverse effect on us. Investors may find it difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons. We and all of our subsidiaries are organized under the laws of Mexico. Our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside of the United States. In addition, all or a substantial portion of our assets and their assets are located outside of the United States. Although we have appointed an agent for service of process in any action against us in the United States with respect to our ADSs, none of our directors, officers or controlling persons has consented to service of process in the United States or to the jurisdiction of any United States court. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on such persons. Additionally, investors may experience difficulty in Mexico enforcing foreign judgments obtained against us and our executive officers, directors and controlling persons, including in any action based on civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws. Based on the opinion of our Mexican counsel, there is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in Mexico, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities based solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. See “Enforcement of Judgments.” Risks Relating to the ADSs and Our Series B Shares Preemptive rights may be unavailable to non-Mexican holders of our Series B shares and ADSs and, as a result, they may suffer dilution. Except in certain circumstances (including a follow-on public offering), under Mexican law, if we issue new shares of common stock as part of a capital increase, we generally grant our shareholders the right to subscribe and pay for a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Rights to subscribe and pay for shares in these circumstances are known as preemptive rights. We may not legally be permitted to allow holders of our Series B shares or ADSs in the United States to exercise any preemptive rights in any future capital increase, unless we file a registration statement with the SEC with respect to that future issuance of shares or the offering qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Similar restrictions may apply to holders of our Series B shares or ADSs in other jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that we will file a registration statement with the SEC, or any other regulatory authority, or that an exemption from registration will be available to allow holders of our Series B shares or ADSs in the United States, or any other jurisdiction, to participate in a preemptive rights offering. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC, and any other factors, that we consider important to determine whether we will file such a registration statement. Under Mexican law, sales or other transfers by the depositary of preemptive rights and distribution of the proceeds from such sales to ADS holders is not possible. See “Item 10. Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Preemptive Rights.” Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise voting rights with respect to the Series B shares underlying their ADSs at our shareholders’ meetings. We will not treat holders of ADSs as our shareholders and they may not be able to exercise shareholder rights. The depositary is the holder of the Series B shares underlying the ADSs and holders may exercise voting rights with respect to the Series B shares represented by the ADSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs. There are no provisions under Mexican law or under our bylaws that limit the exercise by ADS holders of their voting rights through the depositary with respect to the underlying Series B shares. However, there are practical limitations on the ability of ADS holders to exercise their voting rights due to the additional procedural 32 Table of Contents steps involved in communicating with these holders. For example, holders of our Series B shares will receive notice of shareholders’ meetings generally through publications in newspapers of wide distribution in Mexico and will be able to exercise their voting rights by either attending the meeting in person or voting by proxy. ADS holders, by comparison, will not receive notice directly from us. Instead, in accordance with the deposit agreement, we will provide the notice to the depositary. If we ask it to do so, the depositary will mail to holders of ADSs the notice of the meeting and a statement as to the manner in which voting instructions may be given by holders. To exercise their voting rights, ADS holders must then instruct the depositary as to voting the Series B shares represented by their ADSs. Due to these procedural steps involving the depositary, the process for exercising voting rights may take longer for ADS holders than for holders of Series B shares. The Series B shares represented by ADSs for which the depositary fails to receive timely voting instructions may, if requested by us, be voted as we instruct at the corresponding meeting. ADS holders may be subject to additional risks related to holding ADSs rather than shares. Because ADS holders do not hold their shares directly, they are subject to the following additional risks, among others: · as an ADS holder, we will not treat you as one of our direct shareholders and you may not be able to exercise shareholder rights; · distributions on the Series B shares represented by your ADSs will be paid to the depositary, and before the depositary makes a distribution to you on behalf of your ADSs, withholding taxes, if any, that must be paid will be deducted and the depositary will be required to convert the Mexican pesos received into U.S. dollars. Additionally, if the exchange rate fluctuates significantly during a time when the depositary cannot convert the Mexican pesos received into U.S. dollars, or while it holds the Mexican pesos, you may lose some or all of the U.S. dollar value of the distribution; · we and the depositary may amend or terminate the deposit agreement without the ADS holders’ consent in a manner that could prejudice ADS holders or that could affect the ability of ADS holders to transfer ADSs; and · the depositary may take other actions inconsistent with the best interests of ADS holders. As a holder of ADSs you will have different shareholders’ rights than in the United States and certain other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our bylaws and Mexican corporate law (including specific laws that regulate us as a financial services holding company), which may differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States or in certain other jurisdictions outside Mexico. Under Mexican corporate law, you may have fewer and less well-defined rights to protect your interests than under the laws of other jurisdictions outside Mexico. For example, under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders and the fiduciary duties of officers and directors are, in some respects, less than, or different from, those existing in the United States and certain other jurisdictions. Actions against officers and directors may only be initiated by holders of blocks of 5% of our outstanding Series B shares (including Series B shares underlying ADSs), as opposed to a single shareholder or group of affected shareholders, and are shareholders’ derivative suits, which benefit us (as the affected company) rather than affected shareholders directly. Rules and policies against self-dealing and regarding conflicts of interest may also be less well-defined and enforced in Mexico than in the United States, putting holders of our Series B shares and ADSs at a potential disadvantage. In particular, the Mexican legal regime concerning fiduciary duties of directors is not as comprehensive or developed as in the United States. The duties of care and loyalty of directors and officers are solely defined by the Mexican Securities Market Law and have not been interpreted or defined by courts and, as a result, the judicial interpretation of the meaning and extent of such duties is uncertain. Although Mexico recently passed laws that permit the initiation of class actions, rules implementing applicable law have not fully developed procedural requirements for class action lawsuits. There has not been a significant number of claims relating to breach of duties, whether as class actions or as derivative suits, to encourage litigation based upon breaches of 33 Table of Contents fiduciary duties or to assist in the predictability of the outcome of any potential action. As a result, it may be more difficult in practice for our minority shareholders to decide to exercise or enforce their rights against us and our directors, officers or controlling shareholders than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. Although Mexican corporate law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, the form of these regulations and the manner of their enforcement may differ from that in the U.S. securities markets or markets in certain other jurisdictions. In addition, in Mexico, self-dealing and the preservation of shareholder interests may be regulated differently, which could potentially disadvantage you as a holder of the shares underlying ADSs. Certain provisions of Mexican law and our bylaws impose limitations on the trading of our securities and may delay or limit a change of control of Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico. Pursuant to the Mexican Financial Groups Law and our bylaws, no person or entity or group of persons or entities may acquire (i) more than 2% of our shares, unless any such person or entity notifies the SHCP, (ii) 5% or more of our shares, unless any such person or entity obtains the prior approval by the SHCP, and (iii) 30% or more of our shares, unless any such person or entity (a) obtains the prior approval of the SHCP, and (b) with the approval of the CNBV, undertakes a public tender offer to purchase (x) if the intended acquisition is for shares representing less than 50% plus one of our shares, the greater of an additional 10% of our aggregate outstanding shares or the percentage of additional shares intended to be acquired, or (y) if the intended acquisition is for shares representing more than 50% of our shares, 100% of our aggregate outstanding shares. Also, under the Mexican Financial Groups Law, foreign entities with governmental authority and Mexican financial entities, including those that are part of a financial group, unless such entities are institutional investors as defined in the Mexican Financial Groups Law, cannot purchase our shares. The aforementioned provisions may delay or limit a change of control of Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico or a change in our management. There may be a lack of liquidity and market for our shares and ADSs. Prior to our initial public offering of ADSs, there was no public market for our ADSs and substantially no liquidity of our Series B shares. Our ADSs are listed and traded on the NYSE under the symbol “BSMX”. Our Series B shares are listed and traded on the Mexican Stock Exchange under the symbol “SANMEX.” At December 31, 2012, we had 6,786,394,913 shares of common stock outstanding, including 3,322,085768 Series B shares and 3,464,309,145 Series F shares. The Mexican securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. Although our Series B shares are traded on the Mexican Stock Exchange, there can be no assurance that a liquid trading market for our Series B shares will continue to exist. Approximately 24.9% of our outstanding Series B shares are held by the public (i.e., shareholders other than Banco Santander Spain and its affiliates), including our Series B shares that are represented by ADSs trading on the NYSE. A limited trading market in general and our concentrated ownership in particular may impair the ability of an ADS holder to sell in the Mexican market Series B shares obtained upon withdrawal of such shares from the ADR facility in the amount and at the price and time such holder desires, and could increase the volatility of the price of the ADSs. In addition, if the trading volume of our ADSs on the NYSE or our Series B shares on the Mexican Stock Exchange were to decline below certain levels, the ADSs or the Series B shares could be delisted or deregistered, further reducing liquidity of our ADSs and Series B shares. The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Mexican securities markets may substantially limit ADS holders’ ability to sell the Series B shares underlying the ADSs at the price and time they desire. Investing in securities that trade in emerging markets, such as Mexico, often involves greater risk than investing in securities of issuers in the United States, and such investments are considered to be more speculative in nature. The Mexican securities market is substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated in a limited number of broker-dealers and institutional participants, and can be more volatile than securities markets in the United States. There is also significantly greater concentration in the Mexican securities market than in major securities markets in the United States. As of December 31, 2012, total market capitalization amounted to U.S.$525.9 billion and the ten 34 Table of Contents largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented approximately 58.9% of the aggregate market capitalization of the Mexican Stock Exchange. Accordingly, although ADS holders are entitled to withdraw the Series B shares underlying the ADSs from the depositary at any time, their ability to sell such shares in the Mexican securities market at a price and time they desire may be limited. Actual or anticipated sales of our Series B shares or the ADSs could cause the price of the Series B shares or of the ADSs to decrease. Our controlling shareholder holds, directly and indirectly, a large number of shares. In connection with our global offering of Series B shares and ADSs, which closed in October 2012, we and our controlling shareholder agreed with the international and Mexican underwriters, subject to certain exceptions, not to offer, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of or hedge our shares of capital stock or ADSs or securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for shares of capital stock or ADSs during the 365-day period following September 25, 2012. These lock-up agreements cover 99.0% of the shares (including in the form of ADSs) that were not sold in the global offering. After these lock-up agreements expire, we and our controlling shareholder will be able to sell our securities in the public market. The market price of our Series B shares or the ADSs could drop significantly if we or our controlling shareholder sell our Series B shares or the ADSs or the market anticipates that such sale is likely to be made. Our shareholders may be subject to liability for certain votes of their securities. Shareholders who have a conflict of interest with us and do not abstain from voting on a resolution that ultimately causes damages and losses to us, may be held liable for such damages and losses, but only if the transaction would not have been approved without the favorable vote of such shareholders. See “Item 10. Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Conflicts of Interest.” 