ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSLimited partner interests are inherently different from shares of capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in similar businesses. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units or the trading price of our common units could decline. Risks Relating to Our BusinessDelek accounts for a substantial majority of our margins. Therefore, we are indirectly subject to the business risks of Delek. If Delek changes its business strategy, fails to satisfy its obligations under our commercial agreements for any reason or significantly reduces the volumes transported through our pipelines or handled at our terminals or its use of our marketing services, our revenues, and, consequently, our margins would decline and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders would be adversely affected. Delek, in its own name and through Aron, accounted for 71.1% of our gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2012. Delek, through Aron, is the principal customer for our Lion Pipeline System, our SALA Gathering System and our Memphis terminal. Delek is the only customer for our East Texas Crude Logistics System and our Big Sandy terminal. See "Commercial Agreements—Commercial Agreements with Delek"; and "—Commercial Agreements with Delek—El Dorado Refinery Crude Oil and Refined Products Supply and Offtake Arrangement". Prior to the Offering, Delek operated these assets solely to support the Tyler and El Dorado Refineries and not as a stand-alone business, further increasing our reliance on the operation of these refineries. We also derive a significant portion of our margin under our marketing agreement with Delek from the output of the Tyler Refinery (other than jet fuel and petroleum coke), which includes an incentive fee to us of 50% of the margin, if any, above an agreed base level (up to $500,000 per quarter). As we expect to continue to derive the substantial majority of our margins from Delek for the foreseeable future, we are subject to the risk of nonpayment, nonperformance or underperformance by Delek under our commercial agreements. If Delek were to significantly decrease, or cause the significant decrease of, the throughput transported on our pipelines or the volumes of refined products handled at our Big Sandy (once operational) or Memphis terminals, because of business or operational difficulties or strategic decisions by Delek’s management, it is unlikely that we would be able to utilize any additional capacity on these pipelines or at these terminal facilities to service third-party customers without substantial capital outlays and delays, if at all, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For example, we expect a reconfigured third-party pipeline system will begin 16supplying crude oil to the Tyler and El Dorado Refineries in the first half of 2013 and cause crude oil volumes transported on our East Texas Crude Logistics System to decrease. Additionally, any event, whether in our areas of operation or otherwise, that materially and adversely affects Delek’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may adversely affect us and our business and therefore our ability to sustain or increase cash distributions to our unitholders. Accordingly, we are indirectly subject to the operational and business risks of Delek, including but not limited to the following: •the risk of contract cancellation, non-renewal or failure to perform by Delek’s customers, and Delek’s inability to replace such contracts, customers and/or revenues; •disruptions due to equipment interruption or failure at Delek’s facilities, such as the November 2008 fire at the Tyler Refinery that resulted in a suspension of operations for more than five months, or at third-party facilities on which Delek’s business is dependent; •the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices and the resulting demand for Delek’s refined products, and the availability and costs of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks; •the effects of economic downturns on Delek’s business and the business of its suppliers, customers, business partners and lenders; •Delek’s ability to remain in compliance with its supply and offtake arrangement with Aron; •Delek’s ability to remain in compliance with the terms of its outstanding indebtedness; •changes in the cost or availability of third-party pipelines, terminals and other means of delivering and transporting crude oil, feedstocks and refined products, such as the reconfigured third-party pipeline system that is expected to begin supplying crude oil to the Tyler and El Dorado Refineries in 2013, the temporary suspension of crude oil shipments by a third-party pipeline operator in May 2011 that caused the El Dorado Refinery to operate at reduced capacity for approximately five weeks and the temporary suspension of crude oil shipments by this third-party pipeline operator in April 2012 that continues to cause the El Dorado Refinery to operate at reduced capacity; •state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, and any changes in those policies and regulations; •environmental incidents and violations and related remediation costs, fines and other liabilities (including those that may arise from pending Department of Justice-led enforcement actions at the Tyler and El Dorado Refineries under the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act, respectively); and •changes in crude oil and refined product inventory levels and carrying costs. Additionally, Delek continually considers opportunities presented by third parties with respect to its refinery assets. These opportunities may include offers to purchase certain assets and joint venture propositions. Delek may also change its refineries’ operations by constructing new facilities, suspending or reducing certain operations, or modifying or closing facilities. Changes may be considered to meet market demands, to satisfy regulatory requirements or environmental and safety objectives, to improve operational efficiency or for other reasons. Delek actively manages its assets and operations, and, therefore, changes of some nature, possibly material to its business relationship with us, may occur at some point in the future. Furthermore, conflicts of interest may arise between Delek and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. We have no control over Delek, our largest source of contribution margin in its own name and through Aron, and Delek may elect to pursue a business strategy that does not favor us or our business. Please see “—Risks Relating to Our Common Units—Our general partner and its affiliates, including Delek, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our other common unitholders” We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to holders of our common and subordinated units. In order to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.375 per unit, or $1.50 per unit on an annualized basis, we will require available cash of approximately $9.4 million per quarter, or $37.4 million per year, based on the number of common, subordinated and general partner units that were outstanding at December 31, 2012 and 494,883 phantom units with distribution equivalent rights that have been awarded to the independent directors of our general partner and certain key employees of our affiliates pursuant to our long-term incentive plan. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: •the volume of crude oil and refined products we handle; •our entitlement to payments associated with minimum volume commitments;•the rates and terminalling and storage fees we charge for the volumes we handle; •the margins generated on the refined products we market or sell;•timely payments by our customers; 17•the level of our operating, maintenance and general and administrative expenses, including the administrative fee under the omnibus agreement and reimbursements to Delek for services provided to us; and •prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: •the level and timing of capital expenditures we make and the timely reimbursement by Delek for any such expenditures for which it is required to reimburse us under our omnibus agreement between Delek and us; •the cost of acquisitions, if any; •our debt service requirements and other liabilities;•fluctuations in our working capital needs; •our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; •restrictions on distributions contained in our debt agreements; •the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner; and •other business risks affecting our cash levels. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow rather than our profitability. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record net losses, and we may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Each of our commercial agreements with Delek and the agreement governing the capacity reservation on our Paline Pipeline System contain provisions that allow our counterparty to such agreement to suspend, reduce or terminate its obligations under such agreement in certain circumstances, including events of force majeure, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders. Each of our commercial agreements with Delek provide that Delek may suspend, reduce or terminate its obligations to us, including the requirement to pay the fees associated with the applicable minimum volume commitments, in the event of (i) a material breach of the agreement by us, (ii) Delek deciding to permanently or indefinitely suspend refining operations at one or more of its refineries, or (iii) the occurrence of certain force majeure events that would prevent us or Delek from performing our or its obligations under the applicable agreement. Delek has the discretion to decide to suspend, reduce or terminate its obligations notwithstanding the fact that its decision may significantly and adversely affect us. For instance, under each of our commercial agreements with Delek, if, at any time after November 7, 2014, Delek decides to permanently or indefinitely suspend refining operations at the refinery served under the applicable agreement for a period that will continue for at least 12 consecutive months, then it may terminate the agreement on no less than 12 months’ prior written notice to us. Furthermore, under such agreements, Delek has the right, commencing November 7, 2015, to suspend or reduce its obligations for the duration of a force majeure event affecting its assets with respect to any affected services, and may terminate the agreements with respect to such services if the force majeure event lasts in excess of 12 months after November 7, 2015. In addition, if a force majeure event occurs on our assets at any time, Delek has the right to suspend or reduce its obligations for the duration of the force majeure event with respect to any affected services. As defined in our commercial agreements with Delek, force majeure events include any acts or occurrences that prevent services from being performed either by us or Delek under the applicable agreement, such as: •acts of God; •strikes, lockouts or other industrial disturbances; •acts of the public enemy, wars, blockades, insurrections, riots or civil disturbances;•storms, floods or washouts; •arrests or the order of any court or governmental authority having jurisdiction while the same is in force and effect; •explosions, breakage, or accident to machinery, storage tanks or lines of pipe; •any inability to obtain or unavoidable delay in obtaining material or equipment; •any inability to deliver crude oil or refined products because of a failure of third-party pipelines; and •any other causes not reasonably within the control of the party claiming suspension and which by the exercise of due diligence such party is unable to prevent or overcome. Our customer for the southbound capacity of the Paline Pipeline System is also excused from performance of its obligations under its agreement with us in the event of a force majeure, including those events outlined above. Additionally, this customer may terminate its agreement with us if we breach the terms of the agreement and fail to remedy the breach within 90 days. Accordingly, there exists a broad range of events that could result in our no longer being able to utilize our pipelines or terminals and the counterparty to the applicable commercial agreement no longer having an obligation to meet its minimum volume commitments or pay the amounts otherwise owing under the applicable agreement. Furthermore, a single event relating to one of Delek’s refineries could have such an impact on multiple of our commercial agreements with Delek. Any reduction, suspension or termination of any of our commercial agreements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders. 18If Delek satisfies only its minimum obligations under, or if we are unable to renew or extend, the various commercial agreements we have with it, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders may be impaired. Delek is not obligated to use, or to pay us with respect to our services for volumes of crude oil or refined products in excess of the minimum volume commitments under the various commercial agreements with us. During refinery turnarounds, which typically last 30 to 60 days and are performed every three to five years, and during other planned maintenance periods, Delek may only satisfy its minimum volume commitments with respect to our assets that serve the refinery. Turnarounds are scheduled at the Tyler and El Dorado Refineries in 2014. If Delek had satisfied only its minimum volume commitments during the year ended December 31, 2012 under each of the various commercial agreements with us, we would not have been able to make the full minimum quarterly distribution on all of our outstanding common units. In addition, the terms of Delek’s obligations under those agreements range from five to ten years unless earlier terminated as described above. If Delek fails to use our services for volumes of crude oil or refined products in excess of the minimum volume commitments or to use our facilities and services after expiration of those agreements, or if Delek terminates those agreements prior to their expiration, and we are unable to generate additional revenues from third parties, our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders may be impaired. See “—We anticipate that, beginning in the first half of 2013, our East Texas Crude Logistics System will operate at levels significantly below Delek’s minimum volume commitment under its agreement with us for the foreseeable future.” We anticipate that, beginning in the first half of 2013, our East Texas Crude Logistics System will operate at levels significantly below Delek’s minimum volume commitment under its agreement with us for the foreseeable future. Our East Texas Crude Logistics System is currently the only pipeline system supplying crude oil to the Tyler Refinery. Beginning in the first half of 2013, however, we expect a reconfigured pipeline system that is owned and operated by third parties to also begin transporting crude oil to the Tyler Refinery from west Texas. Delek has a 10-year agreement with such third parties to transport a substantial majority of the Tyler Refinery’s crude oil requirements on this reconfigured system. Consequently, crude oil volumes transported on our East Texas Crude Logistics System are expected to decrease from approximately 55,000 bpd to below 10,000 bpd. For so long as Delek is required to pay the associated minimum volume commitment under its commercial agreement with us relating to the East Texas Crude Logistics System, Delek will be obligated to pay us throughput fees in an amount equal to the fees it would pay were we to throughput 35,000 bpd, or approximately $5.1 million annually based on the per barrel fees in our agreement. Without the minimum volume commitment, assuming throughput levels of 10,000 bpd, we would be entitled to throughput fees of approximately $1.5 million annually. Such throughput fees are in addition to the storage fees of $3.0 million per year that Delek will be obligated to pay us under the agreement. We do not expect to realize incremental revenues associated with this fee structure following the commencement of third-party transportation to the Tyler Refinery. A material decrease in the refining margins at either of Delek’s refineries could materially reduce the volumes of crude oil or refined products that we handle, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders. The volumes of crude oil and refined products that we transport and refined products that we market depend substantially on Delek’s refining margins. Refining margins are dependent mostly upon the price of crude oil or other refinery feedstocks and the price of refined products. These prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our or Delek’s control, including the global supply and demand for crude oil, gasoline and other refined products. The current global economic uncertainty and high unemployment in the United States or other reasons could depress demand for refined products. The impact of low demand may be further compounded by excess global refining capacity and high inventory levels. Several refineries in North America and Europe have been temporarily or permanently shut down in response to falling demand and excess refining capacity.In addition to current market conditions, there are long-term factors that may impact the supply and demand of refined products in the United States, including: •changes in capacity and utilization rates of refineries worldwide; •increased fuel efficiency standards for vehicles, including greater acceptance of electric and alternative fuel vehicles;•development and marketing of alternative and competing fuels, such as ethanol and biodiesel; •changes in fuel specifications required by environmental and other laws, particularly with respect to renewable fuel content;•potential and enacted climate change legislation; •the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act; and•other U.S. government regulations. The price for a significant portion of the crude oil processed at Delek’s refineries is based upon the West Texas Intermediate (WTI) benchmark for such oil rather than the Brent benchmark. Although these two benchmarks have historically been similarly priced, elevated inventories of WTI-priced crude oil in the Mid-Continent have caused WTI prices to fall significantly below 19the Brent benchmark. During the year ended December 31, 2012, this differential ranged from a high of $25.53 per bbl to a low of $9.17 per bbl. During the year ended December 31, 2011, this differential ranged from a high of $27.88 per bbl to a low of $3.29 per bbl. A substantial or prolonged narrowing in (or inversion to) the price differential between the WTI and Brent benchmarks for any reason, including, without limitation, actual or perceived reductions in Mid-Continent inventories or a continued weakening of economic conditions in the European Union, could negatively impact Delek’s refining margins. In addition, because the premium or discount Delek pays for a portion of the crude oil processed at its refineries is established based upon this differential during the month prior to the month in which the crude oil is processed, changes in the margin between the cost of crude oil and the sales price of refined products may negatively affect its results of operations and cash flows. In addition to our indirect exposure to Delek’s refining margins, we are directly impacted by the wholesale margins of the Tyler Refinery relative to U.S. Gulf Coast prices, where our marketing agreement with Delek provides that we share a portion of Delek’s margin, if any, above an agreed base level generated on the sale of refined products, other than jet fuel and petroleum coke. The Tyler Refinery has historically processed primarily light sweet crude oils, while the El Dorado Refinery processes primarily sour crude oils. Light sweet crude oils have historically been more costly than heavy sour crude oils, and an increase in the cost of light sweet crude oils could negatively impact or reduce Delek’s operations at the Tyler Refinery, which would negatively impact the revenues we generate under our marketing agreement and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. If the demand for refined products, particularly in Delek’s primary market areas, decreases significantly, or if there were a material increase in the price of crude oil supplied to Delek’s refineries without an increase in the value of the refined products produced by those refineries, either temporary or permanent, which caused Delek to reduce production of refined products at its refineries, there would likely be a reduction in the volumes of crude oil and refined products we handle for Delek. Any such reduction could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.A material decrease in the supply of attractively priced crude oil could materially reduce the volumes of crude oil and refined products that we transport and store, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. The volumes of crude oil and refined products that we may transport on our pipelines in excess of Delek’s minimum volume commitments will depend on the volumes of crude oil processed and refined products produced at Delek’s refineries. The volumes of crude oil processed and refined products produced depends, in part, on the availability of attractively priced crude oil. In order to maintain or increase production levels at Delek’s refineries, Delek must continually contract for new crude oil supplies or consider connecting to alternative sources of crude oil. Adverse developments in major oil producing regions around the world could have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows because of our lack of industry and geographic diversity and substantial reliance on Delek as a customer. Accordingly, in addition to risks related to accessing, transporting and storing crude oil and refined products, we are disproportionately exposed to risks inherent in the broader oil and gas industry, including: •the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials for crude oil and refined products; •the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to agree to and maintain production controls; •the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and •the anticipated future prices of crude oil and refined products in markets served by Delek’s refineries.If, as a result of any of these or other factors, the volumes of attractively priced crude oil available to Delek’s refineries are materially reduced for a prolonged period of time, the volumes of crude oil and refined products that we transport and store, and the related fees for those services, could be materially reduced, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our substantial dependence on Delek's Tyler and El Dorado Refineries as well as the lack of diversification of our assets and geographic locations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our common unitholders. We believe that a substantial majority of our contribution margin for the foreseeable future will be derived from operations supporting the Tyler and El Dorado Refineries. Any event that renders either refinery temporarily or permanently unavailable would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Furthermore, we are indirectly impacted by limitations associated with attributes of the Tyler and El Dorado Refineries. For example, for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, most sales of the Tyler Refinery 20products volume were completed through Delek’s rack system located at the Tyler Refinery. Neither we nor Delek owns, and, unlike most refineries, the Tyler Refinery has no access to, an outbound pipeline for distribution of its refined petroleum products outside the northeast Texas market. Such limited access to an outbound pipeline may impair Delek’s ability to attract new customers or increase sales for refined petroleum products from the Tyler Refinery. The Tyler Refinery is currently the only supplier of a full range of refined petroleum products within a radius of approximately 100 miles of its location. If competitors commence operations within the markets served by the Tyler Refinery, it could result in reduced demand for refined products from the Tyler Refinery. If demand for refined products from the Tyler Refinery decreases, our revenues under our marketing agreement above specified minimum throughput fees with Delek may decrease. In addition, reduced demand for refined products from the Tyler Refinery could decrease the demand for crude oil transported on our East Texas Crude Logistics System, which would reduce our revenues. We rely on revenues generated from our pipelines, gathering systems and storage and terminal operations, which are primarily located in Arkansas and Texas and, to a lesser degree, Tennessee. Due to our lack of diversification in assets and geographic location, an adverse development in our businesses or areas of operations, including adverse developments due to catastrophic events, weather, regulatory action and decreases in demand for crude oil and refined products, could have a significantly greater impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our common unitholders than if we maintained more diverse assets and locations. Such events may constitute force majeure events under our commercial agreements, potentially resulting in the suspension, reduction or termination of multiple commercial agreements in the affected geographic area. In addition, during planned maintenance periods or a refinery turnaround, we expect that Delek may only satisfy its minimum volume commitments with respect to our assets that serve such refinery. Please see “—Each of our commercial agreements with Delek and the agreement governing the capacity reservation on our Paline Pipeline System contain provisions that allow our counterparty to such agreement to suspend, reduce or terminate its obligations under such agreement in certain circumstances, including events of force majeure, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders” and “—If Delek satisfies only its minimum obligations under, or if we are unable to renew or extend, the various commercial agreements we have with it, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders will be reduced.” Our ability to expand may be limited if Delek’s business does not grow as expected. Part of our growth strategy depends on the growth of Delek’s business. For example, in our terminals and storage business, we believe our growth will be driven in part by identifying and executing organic expansion or new construction projects that will result in increased or new throughput volumes from Delek and third parties. Our prospects for organic growth currently include projects that we expect Delek to undertake, such as constructing new tankage, and that we expect to have an opportunity to purchase from Delek. In addition, our organic growth opportunities will be limited if Delek is unable to acquire new assets for which our execution of organic projects is needed. Additionally, if Delek focuses on other growth areas or does not make capital expenditures to fund the organic growth of its logistics operations, we may not be able to fully execute our growth strategy. We may not be able to significantly increase our third-party revenue due to competition and other factors, which could limit our ability to grow and may increase our dependence on Delek. Our ability to increase our third-party revenue is subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including competition from third parties and the extent to which we have available capacity when third-party shippers require it. Under our commercial agreements with Delek, we may not provide service to third parties on our Lion Pipeline System, SALA Gathering System or East Texas Crude Logistics System, or at our Memphis or Big Sandy terminals, without Delek’s consent, subject to limited exceptions. In addition, our ability to obtain third-party customers on our East Texas Crude Logistics System will be dependent on our ability to make connections to third-party facilities and pipelines. If we do not or are unable to make connections to third-party facilities and pipelines, or if Delek prohibits us from doing so, the throughput on our East Texas Crude Logistics System will be limited to the demand from the Tyler Refinery not satisfied by third parties and the availability of crude oil shipped from third-party destinations. Furthermore, to the extent that we have capacity at our refined products terminals available for third-party volumes, competition from other existing or future refined products terminals owned by our competitors may limit our ability to utilize this available capacity. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to attract material third-party revenues. Our efforts to establish our reputation and attract new unaffiliated customers may be adversely affected by our relationship with Delek and our desire to provide services pursuant to fee-based contracts. Our potential third-party customers may prefer to obtain services under contracts through which we could be required to assume direct commodity exposure. 21The costs, scope, timelines and benefits of any construction projects we undertake may deviate significantly from our original plans and estimates.One of our business strategies is to evaluate and make capital investments to expand our existing asset base through the development and construction of new or expanded logistics assets. At the same time, we also will need to devote significant resources to maintaining our asset base. However, in developing or maintaining such assets, we may experience unanticipated increases in the cost, scope and completion time for our construction or maintenance and repair projects. Equipment that we require to complete these projects may be unavailable to us at expected costs or within expected time periods. Additionally, labor expense may exceed our expectations. Due to these or other factors beyond our control, we may be unable to complete these projects within anticipated cost parameters and timelines. In addition, the benefits we realize from completed projects may take longer to realize and/or be less than we anticipated. Our inability to complete and/or realize the benefits of construction and/or maintenance projects in a cost-efficient and timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions.If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms to fund expansions of our asset base, our ability to make quarterly cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase. We do not have any commitments with any of our affiliates to provide any direct or indirect financial assistance to us. In order to expand our asset base, we will need to make expansion capital expenditures. If we do not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, we will be unable to expand our business operations and may be unable to maintain or raise the level of our quarterly cash distributions. We will be required to use cash from our operations or incur borrowings or sell additional common units or other limited partner interests in order to fund our expansion capital expenditures. Using cash from operations will reduce cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. Our ability to obtain financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering as well as the covenants in our debt agreements, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. In connection with our cash distribution to Delek in connection with the Offering, we agreed to retain at least $90 million in outstanding debt, either under our credit facility or as a result of certain refinancings thereof, until November 2015. Therefore, the amount of funds we will be able to borrow under our credit facility until November 2015 will limited by this outstanding amount. This may also limit our ability to obtain desired additional debt through this period. Even if we are successful in obtaining funds for expansion capital expenditures through equity or debt financings, the terms thereof could limit our ability to pay distributions to our common unitholders. Moreover, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant common unitholder dilution and increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. Delek’s level of indebtedness, the terms of its borrowings and any future credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to grow our business, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders and our credit ratings and profile. Our ability to obtain credit in the future and our future credit rating may also be affected by Delek’s level of indebtedness. Delek has a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2012, Delek had total debt of $362.2 million, including current maturities of $52.2 million. In addition to its outstanding debt, as of December 31, 2012, letters of credit issued under Delek’s various credit facilities were $181.9 million. Delek’s significant level of debt could increase its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and require Delek to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to service its debt and lease obligations, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund its growth strategy, including capital expenditures, acquisitions and other business opportunities. Furthermore, a higher level of indebtedness at Delek increases the risk that it may default on its obligations, including under its commercial agreements with us. In addition, a substantial portion of Delek’s debt has a variable rate of interest, which increases its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. The covenants contained in the agreements governing Delek’s outstanding and future indebtedness may limit its ability to borrow additional funds for development and make certain investments and may directly or indirectly impact our operations in a similar manner. For example, Delek’s indebtedness requires that any transactions it enters into with us must be on terms no less favorable to Delek than those that could have been obtained with an unrelated person. Furthermore, we have no control over whether Delek remains in compliance with the provisions of its credit arrangements or over the occurrence of certain events, except as such provisions or events may otherwise directly pertain to us or be under our control. If Delek were to default under certain of its debt obligations or if certain events were to occur, we could be materially adversely affected. For example, under the agreements governing Delek’s term note with Bank Leumi USA (the “Leumi Note”), Delek’s term note with Israel Discount Bank of New York (the “IDB Note”) and Lion Oil’s $100 million term loan credit facility (the “Term Loan Facility”), the relevant obligor would have to prepay each such note or loan if (i) Delek Group Ltd. ("Delek Group"), a conglomerate domiciled and publicly traded in Israel that as of December 31, 2012 beneficially owned, through its subsidiaries, approximately 53%, of the outstanding capital stock of Delek, were to beneficially own less than 30% of the outstanding capital stock of Delek, (ii) Delek Group is not the single largest shareholder of Delek, or (iii) the membership of the board of directors of Delek is not comprised of a majority of (a) the members of the current board of directors of Delek, (b) individuals nominated by the current board or future continuing directors or (c) individuals voted for by Delek Group. Neither we nor Delek has the ability to ensure that Delek 22Group's ownership remains at or above 30%, that Delek Group is the largest single shareholder or that the membership of the Delek board of directors is suitable. There is also the risk that if Delek were to default under certain of its debt obligations, Delek’s creditors would attempt to assert claims against our assets during the litigation of their claims against Delek. The defense of any such claims could be costly and could materially impact our financial condition, even absent any adverse determination. In the event these claims were successful, our ability to meet our obligations to our creditors, make distributions and finance our operations could be materially adversely affected.Although we are not contractually bound by and are not liable for Delek’s debt under its credit arrangements, we are indirectly affected by certain prohibitions and limitations contained therein. Specifically, under the terms of certain of its credit arrangements, we expect that Delek will be in default if we incur any indebtedness for borrowed money in excess of $225.0 million at any time outstanding, which amount is subject to increase for certain acquisitions of additional or newly constructed assets and for growth capital expenditures, in each case, net of asset sales, and for certain types of debt, such as debt obligations owed under hedge agreements, intercompany debt of the Partnership and our subsidiaries and debt under certain types of contingent obligations. Delek must also comply with certain financial covenants. Please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Capital Resources and Liquidity—Agreements Governing Certain Indebtedness of Delek.” Due to its ownership and control of our general partner, Delek has the ability to prevent us from taking actions that would cause Delek to violate any covenants in its credit arrangements, or otherwise to be in default under any of its credit arrangements. In deciding whether to prevent us from taking any such action, Delek will have no fiduciary duty to us or our unitholders. Delek’s compliance with the covenants in its credit arrangements may restrict our ability to undertake certain actions that might otherwise be considered beneficial, including borrowing under our credit facility. Any debt instruments that Delek or any of its affiliates enter into in the future, including any amendments to existing credit facilities, may include additional or more restrictive limitations on Delek that may impact our ability to conduct our business. These additional restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in, expand or pursue our business activities. Delek’s debt is not rated by any credit rating agencies. If we were to seek a credit rating in the future, our credit rating may be adversely affected by the leverage or any future credit rating of Delek, as credit rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. may consider the leverage and credit profile of Delek and its affiliates because of their ownership interest in and control of us and because Delek accounts for a substantial majority of our contribution margin. Any adverse effect on our credit rating would likely increase our cost of borrowing or hinder our ability to raise financing in the capital markets, which could impair our ability to grow our business and make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our logistics and marketing operations and Delek’s refining operations are subject to many risks and operational hazards, some of which may result in business interruptions and shutdowns of our or Delek’s facilities and liability for damages. If a significant accident or event occurs that results in a business interruption or shutdown, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our logistics and marketing operations are subject to all of the risks and operational hazards inherent in gathering, transporting and storing crude oil and refined products, including: •damages to pipelines and facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by earthquakes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism;•the inability of third-party facilities on which our operations are dependent, including Delek’s facilities, to complete capital projects and to restart timely refining operations following a shutdown; •mechanical or structural failures at our facilities or at third-party facilities on which our operations are dependent, including Delek’s facilities; •curtailments of operations as a result of severe seasonal weather; •inadvertent damage to pipelines from construction, farm and utility equipment; •constrained pipeline and storage infrastructure; and •other hazards. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage, as well as business interruptions or shutdowns of our facilities. Any such event or unplanned shutdown could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Delek’s refining operations, on which our operations are substantially dependent and over which we have no control, are subject to similar operational hazards and risks inherent in refining crude oil. A significant accident at our facilities or at Delek’s facilities could expose us to significant liability and could affect Delek’s ability and/or requirement to satisfy the minimum volume commitments under our commercial agreements with Delek. 23Our insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that we may experience, and insurance companies that currently insure companies in the energy industry may cease to do so or substantially increase premiums. We are insured under the property, liability and business interruption insurance policies of Delek, subject to the deductibles and limits under those policies. To the extent Delek experiences losses under the insurance policies, the limits of our coverage may be decreased. In addition, we are not insured against all potential losses, costs or liabilities. We could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. In addition, because Delek’s business interruption policy does not cover losses for the first 21, 30, 45 or 60 days of the interruption, depending on the facility, a significant part or all of a business interruption loss could be uninsured. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities or multiple facilities can result in significant costs to both energy industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers. In recent years, several large energy industry claims have resulted in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductible periods for participants in the energy industry. For example, hurricanes in recent years have caused significant damage to several pipelines along the United States Gulf Coast. As a result of large energy industry claims, insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice, may reduce the insurance coverage they are willing to offer or demand significantly higher premiums or deductible periods to cover these facilities. If significant changes occur in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at reasonable cost. In addition, we cannot be assured that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. The unavailability of full insurance coverage to cover events in which we suffer significant losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A material decrease in the supply, or increase in the price, of crude oil produced in the southern Arkansas and northern Louisiana area or increased competition for the purchasing and transporting of such crude could materially reduce the volume of crude oil gathered and transported by our SALA Gathering System, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders. All southern Arkansas and northern Louisiana area crude oil supplied to the El Dorado Refinery is gathered and transported by our SALA Gathering System. In order to maintain or increase refined product production levels at the El Dorado Refinery, Delek must continually contract for new crude oil supplies in the southern Arkansas and northern Louisiana area or consider connecting to alternative sources of crude oil, such as crude oil supplied from Texas through third-party pipelines. Adverse developments in the southern Arkansas and northern Louisiana area, including reduced availability of production surrounding our SALA Gathering System or an increase in the price of crude oil supplied in this area, could result in decreased throughput on our SALA Gathering System, because this area is the sole source of crude oil for our SALA Gathering System. Reserves in this area could be lower than we currently anticipate, and production may decline faster than we currently project. Accordingly, in addition to general industry risks related to gathering and transporting crude oil, we are disproportionately exposed to certain risks in the southern Arkansas and northern Louisiana area, including: •reduced development and production associated with depressed commodity prices; •volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials; •lack of drilling activity; •the limited availability of drilling rigs for producers; •weather-related curtailment of operations by producers and disruptions to gathering and transportation operations; •the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and •the anticipated future prices of crude oil and refined products in markets that the El Dorado Refinery serves. Furthermore, the development of third-party crude oil gathering systems in the southern Arkansas and northern Louisiana area could disproportionately impact our SALA Gathering System, should producers ship on competing systems or using alternative methods, thereby impacting the price and availability of crude oil to be transported to the El Dorado Refinery by our SALA Gathering System. Additionally, due to the current attractive pricing for such crude, third parties who do not currently ship on our pipeline or gathering systems may seek to enter the market and attempt to purchase crude oil in the southern Arkansas and northern Louisiana markets that Delek currently purchases and ships on our SALA Gathering System. If, as a result of any of these or other factors, the volume of attractively priced crude oil available to the El Dorado Refinery is materially reduced for a prolonged period of time, the volume of crude oil gathered and transported by our SALA Gathering System and the related 24fees could be materially reduced, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. If third-party pipelines, terminals or other facilities interconnected to our pipeline systems or terminals become partially or fully unavailable, or if we are unable to fulfill our contractual obligations, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Our pipelines and terminals connect to other pipelines, terminals and facilities owned and operated by unaffiliated third parties, including ExxonMobil Corporation, Chevron Corporation, Enterprise Products Partners L.P. and others. The continuing operation of such third-party pipelines, terminals and other facilities is not within our control. For example: •all of the southbound volumes to be shipped on our Paline Pipeline System are delivered through a third-party terminal; •the temporary suspension of crude oil shipments on a damaged pipeline owned by a third-party operator that began in April 2012 caused, and its after-effects may continue to cause, volumes on our Lion Pipeline System to be below historical volumes; and •our Big Sandy terminal is currently not operational because a pipeline owned by a third party, which is necessary for the use of the terminal, is out of service. These pipelines, terminals and other facilities may become unavailable because of testing, turnarounds, line repair, reduced operating pressure, lack of operating capacity, regulatory requirements, curtailments of receipt or deliveries due to insufficient capacity or because of damage from hurricanes or other operational hazards. In addition, we do not have interconnect agreements with all of these pipelines, terminals and other facilities and the interconnect agreements we do have may be terminated in certain circumstances, including circumstances beyond our control, and on short notice. For example, our customer for the southbound capacity of our Paline Pipeline System is required to make only payments of $229,000 per month in 2012 for this capacity until the final segment of the reversal of the Paline Pipeline System is completed and we enter into a connection agreement with an affiliate of the customer to connect our system with such affiliate's tanks. We completed our work on the fourth segment of the reversal in October 2012 and are currently waiting for our customer to complete its work on its tanks so that we can enter into the connection agreement. Because we have completed our necessary work, we believe we are owed the full payment under the contract, beginning in November 2012 but our customer has only paid $229,000 per month in 2012. See "Commercial Agreements —Commercial Agreements with Third Parties—Pipelines and Transportation—Paline Pipeline System Capacity Reservation." Pursuant to the omnibus agreement, Delek has agreed to indemnify us during the period from November 1, 2012 through December 31, 2013 for any lost service fees attributable to the failure to complete the reversal and execute the connection agreement. If we do not complete the reversal and execute the connection agreement by December 31, 2013, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our uintholders could be adversely affected. In addition, if any of these pipelines, terminals or other facilities become unable to receive or transport crude oil or refined products, we may be unable to perform our obligations under our commercial agreements with Delek and third parties, and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Similarly, if additional shippers begin transporting volumes of refined products or crude oil over interconnecting pipelines, the allocations to us and other existing shippers on these interconnecting pipelines could be reduced, which could also reduce volumes distributed through our terminals or transported through our crude oil pipelines. Allocation reductions of this nature are not infrequent and are beyond our control. Any significant reduction in volumes would adversely affect our revenues and cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. An interruption or termination of supply and delivery of refined products to our wholesale marketing business could result in a decline in our sales and profitability. In our west Texas wholesale marketing business, we sell refined products produced by refineries owned by unaffiliated third parties. In 2012, we received substantially all of our supply of refined products for our west Texas wholesale business from two suppliers, Noble Petro and Magellan. We could experience an interruption or termination of supply or delivery of refined products if our suppliers partially or completely ceased operations, temporarily or permanently, or ceased to supply us with refined products for any reason. The ability of these refineries and our suppliers to supply refined products to us could be disrupted by anticipated events such as scheduled upgrades or maintenance, as well as events beyond their control, such as unscheduled maintenance, fires, floods, storms, explosions, power outages, accidents, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events, labor difficulties and work stoppages, governmental or private party litigation, or legislation or regulation that adversely impacts refinery operations. A reduction in the volume of refined products supplied to our wholesale business would likely adversely affect our sales and profitability. 25Fluctuations in the prices of refined petroleum products that we purchase and sell in our west Texas wholesale marketing business could materially affect our results of operations. In our west Texas wholesale marketing business, for the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 27.1% of the refined products we resold to our customers were purchased under our agreement with Magellan. Significant fluctuations in market prices of these products during the period between our purchase from Magellan and subsequent resale to customers could result in losses or lower profits from these activities, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate and our ability to pay cash distributions. Additionally, significant fluctuations in market prices of these refined products could result in significant unrealized gains or losses to the extent we enter into transactions to hedge our commodity exposure. To the extent these transactions have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes, the associated non-cash unrealized gains and losses would directly impact our results of operations. We are exposed to the credit risks and certain other risks of our key customers, including Delek, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers, including Delek or Aron, could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. If any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Any loss of our key customers, including Delek, could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.Our revolving credit facility limits our ability to, among other things: •incur or guarantee additional debt; •incur certain liens on assets; •dispose of assets; •make certain cash distributions or redeem or repurchase units; •change the nature of our business; •engage in certain mergers or acquisitions; •make certain investments and acquisitions; and •enter into non arms-length transactions with affiliates. Our credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios. In addition, our credit facility contains events of default customary for agreements of this nature, including the occurrence of a change of control (which will occur if, among other things, (i) Delek ceases to own and control legally and beneficially at least 51% of the equity interests of our general partner, (ii) Delek Logistics GP, LLC ceases to be our general partner or (iii) we fail to own and control legally and beneficially 100% of the equity interests of any other borrower under our credit facility, unless otherwise permitted thereunder). The provisions of our credit facility may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our credit facility could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other outstanding amounts, to be immediately due and payable. Such event of default would also permit our lenders to foreclose on our assets serving as collateral for our obligations under the credit facility. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. The credit facility also has cross-default provisions that will apply to any other material indebtedness we may have. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2012, we had $90.0 million in debt outstanding. This debt was incurred in connection with our cash distribution to Delek as part of the Offering, at which time we agreed to retain at least $90.0 million in outstanding debt, either under our credit facility or as a result of certain refinancings thereof, until November 2015. We have the ability to incur additional debt, however such ability is subject to limitations in our revolving credit facility. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: 26•our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; •our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make payments on our debt and any interest thereon; •we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and •our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, which is within our control, or such as reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital, which actions we may not be able to effect on satisfactory terms or at all. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact the price of our common units, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Floating interest rates on our existing credit facility, to the extent not hedged, and interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on the price of our common units, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Significant portions of our pipeline systems have been in service for several decades. There could be service interruptions due to unknown events or conditions or increased maintenance or repair expenses and downtime associated with our pipelines that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Significant portions of our pipeline systems and our SALA Gathering System have been in service for several decades. The age and condition of our systems could result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures, and any downtime associated with increased maintenance and repair activities could materially reduce our revenue. Any significant increase in maintenance and repair expenditures or loss of revenue due to the age or condition of our systems could adversely affect our business and results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our right of first offer to acquire certain of Delek’s existing logistics assets and certain assets that it may acquire or construct in the future is subject to risks and uncertainty, and ultimately we may not acquire any of those assets. The omnibus agreement provides us with a right of first offer until November 2022 on certain of Delek’s existing logistics assets and certain assets that it may acquire or construct in the future, subject to certain exceptions. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions pursuant to this right will depend on, among other things, Delek’s willingness to offer such assets for sale and obtain any necessary consents, our ability to negotiate acceptable purchase agreements and commercial agreements with respect to such assets and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisitions pursuant to our right of first offer, and Delek is under no obligation to accept any offer that we may choose to make. In addition, we may decide not to exercise our right of first offer if and when any assets are offered for sale, and our decision will not be subject to unitholder approval. In addition, our right of first offer may be terminated by Delek at any time in the event that it no longer controls our general partner. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from Delek or third parties, our future growth could be limited, and any acquisitions we may make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders. A portion of our strategy to grow our business and increase distributions to unitholders is dependent on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in cash flow. If we are unable to make acquisitions from Delek or third parties, because we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, we are unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, we are outbid by competitors or we or the seller are unable to obtain any necessary consents, our future growth and ability to increase distributions to unitholders may be limited. Furthermore, even if we do consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, they may in fact result in a decrease in cash flow. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: •mistaken assumptions about revenues and costs, including synergies; •the assumption of unknown liabilities; 27•limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; •mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; •the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; •unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and •customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations of the assets we have acquired or of any future acquisitions with our existing operations, and in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions. From time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. Our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly as a result of future acquisitions. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition, if at all. Also, following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business or assets for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline integrity management program testing and related repairs. Certain of our pipeline facilities are subject to the pipeline safety regulations of PHMSA at the DOT. PHMSA regulates the design, construction, testing, operation, maintenance and emergency response of crude oil, petroleum products and other hazardous liquid pipeline facilities under 49 C.F.R. Part 195. Pursuant to the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, as reauthorized and amended by the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety Act of 2006 ("PIPES Act"), PHMSA has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for hazardous liquids pipelines located where a leak or rupture could affect “high consequence areas,” which are populated or environmentally sensitive areas. Pursuant to the PIPES Act, PHMSA issued regulations on May 5, 2011, that would, with limited exceptions, subject all low-stress hazardous liquids pipelines, regardless of location or size, to PHMSA’s pipeline safety regulations and would subject those low-stress hazardous liquids pipelines within one half mile of an environmentally sensitive area to the integrity management requirements. The integrity management regulations require operators, including us, to: •perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; •identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; •maintain processes for data collection, integration and analysis; •repair and remediate pipelines as necessary; and •implement preventive and mitigating actions. We may incur significant costs and liabilities associated with compliance with the pipeline safety regulations and any corresponding repair, remediation, preventive or mitigation measures required for our non-exempt pipeline facilities, including lost cash flows resulting from shutting down our pipelines during the pendency of such repairs. Moreover, changes to pipeline safety laws and regulations that result in more stringent or costly safety standards could have a material adverse effect on us and similarly situated midstream operators. On January 3, 2012, President Obama signed the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011, which (i) increases the maximum civil penalties for pipeline safety administrative enforcement actions, (ii) requires the Secretary of Transportation to study and report on the expansion of integrity management requirements, the sufficiency of existing gathering line regulations to ensure safety, and the use of leak detection systems by hazardous liquid pipelines, (iii) requires pipeline operators to verify their records on maximum allowable operating pressure and (iv) imposes new emergency response and incident notification requirements. The provisions of this Act and other changes to pipeline safety laws and regulations could require us to pursue additional capital projects or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, any or all of which requirements could result in our incurring increased operating costs that could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 28In addition, many states have adopted regulations similar to existing DOT regulations for hazardous liquids pipelines within their state. These regulations can apply to pipeline facilities exempt from PHMSA jurisdiction as well as intrastate pipeline facilities subject to PHMSA jurisdiction, but for which the state has been certified by PHMSA to inspect, regulate and enforce the regulations for the intrastate facilities. Should we fail to comply with PHMSA or applicable state regulations, we could be subject to penalties and fines. Our expansion of existing assets and construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A portion of our strategy to grow and increase distributions to unitholders is dependent on our ability to expand existing assets and to construct additional assets. We have no material commitments for expansion or construction projects as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The construction of a new pipeline or terminal or the expansion of an existing pipeline or terminal involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. If we undertake these types of projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. Moreover, we may not receive sufficient long-term contractual commitments from customers to provide the revenue needed to support such projects. Even if we receive such commitments, we may not realize an increase in revenue for an extended period of time. For instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project, if at all. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region or gain access to crude supplies at lower costs and such growth or access may not materialize. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and terminal facilities are located, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way, if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate or if our facilities are not properly located within the boundaries of such rights-of-way. Although many of these rights are perpetual in nature, we occasionally obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. If we are unsuccessful in renegotiating rights-of-way, we may have to relocate our facilities. A loss of rights-of-way or a relocation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Whether we have the power of eminent domain for our pipelines varies from state to state, depending upon the type of pipeline (for example, crude oil or refined products) and the laws of the particular state. In either case, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property and, in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court. Our inability to exercise the power of eminent domain could negatively affect our business if we were to lose the right to use or occupy the property on which our pipelines are located. We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future laws, regulations and other requirements could significantly increase our costs of doing business, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. Our industry is subject to extensive laws, regulations and other requirements including, but not limited to, those relating to the environment, safety, pipeline tariffs, employment, labor, immigration, minimum wages and overtime pay, health care and benefits, working conditions, public accessibility and other requirements. These laws and regulations are enforced by federal agencies including the EPA, the DOT / PHMSA, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, or FMCSA, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, or OSHA, and the FERC and state agencies such as the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, the Railroad Commission of Texas, the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality and the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation, as well as numerous other state and federal agencies. Ongoing compliance with, or a violation of, these laws, regulations and other requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations. However, these laws and regulations, and the interpretation or enforcement thereof, are subject to change by regulatory authorities, and we are unable to predict the ongoing cost to us of complying with these laws and regulations or the future impact of these laws and regulations on our operations. Violation of environmental laws, regulations and permits can result in the imposition of significant administrative, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions and construction bans or delays. Under various federal, state and local environmental requirements, as the owner or operator of terminals and pipelines, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of contamination at our existing locations, whether we knew of, or 29were responsible for, the presence of such contamination. We have incurred such liability in the past and some of our locations are the subject of ongoing remediation and/or monitoring projects. The failure to timely report and properly remediate contamination may subject us to liability to third parties and may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent our property or to borrow money using our property as collateral. Additionally, we may be liable for the costs of remediating third-party sites where hazardous substances from our operations have been transported for treatment or disposal, regardless of whether we own or operate that site. In the future, we may incur substantial expenditures for investigation or remediation of contamination that has not yet been discovered at our current or former locations or locations that we may acquire. A discharge of hydrocarbons or hazardous substances into the environment could, to the extent the event is not insured, subject us to substantial expense, including the cost to comply with applicable laws and regulations, fines and penalties, natural resource damages and claims made by employees, neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage. We may experience future catastrophic sudden or gradual releases into the environment from our pipelines and terminals or discover historical releases that were previously unidentified or not assessed. Although our inspection and testing programs are designed to prevent, detect and address these releases promptly, any damages and liabilities incurred due to any future environmental releases from our assets have the potential to substantially affect our business. Environmental regulation is becoming more stringent, and new environmental laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed and interpretations of existing requirements may change from time to time. While it is impractical to predict the impact that future environmental, health and safety requirements or changed interpretations of existing requirements may have, such future activity may result in material expenditures to ensure our continued compliance. Such future activity could also adversely affect our ability to expand production or reduce demand for our products or services. We could incur substantial costs or disruptions in our business if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits and authorizations or otherwise comply with health, safety, environmental and other laws and regulations. Our operations require numerous permits and authorizations under various laws and regulations. These authorizations and permits are subject to revocation, renewal or modification and can require operational changes to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and/or health and safety. A violation of authorization or permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, material modifications of our operations could require modifications to our existing permits or upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment. Any or all of these matters could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating and capital costs and reduced demand for our products and services. In December 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of greenhouse gases, or GHGs, present a danger to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic conditions. Based on these findings, the EPA adopted two sets of regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act, including one that requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and another that regulates GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources under the Clean Air Act Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and Title V permitting programs. In addition, the EPA expanded its existing GHG emissions reporting rule to include onshore oil and natural gas processing, transmission, storage, and distribution activities, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. Congress has also from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs. Although it is not possible to predict the requirements of any GHG legislation that may be enacted, any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce GHG emissions may require us to incur increased operating costs. If we are unable to maintain sales of our refined products at a price that reflects such increased costs, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, any increase in the prices of refined products resulting from such increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, GHG regulation could also impact the consumption of refined products, thereby affecting the demand for our services. In 2010, the EPA and the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA) finalized new standards, raising the required Corporate Average Fuel Economy, or CAFE, standard of the nation’s passenger fleet by 40% to approximately 35 miles per gallon by 2016 and imposing the first ever federal GHG emissions standards on cars and light trucks. In September 2011, the EPA and the Department of Transportation finalized first-time standards for fuel economy of medium and heavy duty trucks. On August 28, 2012, the EPA and NHTSA announced final regulations that mandated further decreases in passenger vehicle GHG emissions and increases in fuel economy beginning with 2017 model year vehicles and increasing to the equivalent of 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025. Such increases in fuel economy standards and potential electrification of the vehicle fleet, along with mandated increases in use of renewable fuels discussed above, could result in decreasing demand for petroleum fuels. Decreasing demand for petroleum fuels could materially affect profitability at Delek’s refineries and convenience stores, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and cash flows. 30Our operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to product quality specifications, and we could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers or lose customers as a result of the failure of products we distribute to meet certain quality specifications. Various federal and state agencies prescribe specific product quality specifications for refined products, including vapor pressure, sulfur content, ethanol content and biodiesel content. Changes in product quality specifications or blending requirements could reduce our throughput volume, require us to incur additional handling costs or require capital expenditures. For example, mandated increases in use of renewable fuels could require the construction of additional storage and blending equipment. If we are unable to recover these costs through increased revenues, our cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Violations of product quality laws attributable to our operations could subject us to significant fines and penalties as well as negative publicity. In addition, changes in the product quality of the products we receive on our pipeline system could reduce or eliminate our ability to blend products. We have a responsibility to ensure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks. Off specification product distributed for public use, even if not a violation of specific product quality laws, could result in poor engine performance or even engine damage. This type of incident could result in liability claims regarding damages caused by the off specification fuel or could result in negative publicity, impacting our ability to retain existing customers or to acquire new customers, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. If our general partner or Delek loses any of its key personnel, our general partner's ability to manage our business on our behalf and continue our growth could be negatively impacted. Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our general partner's officers and key technical personnel of Delek. Neither we nor our general partner nor Delek currently maintains key person life insurance policies for any of such persons. The loss or unavailability to us of any of these officers or key technical employees could significantly harm us. Our general partner and Delek face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. To the extent that the services of any of our general partner's officers and/or the key technical personnel would be unavailable for any reason, we or our general partner or Delek would be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our business. We cannot be assured that we, our general partner or Delek would be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms or at all. A terrorist attack on our assets, or threats of war or actual war, may hinder or prevent us from conducting our business. Terrorist attacks in the United States, as well as events occurring in response or similar to or in connection with such attacks, including political instability in various Middle Eastern countries, may harm our business. Energy-related assets (which could include pipelines and terminals such as ours) may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other possible targets in the United States. In addition, the State of Israel, where Delek Group is based, has suffered armed conflicts and political instability in recent years. We may be more susceptible to terrorist attack as a result of our connection to an Israeli owner. In the future, certain of the directors of our general partner may reside in Israel. A direct attack on our assets, Delek’s assets or the assets of others used by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any terrorist attack or continued political instability in the Middle East could have an adverse impact on energy prices, including prices for the crude oil and other feedstocks we transport and refined petroleum products, and an adverse impact on the margins from our operations. Disruption or significant increases in energy prices could also result in government-imposed price controls. Further, changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital, including our ability to repay or refinance debt. Our customers’ operating results are seasonal and generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Our customers depend on favorable weather conditions in the spring and summer months. The volume and throughput of crude oil and refined products transported through our pipelines and sold through our terminals and to third parties is directly affected by the level of supply and demand for all of such products in the markets served directly or indirectly by our assets. Supply and demand for such products fluctuate during the calendar year. Demand for gasoline, for example, is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in motor vehicle traffic, while demand for asphalt products, which is a substantial product of Delek's El Dorado Refinery, is lower in the winter months. In addition, our refining customers, such as Delek, occasionally slow or shut down operations to perform planned maintenance during the winter, when demand for their products is lower. Accordingly, these factors can affect the need for crude oil or finished products by our customers and therefore limit our volumes or throughput during these periods, and could adversely affect our customers’ business, financial condition and results of operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31Our exposure to direct commodity price risk and interest rate risk may increase in the future. We may incur losses as a result of our forward contract activities and derivative transactions. Although we intend to enter into fixed-fee contracts with new transportation and terminalling customers in the future, our efforts to obtain such contractual terms may not be successful. In addition, we may acquire or develop additional midstream assets in the future that do not provide services primarily based on capacity reservation charges or other fixed-fee arrangements and therefore have a greater exposure to fluctuations in commodity price risk than our current operations. Increased future exposure to the volatility of commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. To partially mitigate the risk of various financial exposures inherent in our business, including commodity price risk and interest rate risk, we selectively use derivative financial instruments, such as fuel-related derivative transactions, interest rate swaps and interest rate cap agreements. In connection with such derivative transactions, we may be required to make payments to maintain margin accounts and to settle the contracts at their value upon termination. The maintenance of required margin accounts and the settlement of derivative contracts at termination could cause us to suffer losses or limited gains. In particular, derivative transactions could expose us to the risk of financial loss upon unexpected or unusual variations in the sales price of wholesale gasoline. We cannot assure you that the strategies underlying these transactions will be successful. If any of the instruments we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk is not effective, we may incur losses.The adoption of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivatives to reduce the effect of commodity price risk, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The U.S. Congress recently adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that, among other things, establishes comprehensive federal oversight and regulation of over-the-counter derivatives and many of the entities that participate in that market. Although the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted on July 21, 2010, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, and the SEC, along with certain other regulators, must promulgate final rules and regulations to implement many of the Dodd-Frank Act's provisions relating to over-the-counter derivatives. While some of these rules have been finalized, others have not; and, as a result, the final form and timing of the implementation of the new regulatory regime affecting commodity derivatives remains uncertain. In particular, on October 18, 2011, the CFTC adopted final rules under the Dodd-Frank Act establishing position limits for certain energy commodity futures and options contracts and economically equivalent swaps, futures and options. The position limit levels set the maximum amount of covered contracts that a trader may own or control separately or in combination, net long or short. The final rules also contain limited exemptions from position limits, which will be phased in over time for certain bona fide hedging transactions and positions that were established in good faith before the initial limits become effective. On December 2, 2011, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association filed a legal challenge to the final rules, claiming, among other things, that the rules may adversely impact commodities markets and market participants, including end-users, by reducing liquidity and increasing price volatility. In response to this legal challenge, the position limits rules were vacated by a United States District Court on September 28, 2012. The CFTC has appealed that decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and that appeal is pending before the court. Regardless of the outcome of the appeal, the CFTC could promulgate new rules that address the defects identified by the District Court. If these position limits rules go into effect in the future, the timing of implementation of the final rules on position limits, and their applicability to, and impact on, us remain uncertain, and there can be no assurance that they will not have a material adverse impact on us by affecting the prices of or market for commodities relevant to our operations and/or by reducing the availability to us of commodity derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes a number of other new requirements on certain over-the-counter derivatives and subjects certain swap dealers and major swap participants to significant new regulatory requirements, which in certain cases may cause them to conduct their activities through new entities that may not be as creditworthy as our current counterparties, all of which may have a material adverse effect on us. The impact of this new regulatory regime on the availability, pricing and terms and conditions of commodity derivatives remains uncertain, but there can be no assurance that it will not have a material adverse effect on our ability to hedge our exposure to commodity prices. In addition, under Dodd-Frank swap dealers and major swap participants will be required to collect initial and variation margin from certain end-users of over-the-counter derivatives, and requires many trades that are currently done bilaterally to be cleared through a clearing house. The rules implementing many of these requirements have not all been finalized and therefore the timing of their implementation and their applicability to us remains uncertain. Depending on the final rules ultimately adopted, we might in the future be required to post collateral for some or all of our derivative transactions, which could reduce our ability to use cash or other assets for capital expenditures or other partnership purposes and reduce our ability to execute strategic hedges to mitigate commodity price uncertainty and protect cash flows. 32We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy or interruption of that technology could harm our business. We inherited information technology systems and controls that monitor the movement of petroleum products through our pipeline systems. Information technology system failures, network disruptions (whether intentional by a third party or due to natural disaster), breaches of network or data security, or disruption or failure of the network system used to monitor and control pipeline operations could result in environmental damage, operational disruptions, regulatory enforcement or private litigation. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes, or errors by our employees. Further, the failure of any of our systems to operate effectively, or problems we may experience with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, could significantly harm our business and operations and cause us to incur significant costs to remediate such problems. There can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Transportation on certain of our pipelines is subject to federal or state rate and service regulation, and the imposition and/or cost of compliance with such regulation could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. The rates and terms and conditions of service on certain of our pipelines are subject to regulation by the FERC under the Interstate Commerce Act or by the state regulatory commissions in the states in which we transport crude oil and refined products, including the Railroad Commission of Texas, the Louisiana Public Service Commission and the Arkansas Public Service Commission. We filed tariffs with the FERC for service on the SALA Gathering System, the Magnolia Pipeline System, the El Dorado Pipeline System and a pipeline that is part of our Lion Oil System and is currently used by one shipper. We have been granted a waiver of FERC's tariff filing requirements for service on the East Texas Crude Logistics System, but remain subject to certain reporting requirements. The FERC regulates interstate transportation under the ICA, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and the rules and regulations promulgated under those laws. The ICA and its implementing regulations require that tariff rates and terms and conditions of service for interstate service on oil pipelines, including pipelines that transport crude oil and refined products in interstate commerce (collectively referred to as “petroleum pipelines”), be just, reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential. The ICA also requires that such rates and terms and conditions of service be filed with the FERC. Under the ICA, shippers may challenge new or existing rates or services. The FERC is authorized to suspend the effectiveness of a challenged rate that has not yet become effective for up to seven months, though rates are typically not suspended for the maximum allowable period. If the FERC determines that a protested rate is unjust and unreasonable, the FERC will order refunds of amounts charged in excess of the just and reasonable rate. If the FERC determines that a rate challenged by complaint is unjust and unreasonable, reparations may be due for two years prior to the date of the complaint. If any challenge were successful, among other things, the rates that we charge under the tariffs that we intend to file could be reduced and such reductions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. The FERC currently permits, but does not require, regulated pipelines to increase their rates by a percentage factor equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 2.65 percent. Application of this index factor establishes a change in maximum allowable rate. Interested parties are permitted to protest a proposed index rate increase, and we cannot guarantee that the FERC will accept any such proposed increase if it is protested. In the event the index factor decreases in a given year, we may be required to reduce our rates if they exceed the new maximum allowable rate. The FERC’s indexing methodology is subject to review every five years; the current methodology will remain in place through June 30, 2016. Application of the FERC’s current or any revised indexing methodology may be insufficient to allow us to recover our actual increases in costs. If application of the indexing methodology does not permit a pipeline to recover its costs, the FERC’s regulations generally permit the pipeline to request a rate increase based on its actual cost of service. We cannot guarantee that any such proposed rate increase would be accepted. The FERC has granted a waiver of the tariff filing and reporting requirements imposed under the ICA for the East Texas Crude Logistics System. The East Texas Crude Logistics System remains subject to the FERC’s jurisdiction under the ICA and is subject to the requirement to maintain books and records in accordance with FERC accounting requirements; we intend to comply with that requirement. If the facts upon which the waiver is based change materially (for example, if an unaffiliated shipper seeks access to our pipelines), the FERC typically requires that pipelines inform it of such changes, which may result in revocation of the waiver. If the FERC in the future revokes the waiver, we will be required, among other things, to file tariffs for service on the East Texas Crude Logistics System. If we file tariffs, we may be required to provide a cost justification for the transportation charge. We would also be required to provide service to all prospective shippers making reasonable requests for service without undue discrimination and to operate in a manner that does not provide any undue preference to shippers. The rates under such tariffs may be insufficient to allow us to recover fully our cost of providing service on the affected pipelines, 33which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regulation by the FERC may subject us to potentially burdensome and expensive operational, reporting and other requirements. The Federal Trade Commission, the FERC and the CFTC hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to our physical sales of oil or other energy commodities, and any related hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While the FERC regulates rates and terms and conditions of service for transportation of crude oil or refined products in interstate commerce by pipeline, state agencies may regulate rates and terms and conditions of service for petroleum pipeline transportation in intrastate commerce. There is not a clear boundary between transportation service provided in interstate commerce, which is regulated by the FERC, and transportation service provided in intrastate commerce, which is not regulated by the FERC. Such determinations are highly fact-dependent and are made on a case-by-case basis. We cannot provide assurance that the FERC will not at some point assert that some or all of the transportation service we provide is within its jurisdiction. If the FERC were successful with any such assertion, its rate-making methodologies may subject us to potentially burdensome and expensive operational, reporting and other requirements. We own pipeline assets in Texas, Arkansas and Louisiana. In Texas, a pipeline, with some exceptions, is required to operate as a common carrier and provide transportation without discrimination. Arkansas provides that all intrastate oil pipelines are common carriers, but it exercises light-handed regulation over petroleum pipelines. In Louisiana, all pipelines conveying petroleum from a point of origin within the state to a destination within the state are declared common carriers. The Louisiana Public Service Commission is empowered with the authority to establish reasonable rates and regulations for the transport of petroleum by a common carrier, mandating public tariffs and providing of transportation without discrimination. State commissions have generally not been aggressive in regulating common carrier pipelines, have generally not investigated the rates or practices of petroleum pipelines in the absence of shipper complaints, and generally resolve complaints informally. If the regulatory commissions in the states in which we operate change their policies and aggressively regulate the rates or terms of service of pipelines operating in those states, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Risks Relating to Our Partnership Structure Our general partner and its affiliates, including Delek, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our other common unitholders. Delek owns and controls our general partner and appoints all of the officers and directors of our general partner. All of the initial officers and a majority of the initial directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of Delek. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is beneficial to Delek. Conflicts of interest will arise between Delek and our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of Delek over our interests and the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others:•Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Delek to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, including whether to increase or decrease refinery production, whether to shut down or reconfigure a refinery or what markets to pursue or grow. The directors and officers of Delek have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of Delek, which may be contrary to our interests. Delek may choose to shift the focus of its investment and growth to areas not served by our assets. •Delek, as our primary customer, has an economic incentive to cause us not to seek higher service fees, even if such higher fees could be obtained in arm’s-length, third-party transactions. Furthermore, under our commercial agreements, Delek’s consent is required before we may enter into an agreement with any third party with respect to our assets that serve the El Dorado and Tyler Refineries, and Delek has an incentive to cause us not to pursue such third-party contracts in certain circumstances. •Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Delek, in resolving conflicts of interest. •All of the initial officers and a majority of the initial directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of Delek and will owe fiduciary duties to Delek. These officers will also devote significant time to the business of Delek and will be compensated by Delek accordingly. •Delek may be constrained by the terms of its debt instruments from taking actions, or refraining from taking actions, that may be in our best interests. 34•Our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limits our general partner’s liabilities and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. •Except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval. •Disputes may arise under our commercial agreements with Delek.•Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership units and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. •Our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion or investment capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units. In addition, the inability of Delek to suspend or reduce its obligations under its commercial agreements with us or to claim a force majeure event in certain circumstances until November 7, 2015 increases the likelihood of the conversion of the subordinated units. •Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us. •Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period.•Our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $25.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated or general partner units or to our general partner in respect of the incentive distribution rights. •Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. •Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations.•Our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 80% of the common units. •Our general partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us, including Delek’s obligations under the omnibus agreement and its commercial agreements with us. •Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us.•Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights without unitholder approval. •Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.Delek may compete with us. Delek may compete with us. Under our omnibus agreement, Delek and its affiliates has agreed not to engage in, whether by acquisition or otherwise, the business of owning or operating crude oil or refined products pipelines, terminals or storage facilities in the United States that are not within, directly connected to, substantially dedicated to, or otherwise an integral part of, any refinery owned, acquired or constructed by Delek. This restriction, however, does not apply to: •any assets that were owned by Delek upon the completion of the Offering (including replacements or expansions of those assets); •any asset or business that Delek acquires or constructs that has a fair market value of less than $5.0 million; and •any asset or business that Delek acquires or constructs that has a fair market value of $5.0 million or more if we have been offered the opportunity to purchase the asset or business for fair market value not later than six months after completion of such acquisition or construction, and we decline to do so. As a result, Delek has the ability to construct assets which directly compete with our assets. The limitations on the ability of Delek to compete with us are terminable by either party if Delek ceases to control our general partner. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers and directors and Delek. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or 35information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our common unitholders. Please read “Conflicts of Interest and Duties.” If you are not an eligible holder, your common units may be subject to redemption. We have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common and subordinated units. Eligible holders are limited partners whose (i) federal income tax status is not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the rates that can be charged by us on assets that are subject to regulation by FERC or an analogous regulatory body and (ii) nationality, citizenship or other related status would not create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property in which we have an interest, in each case as determined by our general partner with the advice of counsel. If you are not an Eligible Holder, in certain circumstances as set forth in our partnership agreement, your units may be redeemed by us at the then-current market price. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders and will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we intend to distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per-unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement, and we do not anticipate there being limitations in our new credit facility, on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. It may be difficult to serve process on or enforce a United States judgment against those members of the board of directors of our general partner who may reside in Israel. Certain of the directors of our general partner are able to and may in the future reside in the State of Israel. As a result, it may be difficult to serve legal process within the United States upon any of these persons. It also may be difficult to enforce, both in and outside the United States, judgments obtained in United States courts against these persons in any action, including actions based upon the civil liability provisions of United States federal or state securities laws, because a substantial portion of the assets of these directors is located outside of the United States. Furthermore, there is substantial doubt that the courts of the State of Israel would enter judgments in original actions brought in those courts predicated on U.S. federal or state securities laws. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replace those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which means that a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the partnership agreement does not provide for a clear course of action. This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include: •how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and its other affiliates; •whether to exercise its limited call right; •whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner; •how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns; •whether to exercise its registration rights; •whether to elect to reset target distribution levels; •whether to transfer the incentive distribution rights to a third party; and •whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement. 36By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder agrees to become bound by the provisions of the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement provides that: •whenever our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in their respective capacities, our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner and any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee), as applicable, is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the decision was in the best interests of our Partnership, and, except as specifically provided by our partnership agreement, will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity; •our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith; •our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and •our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement (including any duties to us or our unitholders) if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:◦approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; ◦approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates; ◦determined by the board of directors of our general partner to be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or ◦determined by the board of directors of our general partner to be fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner or its Conflicts Committee must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the third and fourth subbullets above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors of our general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the Partnership challenging such determination, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. The administrative services fee and reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce our cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner. Prior to making any distribution on our common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including Delek, for costs and expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Under the omnibus agreement, we will pay Delek an annual fee of $2.7 million and reimburse Delek and its subsidiaries for Delek’s provision of various centralized corporate services. Additionally, we will reimburse Delek for direct or allocated costs and expenses incurred on our behalf, including administrative costs, such as compensation expense for those persons who provide services necessary to run our business, and insurance expenses. We also expect to incur incremental annual general and administrative expense as a result of being a publicly traded partnership. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of available cash to pay cash distributions to our common unitholders. 37Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its board of directors. Rather, the board of directors of our general partner will be appointed by Delek. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent. Unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates, including Delek, own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding common and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. As of March 1, 2013, Delek owned 62.4% of our outstanding common and subordinated units. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on our common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect our common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over our subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable to us or any limited partner for actual fraud or willful misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our general partner because of unitholder dissatisfaction with the performance of our general partner in managing the Partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and conversion of all subordinated units to common units.Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by a provision of our partnership agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our general partner’s interest in us and the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of Delek to transfer all or a portion of its general partner interest or its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. Our general partner, or the new owner of our general partner, would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers of our general partner. The incentive distribution rights of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its incentive distribution rights. For example, a transfer of incentive distribution rights by our general partner could reduce the likelihood of Delek selling or contributing additional assets to us, as Delek would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interestsOur partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests, including limited partner interests that rank senior to the common units, that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: •our existing unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; •the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; •because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; 38•because the amount payable to holders of incentive distribution rights is based on a percentage of the total cash available for distribution, the distributions to holders of incentive distribution rights will increase even if the per-unit distribution on common units remains the same; •the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and •the market price of the common units may decline. Delek may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. Delek holds 2,799,258 common units and 11,999,258 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period and may convert earlier under certain circumstances. In addition, we have agreed to provide Delek with certain registration rights. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement permits our general partner to limit its liability, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of our common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any positive return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon any such sale of their units to Delek. At March 1, 2013, Delek owned approximately 2,799,258, or 23.3% of our outstanding common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units (other than upon the conversion of the subordinated units), Delek will indirectly own approximately 61.7% of our outstanding common units. Our general partner, or any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. The holder or holders of a majority of the incentive distribution rights, which is currently our general partner, have the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and such holders have received incentive distributions at the highest level to which they are entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters (and the amount of each such distribution did not exceed adjusted operating surplus for each such quarter), to reset the minimum quarterly distribution and the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution per unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. Our general partner has the right to transfer the incentive distribution rights at any time, in whole or in part, and any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights shall have the same rights as our general partner with respect to resetting target distributions.In the event of a reset of the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels, the holders of the incentive distribution rights will be entitled to receive, in the aggregate, the number of common units equal to that number of common units which would have entitled the holders to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. Our general partner will also be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain its general partner interest in us that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not otherwise be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit. It is possible, however, that our general partner or a transferee could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distribution payments based on target distribution levels that are less certain 39to be achieved in the then-current business environment. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels.Our unitholders' liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. The Partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Our unitholders could be held liable for any and all of our obligations as if they were general partners if a court or government agency were to determine that: •we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or •our unitholders' right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business.Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable both for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the Partnership that were known to the transferee at the time of transfer and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the Partnership agreement. Neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest nor liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. Our common units are listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have, and we do not intend to have, a majority of independent directors on our general partner’s board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, on this or any other tax matter affecting us. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35.0%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to such unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes there would be material reductions in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax 40purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of such additional tax on us by a state will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or an existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. From time to time members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. For example, one recent legislative proposal would eliminate the qualifying income exception upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any proposals will ultimately be enacted, but it is possible that a change in law could affect us and may, if enacted, be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Our unitholders’ share of our income will be taxable to them for U.S. federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because a unitholder will be treated as a partner to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder’s allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to it, which may require the payment of federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on such unitholder's share of our taxable income even if it receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest would likely reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel expressed herein or from the positions we take, and the IRS’s positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse effect on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS would be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs would likely reduce our cash available for distribution. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If any of our unitholders sells their common units, such unitholders must recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and such unitholder's tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of such unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income decrease such uniholder's tax basis in such unitholder's common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units such unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income if such unitholder sells such common units at a price greater than its tax basis in those common units, even if the price such unitholder receives is less than its original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale or other disposition of such unitholder's common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholder sell their common units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax 41on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each holder of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units held. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from a unitholder's sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to such unitholder's tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, however, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion with respect to whether our monthly convention for allocating taxable income and losses is permitted by existing Treasury Regulations. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, such unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, such unitholder may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Therefore, our unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common units. We will adopt certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for U.S. federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any 12-month period will result in the termination of our Partnership for federal income tax purposes. 42We will be considered to have technically terminated our Partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than 12 months of our taxable income or loss being includable in such unitholder's taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has recently announced a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief program whereby, if a publicly traded partnership that technically terminated requests publicly traded partnership technical termination relief and such relief is granted by the IRS, among other things, the Partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years.As a result of investing in our common units, our unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders may be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own property and conduct business in Arkansas, Louisiana, Tennessee and Texas. Arkansas and Louisiana impose a personal income tax on individuals, and each of the four states imposes an income or similar tax on corporations and certain other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own property or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance. We are subject to extensive tax laws and regulations, including federal, state and foreign income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted that could result in increased tax expenditures in the future. Many of these tax liabilities are subject to audits by the respective taxing authority. These audits may result in additional taxes as well as interest and penalties. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone. 