ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are significant factors known to us that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and from results predicted by forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made by us are qualified by the risks described below. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business is dependent on general economic conditions in our markets. Our revenues depend, in part, on discretionary spending by our customers. Pressure on discretionary income brought on by economic downturns and slow recoveries, including housing market declines, rising energy prices, and weak labor markets, may cause consumers to reduce the amount that they spend on discretionary items. If recovery from the current economic downturn continues to be slow or prolonged, our growth, prospects, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely impacted. General economic conditions and discretionary spending are beyond our control and are affected by, among other things: •consumer confidence in the economy; •unemployment trends; •consumer debt levels; •consumer credit availability; •the housing market; •gasoline and fuel prices; •interest rates and inflation; •price deflation, including due to low-cost imports; •slower rates of growth in real disposable personal income; •natural disasters; •national security concerns; •tax rates and tax policy; and •other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Increasing volatility in financial markets may cause some of the above factors to change with an even greater degree of frequency and magnitude than in the past. 6 Our ability to grow and remain profitable may be limited by direct or indirect competition in the retail tile industry, which is highly competitive. The retail tile industry in the United States is highly competitive. Participants in the tile industry compete primarily based on product variety, customer service, store location, and price. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete favorably with our competitors in these areas. Our store competitors include large national home centers (such as Home Depot and Lowe’s), regional and local specialty retailers of tile (such as Tile America, World of Tile, Century Tile, and Floor and Décor), factory direct stores (such as Dal-Tile and Florida Tile) and privately-owned, single-site stores. We also compete indirectly with companies that sell other types of floor coverings, including wood floors, carpet, and vinyl sheet. In the past, we have faced periods of heightened competition that materially affected our results of operations. Certain of our competitors have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more varied product offerings, and substantially greater financial and other resources than us. Accordingly, we may face periods of intense competition in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our planned growth and future results of operations. In addition, the barriers to entry into the retail tile industry are relatively low. New or existing retailers could enter our markets and increase the competition that we face. In addition, manufacturers and vendors of tile and related products, including those whose products we currently sell, could enter the U.S. retail tile market and start directly competing with us. Competition in existing and new markets may also prevent or delay our ability to gain relative market share. Any of the developments described above could have a material adverse effect on our planned growth and future results of operations. If we fail to successfully manage the challenges that our planned growth poses or encounter unexpected difficulties during our expansion, our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. One of our long term objectives is to increase revenues and profitability through market share leadership. Our ability to achieve market share leadership, however, is contingent upon our ability to open new stores and achieve operating results in new stores at the same level as our similarly situated current stores. There can be no assurance that we will be able to open stores in new markets at the rate required to achieve market leadership in such markets, identify and obtain favorable store sites, arrange favorable leases for stores, or obtain governmental and other third-party consents, permits, and licenses needed to open or operate stores in a timely manner, train and hire a sufficient number of qualified managers for new stores, attract a strong customer base and brand familiarity in new markets, or successfully compete with established retail tile stores in the new markets that we enter. Failure to open new stores in an effective and cost-efficient manner could place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to retailers who are more adept than us at managing these challenges, which, in turn, could negatively affect our overall operating results. Our same store sales fluctuate due to a variety of economic, operating, industry and environmental factors and may not be a fair indicator of our overall performance. Our same store sales have experienced fluctuations, which can be expected to continue. Numerous factors affect our same store sales results, including among others, the timing of new and relocated store openings, the relative proportion of new and relocated stores to mature stores, cannibalization resulting from the opening of new stores in existing markets, changes in advertising and other operating costs, the timing and level of markdowns, changes in our product mix, weather conditions, retail trends, the retail sales environment, economic conditions, inflation, the impact of competition, and our ability to execute our business strategy efficiently. As a result, same store sales or operating results may fluctuate, and may cause the price of our securities to fluctuate significantly. Therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our same store sales may not be a fair indicator of our overall operating performance. We intend to open additional stores in our existing markets, which may diminish sales by existing stores in those markets and strain our ability to find qualified personnel or divert our resources from our existing stores, negatively affecting our overall operating results. Our expansion strategy includes plans to open additional stores in our existing markets as part of our plan to open no fewer than 17 new stores in 2013. Because our stores typically draw customers from their local areas, additional stores may draw customers away from nearby existing stores and may cause same store sales performance at those existing stores to decline, which may adversely affect our overall operating results. In addition, our ability to open additional stores will be dependent on our ability to promote and/or recruit enough qualified field managers, store managers, assistant store managers, and sales associates. The time and effort required to train and supervise a large number of new managers and associates and integrate them into our culture may divert resources from our existing stores. If we are unable to profitably open additional stores in existing markets and limit the adverse impact of those new stores on existing stores, it may reduce our same store sales and overall operating results during the implementation of our expansion strategy. Our expansion strategy will be dependent upon, and limited by, the availability of adequate capital. Our expansion strategy will require additional capital for, among other purposes, opening new stores and entering new markets. Such capital expenditures will include researching real estate and consumer markets, lease, inventory, property and equipment costs, integration of new stores and markets into company-wide systems and programs, and other costs associated with new stores and market entry expenses and growth. If cash generated internally is insufficient to fund capital requirements, we will require additional debt or equity financing. Adequate financing may not be available or, if available, may not be available on terms satisfactory to us. In addition, our credit facility may limit the amount of capital expenditures that we may make annually, depending on our leverage ratio. If we fail to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future or we are unable to make capital expenditures under our credit facility, we could be forced to curtail our expansion strategies by reducing or delaying capital expenditures relating to new stores and new market entry. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fund our current plans for the opening of new stores or entry into new markets. 7 We depend on a number of suppliers, and any failure by any of them to supply us with products may impair our inventory and adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands, which could result in a decrease in revenues and/or gross margin. Our current suppliers may not continue to sell products to us on acceptable terms or at all, and we may not be able to establish relationships with new suppliers to ensure delivery of products in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us. We do not have long-term contractual supply agreements with our suppliers which obligate them to supply us with products at specified quantities or prices. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on terms acceptable to us in the future. We are also dependent on suppliers for assuring the quality of merchandise supplied to us. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise in the future or the loss of one or more of our suppliers and our failure to replace them may harm our relationship with our customers and our ability to attract new customers, resulting in a decrease in net sales. We source the approximately 4,500 products that we stock and sell from over 115 domestic and international vendors. We source a large number of those products from foreign manufacturers, including approximately 52% of our products from a group of 10 suppliers located primarily in Asia. We generally take title to these products overseas and are responsible for arranging shipment to our distribution centers. Financial instability among key vendors, political instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, and transport capacity and costs are beyond our control and could negatively impact our business if they seriously disrupt the movement of products through our supply chain or increased the costs of our products. If our suppliers do not use ethical business practices or comply with applicable laws and regulations, our reputation could be harmed due to negative publicity and we could be subject to legal risk. We do not control the operations of our suppliers. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that our suppliers will comply with applicable environmental and labor laws and regulations or operate in a legal, ethical, and responsible manner. Violation of environmental, labor or other laws by our suppliers or their failure to operate in a legal, ethical, or responsible manner, could reduce demand for our products if, as a result of such violation or failure, we attract negative publicity. Further, such conduct could expose us to legal risks as a result of the purchase of products from non-compliant suppliers. If customers are unable to obtain third-party financing at satisfactory rates, sales of our products could be materially adversely affected. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations have been, and may continue to be affected, by various economic factors. Deterioration in the current economic environment could lead to reduced consumer and business spending, including by our customers. It may also cause customers to shift their spending to products that we either do not sell or that generate lower profitably for us. Further, reduced access to credit may adversely affect the ability of consumers to purchase our products. This potential reduction in access to credit may adversely impact our ability to offer customers credit card financing through third party credit providers on terms similar to those offered currently, or at all. In addition, economic conditions, including decreases in access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructuring, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, which may adversely impact our industry, business, and results of operations. Any failure by us to successfully anticipate consumer trends may lead to loss of consumer acceptance of our products, resulting in reduced revenues. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing trends and consumer demands in a timely manner. If we fail to identify and respond to emerging trends, consumer acceptance of our merchandise and our image with current or potential customers may be harmed, which could reduce our revenues. Additionally, if we misjudge market trends, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to reduce the sales price of such products, which would have a negative impact on our gross profit and cash flow. Conversely, shortages of products that prove popular could also reduce our revenues. We depend on a few key employees, and if we lose the services of certain of our executive officers, we may not be able to run our business effectively. Our future success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key executive, merchandising, marketing, and sales personnel. Our executive officers include Robert Rucker, president and chief executive officer; Timothy Clayton, chief financial officer; Carl Randazzo, senior vice president — retail; and Joseph Kinder, senior vice president — operations. We have employment and non-compete arrangements with each of Messrs. Rucker, Clayton, Randazzo, and Kinder. If any of these executive officers ceases to be employed by us, we would have to hire additional qualified personnel. Our ability to successfully hire other experienced and qualified executive officers cannot be assured, and may be difficult because we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our suppliers and other companies operating in our industry. As a result, the loss or unavailability of any of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on us. 8 We have entered into a $100 million credit facility. The burden of this additional debt could adversely affect us, make us more vulnerable to adverse economic or industry conditions, and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations or from funding our expansion strategy. In connection with the Business Combination, we issued promissory notes in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $70 million. We have entered into a credit facility with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and The Huntington National Bank, as syndication agent, for $100 million, including a term loan of $25 million and a revolving credit facility of $75 million, which we have used, in part, to repay the promissory notes issued in connection with the Business Combination. The terms of our credit facility and the burden of the indebtedness incurred thereunder could have serious consequences for us, such as: •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, expansion strategy, or other needs; •placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; •increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility in planning for, adverse changes in economic, industry, and competitive conditions; and •increasing our vulnerability to increases in interest rates if borrowings under the credit facility are subject to variable interest rates. Our credit facility also contains negative covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: •incur indebtedness; •create liens; •engage in mergers or consolidations; •sell assets (including pursuant to sale and leaseback transactions); •pay dividends and distributions or repurchase our capital stock; •make investments, acquisitions, loans, or advances; •make capital expenditures; •repay, prepay, or redeem certain indebtedness; •engage in certain transactions with affiliates; •enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions; •enter into agreements limiting the ability to create liens; •amend our organizational document in a way that has a material effect on the lenders or administrative agent under our credit facility; and •change our lines of business. 9 A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under our credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lender could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, or seek amendments to our debt agreements that would provide for terms more favorable to such lender and that we may have to accept under the circumstances. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lender under our credit facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If we fail to hire, train, and retain qualified store managers, sales associates, and other employees, our enhanced customer service could be compromised and we could lose sales to our competitors. A key element of our competitive strategy is to provide product expertise to our customers through our extensively trained, commissioned sales associates. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel and managers as needed in the future, including qualified sales personnel, our level of customer service may decline, which may decrease our revenues and profitability. If we are unable to renew or replace current store leases or if we are unable to enter into leases for additional stores on favorable terms, or if one or more of our current leases is terminated prior to expiration of its stated term and we cannot find suitable alternate locations, our growth and profitability could be negatively impacted. We currently lease all of our store locations. Many of our current leases provide us with the unilateral option to renew for several additional rental periods at specific rental rates. Our ability to re-negotiate favorable terms on an expiring lease or to negotiate favorable terms for a suitable alternate location, and our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms for additional store locations, could depend on conditions in the real estate market, competition for desirable properties, our relationships with current and prospective landlords, or on other factors that are not within our control. Any or all of these factors and conditions could negatively impact our growth and profitability. Compliance with laws or changes in existing or new laws and regulations or regulatory enforcement priorities could adversely affect our business. We must comply with various laws and regulations at the local, regional, state, federal, and international levels. These laws and regulations change frequently and such changes can impose significant costs and other burdens of compliance on our business and vendors. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new legislation that affect employment/labor, trade, product safety, transportation/logistics, energy costs, health care, tax, or environmental issues, or compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in enforcement priorities by governmental agencies charged with enforcing existing laws and regulations can increase our cost of doing business. We may also be subject to audits by various taxing authorities. Changes in tax laws in any of the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, or adverse outcomes from tax audits that we may be subject to in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate, could result in an unfavorable change in our effective tax rate, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 10 As our stores are generally concentrated in the mid-western and mid-Atlantic regions of the United States, we are subject to regional risks. We have a high concentration of stores in the mid-western and mid-Atlantic regions. If these markets individually or collectively suffer an economic downturn or other significant adverse event, there could be an adverse impact on same store sales, revenues, and profitability, and the ability to implement our planned expansion program. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption in these markets due to fire, tornado, hurricane, or any other calamity could damage inventory and could result in decreased revenues. Our results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in raw material and energy costs. Our results may be affected by the prices of the materials used in the manufacture of tile, setting and maintenance materials, and related accessories that we sell. These prices may fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including: oil prices, changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates, and government regulation. In addition, energy costs have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may result in an increase in our transportation costs for distribution from the manufacturer to our distribution center and from our regional distribution centers to our retail stores, utility costs for our distribution and manufacturing centers and retail stores, and overall costs to purchase products from our vendors. We may not be able to adjust the prices of our products, especially in the short-term, to recover these cost increases in raw materials and energy. A continual rise in raw material and energy costs could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to provide timely delivery to our customers, and any disruption in our delivery capabilities or our related planning and control processes may adversely affect our operating results. Our success is due in part to our ability to deliver products quickly to our customers, which relies on successful planning and distribution infrastructure, including ordering, transportation and receipt processing, and the ability of suppliers to meet distribution requirements. Our ability to maintain this success depends on the continued identification and implementation of improvements to our planning processes, distribution infrastructure, and supply chain. We also need to ensure that our distribution infrastructure and supply chain keep pace with our anticipated growth and increased number of stores. The cost of these enhanced processes could be significant and any failure to maintain, grow, or improve them could adversely affect our operating results. Our business could also be adversely affected if there are delays in product shipments due to freight difficulties, strikes, or other difficulties at our suppliers’ principal transport providers, or otherwise. Damage, destruction, or disruption of our distribution and manufacturing centers could significantly impact our operations and impede our ability to produce and distribute our products. We rely on three regional distribution centers to supply products to all of our retail stores. In addition, we rely on our manufacturing centers, located at our distribution centers, to manufacture our setting and maintenance materials. If any of these facilities, or the inventory stored in these facilities, were damaged or destroyed by fire or other causes, our distribution or manufacturing processes would be disrupted, which could cause significant delays in delivery. This could negatively impact our ability to stock our stores and deliver products to our customers, and cause our revenues and operating results to deteriorate. Our ability to control labor costs is limited, which may negatively affect our business. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates, the impact of legislation or regulations governing healthcare benefits or labor relations, such as the Employee Free Choice Act, and health and other insurance costs. If our labor and/or benefit costs increase, we may not be able to hire or maintain qualified personnel to the extent necessary to execute our competitive strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business exposes us to personal injury and product liability claims, which could result in adverse publicity and harm to our brands and our results of operations. We are from time to time subject to claims due to the injury of an individual in our stores or on our property. In addition, we may be subject to product liability claims for the products that we sell. Our purchase orders generally do not require the manufacturer to indemnify us against any product liability claims arising from products purchased by us. Any personal injury or product liability claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming and costly to defend, resulting in adverse publicity or damage to our reputation, and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, any negative publicity involving our vendors, employees, and other parties who are not within our control could negatively impact us. 11 Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or we are unable to protect the integrity and security of our customers’ information. We depend upon our information technology systems in the conduct of all aspects of our operations. If our information technology systems fail to perform as anticipated, we could experience difficulties in virtually any area of our operations, including but not limited to replenishing inventories or delivering products to store locations in response to consumer demands. It is also possible that our competitors could develop better online platforms than us, which could negatively impact our internet sales. Any of these or other systems-related problems could, in turn, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store certain personal information from individuals, such as our customers and suppliers, and we process customer payment card and check information. We also store credit card information and other personal information about our customers and we are currently assessing our compliance laws associated with the collection, security, and handling of personal information and intend to make any required changes in our systems and policies in response to this assessment. Our failure to comply with such laws, a breach of our network security and systems, or other events that cause the loss or public disclosure of, or access by third parties to, our customers’ personal information could have serious negative consequences for our business, including possible fines, penalties and damages, an unwillingness of customers to provide us with their credit card or payment information, harm to our reputation and brand, loss of our ability to accept and process customer credit card orders, and time-consuming and expensive litigation. Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our computer systems and, if successful, misappropriate personal information, payment card or check information, or confidential business information. In addition, an employee, contractor, or other third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and may originate from less regulated or remote areas around the world. As a result, we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Many states have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether successful or not, would harm our reputation and could cause the loss of customers. We may not be able to timely and effectively implement controls and procedures required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that are applicable to us. We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The standards required for us as a public company under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are significantly more stringent than those required of us as a privately-held company. Management may not be able to effectively and timely implement controls and procedures that adequately respond to the increased regulatory compliance and reporting requirements that are applicable to us. If management is not able to implement the additional requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, management may not be able to assess whether our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, which may subject us to adverse regulatory consequences and could harm investor confidence and the market price of our securities. Prior to the Business Combination, we were not required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As such, we did not make an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting nor did we engage our auditors to express, nor have our auditors expressed an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011, our auditors informed us that they had identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting related to deficiencies in the financial statement close process. Under the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal controls over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis. We were able to remediate our historical material weakness during 2012. The primary factors contributing to the material weakness in our financial statement close process were: •We lacked sufficient personnel with requisite competencies within our finance function for a company of our size and complexity. •We did not maintain financial close processes, procedures, and reporting systems that were adequately designed to support the accurate and timely reporting of our financial results. 12 During 2012, we hired a chief financial officer who initiated an analysis of our internal accounting controls and procedures. This process has resulted in a number of changes to our processes and procedures that have served to strengthen our controls over financial reporting. We also remedied the historical material weakness identified by our auditors in connection with their audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 by designing and implementing a formalized financial reporting process that includes: conducting properly prepared, supported, and reviewed balance sheet reconciliations; conducting properly prepared, supported, and reviewed journal entries; following a properly completed and approved financial close checklist; and abiding by a financial reporting calendar. We have effectively remediated the material weakness as of December 31, 2012. As disclosed in Item 9A of this Form 10-K, in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012, management identified that previously-issued financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012 contained a misstatement relating to our accounting for our outstanding common stock purchase warrants. As a result of the restatement, a material weakness was identified in our internal controls relating to our identification and analysis of the complex accounting, and financial reporting attributes associated with certain non-routine transactions such as our common stock purchase warrant agreements, including not utilizing qualified external experts to supplement internal resources. We plan to implement additional procedures to remediate this material weakness. These additional procedures will include developing common processes for identifying non-routine events and transactions that may require the involvement of subject matter experts; developing a common methodology for assessing the accounting, disclosure and reporting implications surrounding non-routine transactions; increasing our critical analysis of the guidance and recommendations provided by subject matter experts; and developing an appropriate concluding framework that enables management to consider all relevant input in arriving at a conclusion. As we continue to evaluate and work to improve our internal control processes, we may determine that additional measures are necessary to address the control deficiency or may modify the remediation plan described above. If not remediated, this material weakness could result in future material misstatements to our financial statements. If another material weakness were to occur in the future, we may be unable to produce accurate and timely financial statements. Any failure to timely provide required financial information could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and the market value of our securities. Concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Our directors, executive officers, and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially hold a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, have the ability to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our securities. Future sales of our common stock may cause the market price of our securities to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. In connection with the Business Combination and the underwritten public offering of our common stock by certain of our stockholders in December 2012, our officers, directors and certain stockholders, who, immediately following the Business Combination, collectively held an aggregate of 34,305,233 shares of our common stock, agreed to refrain from selling such shares for periods of time that have now passed. As a result, our directors, officers and the selling stockholders in the December 2012 underwritten public offering may sell their shares at any time, subsequent to compliance with applicable securities laws. The presence of these additional securities trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the former direct and indirect holders of equity interests in The Tile Shop and the JWCAC founders hold registration rights, subject to certain limitations, with respect to our common stock that they received in the Business Combination pursuant to a registration rights agreement. The holders of a majority in interest of our common stock held by the former direct and indirect holders of equity interests in The Tile Shop will be entitled to require us, on up to four occasions, to register under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, the shares of common stock that they received in the Business Combination. The holders of a majority in interest of our common stock held by the JWCAC founders will be entitled to require us, on up to two occasions, to register under the Securities Act the shares of common stock that they received in the Business Combination, and any shares that may be issued pursuant to the exercise of certain warrants held by them. The presence of these additional securities trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Although our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the continued listing standards. The NASDAQ Global Market may delist our common stock from trading on its exchange for failure to meet the continued listing standards. If our common stock were delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, we and our stockholders could face significant material adverse consequences including: •a limited availability of market quotations for our common stock; •a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” would require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; •a limited amount of analyst coverage; and •a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. 13 The market price of our securities may decline and/or be volatile. Fluctuations in the price of our securities could contribute to the loss of all or part of your investment. Prior to the Business Combination, there had not been a public market for our securities or The Tile Shop’s securities, and trading in JWCAC’s securities had not been active. An active, liquid, and orderly market for our securities may not be sustained and the trading price of our securities could be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Any of the factors listed below could have a material adverse effect on your investment in our securities and our securities may trade at prices significantly below the price that you paid for them. In such circumstances, the trading price of our securities may not recover and may experience a further decline. Factors affecting the trading price of our securities may include: •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; •changes in the market’s expectations about our operating results; •the effects of seasonality on our business cycle; •success of competitive retailers; •our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period; •changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning us, the housing market, the retail specialty tile market, or the retail market in general; •operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; •our ability to market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; •changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; •commencement of, or involvement in, litigation involving us; •changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; •the volume of shares of our common stock available for public sale; •any major change in our board of directors or management; •sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our directors, executive officers, or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur; and •general economic and political conditions such as recessions, interest rates, fuel prices, international currency fluctuations, and acts of war or terrorism. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our securities irrespective of our operating performance. The NASDAQ Global Market and the stock market in general have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the particular companies affected. The trading prices and valuations of these securities, and of our securities, may not be predictable. A loss of investor confidence in the market for retail securities or the securities of other companies that investors perceive to be similar to us could depress the price of our securities regardless of our business, prospects, financial conditions, or results of operations. A decline in the market price of our securities also could adversely affect our ability to issue additional securities and our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the price and trading volume of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors. If any of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our common stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. If any analyst who covers us were to cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our common stock price or trading volume to decline. 14 The exercise of warrants to purchase shares of our common stock will increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our existing stockholders. As of December 31, 2012, there were outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 17,485,495 shares of our common stock. As described in more detail in Part II, Item 5 of this 10-K, since December 31, 2012, an aggregate of 5,297,124 warrants have been exercised and an aggregate of 3,609,171 shares have been issued upon such exercises. To the extent additional warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to the existing holders of our common stock and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our management will have broad discretion over the use of the proceeds that we receive from the exercise of the warrants to purchase shares of our common stock and might not apply the proceeds in ways that increase the value of our securities. Our management will have broad discretion to use the proceeds that we receive from the exercise of warrants to purchase shares of our common stock, and you will be relying on the judgment of our management regarding the application of these proceeds. Our management might not apply these proceeds in ways that increase the value of our securities. We intend to use these proceeds to repurchase outstanding warrants in order to manage share dilution and general corporate purposes, including working capital, sales and marketing activities, general and administrative matters, repayment of indebtedness, and capital expenditures. We may also use a portion of these proceeds to acquire or invest in complementary products or businesses, or to repurchase outstanding stock or warrants. Until we use these proceeds, we plan to invest them, and these investments may not yield a favorable rate of return. If we do not invest or apply the proceeds that we receive from the exercise of warrants in ways that enhance stockholder value, we may fail to achieve expected financial results, which could cause the price of our securities to decline. You will not have the opportunity to influence our decisions on how we use the proceeds that we receive from the exercise of warrants. We may redeem certain outstanding warrants to purchase shares of our common stock prior to their exercise at a time that it is disadvantageous to the holders thereof, thereby making such warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem the outstanding warrants to purchase shares of our common stock at any time prior to their expiration at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that (i) the last reported sale price of our common stock equals or exceeds $18.00 per share for any 20 trading days within the 30 trading-day period ending on the third business day before we send the notice of such redemption and (ii) on the date that we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time all such warrants are redeemed, there is an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is available. Redemption of such warrants could force the holders thereof: •to exercise their warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for them to do so; •to sell their warrants at the then-current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold their warrants; or •to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of their warrants. Registration of the shares of common stock underlying outstanding warrants and a current prospectus may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants and, accordingly, we may be required to permit holders of such warrants to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis. Under the agreement governing certain of our outstanding warrants to purchase shares of our common stock, we are obligated to use our best efforts to maintain the effectiveness of a registration statement under the Securities Act for the shares of common stock issuable exercise of such warrants, and a current prospectus relating thereto, until the expiration of the warrants in accordance with the provisions of the warrant agreement. In addition, we are obligated to use our best efforts to register the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of a warrant under the blue sky laws of the states of residence of the exercising warrant holder to the extent an exemption is not available. In connection with the Business Combination, we registered the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants on our registration statement on Form S-4 and intend to continue the effectiveness of such registration statement by filing any necessary post-effective amendments thereto. Nevertheless, if the effectiveness of such registration statement is not maintained, we will be required to permit holders to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis under certain circumstances specified in the warrant agreement. 15 Our recent restatement to classify our outstanding warrants to purchase common stock as a derivative liability has imposed limitations on our ability to pay dividends and purchase our common stock and could adversely affect our ability to enter into new, or maintain existing, leases, our credit agreement and other material agreements. As disclosed on our Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 20, 2013, we are required, pursuant to Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Subtopic 815-40, Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity, to classify our outstanding common stock purchase warrants (the “warrants”) as a derivative liability and to calculate the change in the fair value of the warrants at the end of each fiscal quarter. The classification of the warrants as a derivative liability resulted in the value of our total liabilities exceeding the value of our total assets, which may cause us to be considered technically insolvent. Under Delaware law, dividends on capital stock may only be paid from "surplus," which is defined as the amount by which our total assets exceeds the sum of our total liabilities, including contingent liabilities, and the amount of our capital; if there is no surplus, cash dividends on capital stock may only be paid from our net profits for the then current and/or the preceding fiscal year. In addition, under Delaware law, we may not purchase or redeem our outstanding capital stock when our capital is impaired, which is the case when we are technically insolvent. Accordingly, our ability to pay dividends and to purchase or redeem our outstanding capital stock may be limited under Delaware law. Our technical insolvency may also have adverse effects on our ability to enter into new, or remain out of default under existing, material agreements and on other aspects of our business, such as by limiting our ability to procure additional financing on reasonable terms. We are a holding company with no business operations of our own and depend on cash flow from The Tile Shop to meet our obligations. We are a holding company with no business operations of our own or material assets other than the equity of our subsidiaries. All of our operations are conducted by our subsidiary, The Tile Shop. As a holding company, we will require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements. The terms of any credit facility may restrict our subsidiaries from paying dividends and otherwise transferring cash or other assets to us. If there is an insolvency, liquidation, or other reorganization of any of our subsidiaries, our stockholders likely will have no right to proceed against their assets. Creditors of those subsidiaries will be entitled to payment in full from the sale or other disposal of the assets of those subsidiaries before us, as an equity holder, would be entitled to receive any distribution from that sale or disposal. If The Tile Shop is unable to pay dividends or make other payments to us when needed, we will be unable to satisfy our obligations. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include: •a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; •no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; •the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; •the ability of our board of directors to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; •a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; •the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; 16 •limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; •controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of stockholder meetings; •providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings of stockholders and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings of stockholders; •providing that directors may be removed prior to the expiration of their terms by stockholders only for cause; and •advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of us or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 