Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto, before you decide whether to make an investment in our securities. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the net asset value of our common stock and the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Economic Conditions Global economic, political and market conditions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. The current worldwide financial market situation, as well as various social and political tensions in the United States and around the world, may continue to contribute to increased market volatility, may have long-term effects on the United States and worldwide financial markets, and may cause further economic uncertainties or deterioration in the United States and worldwide. Since 2010, several European Union, or EU, countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Spain, and Portugal, have faced budget issues, some of which may have negative long-term effects for the economies of those countries and other EU countries. There is continued concern about national-level support for the Euro and the accompanying coordination of fiscal and wage policy among European Economic and Monetary Union member countries. In addition, the fiscal policy of foreign nations, such as China, may have a severe impact on the worldwide and United States financial markets. We do not know how long the financial markets will continue to be affected by these events and cannot predict the effects of these or similar events in the future on the United States economy and securities markets or on our investments. We monitor developments and seek to manage our investments in a manner consistent with achieving our investment objective, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure We have a limited operating history as a business development company. Prior to December 2012, we did not operate as a business development company or as a RIC. As a result, we are subject to business risks and uncertainties, including the risk that we will not maintain our status as a business development company or achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. The lack of experience of our Investment Adviser in operating under the constraints imposed on us as a business development company and RIC may hinder the achievement of our investment objective. The 1940 Act and the Code impose numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies and RICs that do not apply to other investment vehicles managed by H.I.G. Capital and its affiliates. Business development companies are required, for example, to invest at least 70% of their total assets in qualifying assets, including U.S. private or thinly-traded public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high-quality debt instruments that mature in one year or less from the date of investment. Subject to certain exceptions for follow-on investments and distressed companies, an investment in an issuer that has outstanding securities listed on a national securities exchange may be treated as a qualifying asset only if such issuer has a common equity market capitalization that is less than $250 million at the time of such investment. Moreover, qualification for taxation as a RIC requires satisfaction of source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements. Neither we nor our Investment Adviser has long-term experience operating under these constraints, which may hinder our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objective. As a result, we cannot assure you that our Investment Adviser will be able to operate our business under these constraints. Any failure to do so could subject us to enforcement action by the SEC, cause us to fail to satisfy the requirements associated with RIC status, cause us to fail the 70% test described above or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could be found to be in violation of the 1940 Act provisions applicable to business development companies and possibly lose our status as a business development company, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position) or could require us to dispose of investments at inopportune times in order to comply with the 1940 Act. If we need to dispose of such investments quickly, it may be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms, or at all. For example, we may have difficulty in finding a buyer and, even if we do find a buyer, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss or otherwise for less than we could have received if we were able to sell them at a later time. We depend upon key personnel of H.I.G. Capital and its affiliates. We are an externally managed business development company, and therefore we do not have any internal management capacity or employees. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our Investment Adviser to achieve our investment objective. We expect that our Investment Adviser will evaluate, negotiate, structure, close and monitor our investments in accordance with the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement. Our Investment Adviser is an affiliate of H.I.G. Capital and depends upon access to the investment professionals and other resources of H.I.G. Capital and its affiliates to fulfill its obligations to us under the Investment Advisory Agreement. WhiteHorse Advisers also depends upon H.I.G. Capital to obtain access to deal flow generated by the professionals of H.I.G. Capital. Under the Staffing Agreement, an affiliate of H.I.G. Capital has agreed to provide our Investment Adviser with the resources necessary to fulfill these obligations. The Staffing Agreement provides that the affiliate will make available to WhiteHorse Advisers experienced investment professionals and access to the senior investment personnel of H.I.G. Capital for purposes of evaluating, negotiating, structuring, closing and monitoring our investments. We are not a party to the Staffing Agreement and cannot assure you that the affiliate will fulfill its obligations under the agreement. If the affiliate fails to perform, we cannot assure you that WhiteHorse Advisers will enforce the Staffing Agreement, that such agreement will not be terminated by either party or that we will continue to have access to the investment professionals of H.I.G. Capital and its affiliates or their market knowledge and deal flow. We depend upon the senior professionals of H.I.G. Capital to maintain relationships with potential sources of lending opportunities, and we intend to rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. We cannot assure you that these individuals will continue to indirectly provide investment advice to us. If these individuals, including the members of our investment committee, do not maintain their existing relationships with H.I.G. Capital, maintain existing relationships or develop new relationships with other sources of investment opportunities, we may not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom the senior professionals of H.I.G. Capital have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities. Therefore, we cannot assure you that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us. Our business model depends to a significant extent upon H.I.G. Capital’s proprietary deal-flow network of informal and unconventional potential deal sources in the small-cap business community. Any inability of H.I.G. Capital to maintain or develop this network, or the failure of this network to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business. We depend upon H.I.G. Capital to maintain its extensive, proprietary small-cap deal sourcing network, and we expect to rely to a significant extent upon this network to provide us with investment opportunities. This network of informal and unconventional deal sources in the small-cap business community includes accountants, attorneys, brokers, insurance agents, consultants and financial advisors who have access to small-cap companies. If H.I.G. Capital fails to maintain such sourcing network, or to develop new relationships with other sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom H.I.G. Capital has relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and we can offer no assurance that these relationships will generate investment opportunities for us in the future. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS If our Investment Adviser is unable to manage our investments effectively, we may be unable to achieve our investment objective. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our ability to manage our business and to grow our business. This depends, in turn, on our Investment Adviser’s ability to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. This, in turn, depends on the ability of H.I.G. Capital’s investment professionals to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. The achievement of our investment objective on a cost-effective basis will depend upon our Investment Adviser’s execution of our investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and our access to financing on acceptable terms. Our Investment Adviser has substantial responsibilities under the Investment Advisory Agreement. The personnel of H.I.G. Capital who are made available to our Investment Adviser under the Staffing Agreement are engaged in other business activities and may be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies, either of which could distract them, divert their time and attention or otherwise cause them not to dedicate a significant portion of their time to our businesses which could slow our rate of investment. Any failure to manage our business and our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not replicate the historical results achieved by other entities managed or sponsored by members of our investment committee or by H.I.G. Capital or its affiliates. Our primary focus in making investments generally differs from that of many of the investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles that are or have been managed by members of our investment committee or sponsored by H.I.G. Capital or its affiliates. In addition, investors in our common stock do not acquire an interest in any such investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles that are or have been managed by members of our investment committee or sponsored by H.I.G. Capital or its affiliates. We cannot assure you that we will replicate the historical results achieved by members of the investment committee, and we caution you that our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by them in prior periods. Additionally, all or a portion of the prior results may have been achieved in particular market conditions which may never be repeated. Moreover, current or future market volatility and regulatory uncertainty may have an adverse impact on our future performance. The highly competitive market for investment opportunities in which we operate may limit our investment opportunities. A number of entities continue to compete with us to make investments in small-cap companies. We compete with public and private funds, including other business development companies, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, specialty finance companies, hedge funds and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Additionally, as competition for investment opportunities has increased, alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds and collateralized loan obligations, have invested in small-cap companies. As a result of these new entrants, competition for investment opportunities in small-cap companies could intensify. Many of our potential competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. Participants in our industry compete on several factors, including price, flexibility in transaction structuring, customer service, reputation, market knowledge and speed in decision-making. We do not intend to compete primarily based on the interest rates we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that are lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. However, if we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may reduce our net investment income and increase our risk of credit loss. We have elected to be treated as a RIC and intend to qualify annually for such treatment. If we are unable to qualify as a RIC, we will be subject to corporate-level income tax. We have elected to be treated as a RIC under the Code and intend to qualify annually for such treatment. To qualify as a RIC under the Code and obtain RIC tax benefits, we must meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least equal to 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short term capital gains in excess of realized net short term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis. To the extent we use preferred stock or debt financing in the future, we may be subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under preferred stock or loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify for RIC tax benefits. If we fail to make sufficient distributions, as a result of contractual restrictions in the Credit Facility, Unsecured Term Loan or otherwise, we may fail to qualify for such benefits and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because we anticipate that most of our investments will be in the debt of relatively illiquid small-cap private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify for RIC tax benefits for any reason and remain or become subject to corporate-level income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. Our returns will be reduced by any corporate income tax that our subsidiaries pay. We may be required to recognize certain income and fees indirectly through one or more entities treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such corporations will be required to pay corporate income tax on their earnings, which ultimately will reduce our return on such income and fees. In addition, we may invest in partnerships, including qualified publicly traded partnerships and limited liability companies treated as partnerships for tax purposes, which may result in our being subject to state, local or foreign income, franchise or withholding liabilities. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or PIK interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discount, which could be significant relative to our overall investment assets, and increases in loan balances as a result of PIK interest will be included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we do not receive in cash. In addition, after the expiration of the reinvestment period under the Credit Facility on December 23, 2018, we must use asset sales and repayment proceeds, if any (including any realized gains), to pay down any outstanding debt and certain other amounts prior to distributing cash from WhiteHorse Credit to us. Also, if we do not meet certain coverage tests under the Credit Facility or if an event of default and acceleration occurs under the Credit Facility, then income and capital gains which would otherwise be distributable by us to our stockholders could be diverted to pay down debt or other amounts due under the Credit Facility. As a result, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement to distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to obtain RIC tax benefits. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax benefits and thus be subject to corporate level income tax. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS PIK interest payments we receive will increase our assets under management and, as a result, will increase the amount of base management fees payable by us to our Investment Adviser. Certain of our debt investments contain provisions providing for the payment of PIK interest, which increases the loan balance of the underlying loan in lieu of receiving cash interest, causing interest to compound on such higher loan balance. PIK interest increases our assets under management and, because the base management fee that we pay to our Investment Adviser is based on the value of our consolidated gross assets, PIK interest increases the base management fee we pay. This increase in interest income from the higher loan balance increases our pre-incentive fee net investment income and the incentive fees that we pay to our Investment Adviser. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company, including those related to the issuance of senior securities, will affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional debt or equity capital. We expect that we will require a substantial amount of capital. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted as a business development company to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this ratio. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness. If we issue senior securities, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. If we issue preferred stock, such securities would rank “senior” to common stock in our capital structure, and preferred stockholders would have separate voting rights, dividend and liquidation rights and possibly other rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those granted to holders of our common stock. Furthermore, the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might otherwise result in your receiving a premium price for your common stock or otherwise be in your best interest. Our board of directors may decide to issue common stock to finance our operations rather than issuing debt or other senior securities. As a business development company, we are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below current net asset value per share. We may, however, issue or sell our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock, or sell warrants, options or rights to acquire such common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our board of directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of us and our stockholders, and if our stockholders approve such sale within the preceding 12 months. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). On August 3, 2015, our stockholders approved a proposal authorizing us, with the approval of our board of directors, to sell shares of our common stock during the next 12 months at a price below the then-current net asset value per share, subject to certain limitations as described in the proxy statement for our annual meeting of stockholders. We also may conduct rights offerings at prices per share less than the net asset value per share, subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, and our stockholders may experience dilution. In addition to issuing securities to raise capital as described above, we have securitized, and may in the future seek to securitize, our loans to generate cash for funding new investments. To securitize loans, we may create one or more wholly owned subsidiaries and sell and contribute a pool of loans to such subsidiaries. This could include the sale or other issuance of debt by such subsidiaries on a non-recourse basis to purchasers who we would expect to be willing to accept a lower interest rate to invest in investment grade-rated debt secured by such loan pools, and we would retain all or a portion of the equity in any such subsidiary. An inability to securitize part of our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business, fully execute our business strategy and increase our earnings. Moreover, the successful securitization of part 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS of our loan portfolio might expose us to losses as the loans we are not able to securitize will tend to be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses. Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a business development company would reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not remain a business development company, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject us to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act and, correspondingly, decrease our operating flexibility. We intend to continue to finance our investments with borrowed money, which will magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us. The use of leverage, including through the issuance of senior securities, magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested. We have incurred leverage in the past and currently incur leverage through the Credit Facility, the Unsecured Term Loan and the Senior Notes and, from time to time, intend to incur additional leverage to the extent permitted under the 1940 Act. The use of leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique and increases the risks associated with investing in our securities. In the future, we may borrow from, and issue senior securities, to banks, insurance companies and other lenders. Holders of these senior securities will have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders, and we would expect such holders to seek recovery against our assets in the event of a default. WhiteHorse Credit has pledged, and expects to continue to pledge, all or substantially all of its assets. WhiteHorse Credit has granted, and may in the future grant, a security interest in all or a portion of its assets under the Credit Facility. In addition, under the terms of the Credit Facility, we must use the net proceeds of any investments that we sell to repay amounts then due with respect to our debt and certain other amounts owing under the Credit Facility before applying such net proceeds to other uses, such as distributing them to our stockholders. We may pledge up to 100% of our assets and may grant a security interest in all of our assets under the terms of any debt instruments into which we may enter. In addition, under the terms of any credit facility or other debt instrument we enter into, we are likely to be required by its terms to use the net proceeds of any investments that we sell to repay a portion of the amount borrowed under such facility or instrument before applying such net proceeds to any other uses. If the value of our assets decreases, leverage would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged, thereby magnifying losses or eliminating our equity stake in a leveraged investment. Similarly, any decrease in our revenue or income will cause our net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline would also negatively affect our ability to make distributions on our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to service our debt will depend largely on our financial performance and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. In addition, our common stockholders will bear the burden of any increase in our expenses as a result of our use of leverage, including interest expenses and any increase in the management fee payable to our Investment Adviser. As a business development company, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which include all of our borrowings and any preferred stock that we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. If this ratio declines below 200%, we cannot incur additional debt and could be required to sell a portion of our investments to repay some debt when it is disadvantageous to do so. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations, and we may not be able to make distributions. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on our Investment Adviser’s and our board of directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our borrowings under the Credit Facility, the Unsecured Term Loan and the Senior Notes or obtain other credit at all or on terms acceptable to us. In addition, the terms governing the Credit Facility, the Unsecured Term Loan and the Senior Notes and any indebtedness that we incur in the future could impose financial and operating covenants that restrict our 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS business activities, including limitations that may hinder our ability to finance additional loans and investments or make the distributions required to maintain our status as a RIC under the Code. The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock as of December 31, 2015, assuming various annual returns, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing in the table below. Assumed Return on Our Portfolio (Net of Expenses) -10% -5% 0% 5% 10% Corresponding return to common stockholder(1) (20.0 )% (11.5 )% (3.0 )% 5.5 % 14.0 % (1) Assumes $445.2 million in total assets, $187.0 million in debt outstanding and $244.1 million in net assets as of December 31, 2015, and an average cost of funds of 3.8%, which is our weighted average borrowing cost as of December 31, 2015. Based on our outstanding indebtedness of $187.0 million as of December 31, 2015 and an average cost of funds of 3.7%, 7.1% and 2.2%, which were the effective annualized interest rates of the Credit Facility, Senior Notes and Unsecured Term Loan, respectively, as of that date, our investment portfolio must experience an annual return of at least 1.7% to cover annual interest payments on our outstanding indebtedness. We are subject to the risk of an event of default and acceleration under our unsecured debt agreements, which would have a material adverse effect on us. On November 8, 2012, we entered into a debt agreement for the Unsecured Term Loan and on July 23, 2013, we completed the public offering of the Senior Notes. There are several circumstances under which an event of default may occur under the debt agreements for the Unsecured Term Loan and Senior Notes, such as failure to make scheduled principal or interest payments and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, our lenders may exercise customary remedies, including declaring all amounts due and payable. Any of these developments would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we expect to distribute substantially all of our ordinary income and net realized capital gains to our stockholders, we will need additional capital to finance our growth and such capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We will need additional capital to fund growth in our investment portfolio. We may issue debt or equity securities or borrow from financial institutions in order to obtain this additional capital. A reduction in the availability of new capital could limit our ability to grow. We are required to distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, each taxable year to our stockholders to maintain our ability to be subject to tax as a RIC. As a result, these earnings will not be available to fund new investments. If we fail to obtain additional capital to fund new investments, this could limit our ability to grow, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our securities. We may not apply or be approved for an SBIC license. We may apply for a license to form a SBIC. If such an application is made and approved and the Small Business Administration, or SBA, so permits, we anticipate that the SBIC license would be transferred to a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours that would be formed just prior to such transfer. Following such transfer, we anticipate that the SBIC subsidiary would be allowed to issue SBA-guaranteed debentures, subject to the required capitalization of the SBIC subsidiary. SBA guaranteed debentures carry long-term fixed rates that are generally lower than rates on comparable bank and other debt. We cannot assure you that we will make an application for an SBIC license, be successful in receiving an SBIC license from the SBA or that the SBA will permit such license to be transferred to us. If we do receive an SBIC license, there is no minimum amount of SBA-guaranteed debentures that must be allocated to us. 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS Since we are using debt to finance our investments, and we may use additional debt financing going forward, changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. Since we are using debt to finance investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we cannot assure you that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates when we have debt outstanding, our cost of funds will increase, which could reduce our net investment income. Conversely, in periods of falling interest rates, the probability that our loans and other investments in portfolio companies will be pre-paid increases. In such event, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to make new loans on the same terms, or at all. If we cannot make new loans on terms that are the same or better than the investments that are repaid, then our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. We expect that our investments will be financed primarily with equity and medium to long-term debt. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. These techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. These activities may limit our ability to benefit from lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our ability to engage in hedging transactions may also be adversely affected by recent rules adopted by the CFTC, unless we register with the CFTC as a commodity pool operator. You should also be aware that a rise in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates would make it easier for us to meet or exceed the incentive fee Hurdle Rate and may result in a substantial increase in the amount of incentive fees payable to our Investment Adviser with respect to Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income. There are significant potential conflicts of interest that could affect our investment returns. As a result of our arrangements with H.I.G. Capital and our investment committee, there may be times when H.I.G. Capital or our investment committee have interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict of interest. There may be conflicts related to obligations our investment committee, our Investment Adviser or its affiliates have to other clients. The members of our investment committee serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do, or of investment funds managed by our Investment Adviser or its affiliates. Similarly, our Investment Adviser or its affiliates may have other clients with similar, different or competing investment objectives. In serving in these multiple capacities, they may have obligations to other clients or investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which may not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. For example, the members of our investment committee have, and will continue to have, management responsibilities for other investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles managed or sponsored by our Investment Adviser and its affiliates. Our investment objective overlaps or may overlap with the investment objectives of such affiliated investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles. As a result, those individuals may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities among us and other investment funds or accounts advised by or affiliated with our Investment Adviser. Our Investment Adviser will seek to allocate investment opportunities among eligible accounts in a manner that is fair and equitable over time and consistent with its allocation policy. However, we cannot assure you that such opportunities will be allocated to us fairly or equitably in the short-term or over time. Where we are able to co-invest consistent with the requirements of the 1940 Act, if sufficient securities or loan amounts are available to satisfy our and each such account’s proposed demand, we expect that the opportunity will be allocated in accordance with our Investment Adviser’s pre-transaction determination. If there is an insufficient amount of an investment opportunity to satisfy our demand and that of other accounts sponsored or managed by our Investment Adviser or its affiliates, the allocation policy further provides that allocations among us and such other accounts will generally be made pro rata based on the amount that each such party would have invested if sufficient loan amounts were available. However, there 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS can be no assurance that we will be able to participate in all suitable investment opportunities. Where we are unable to co-invest consistent with the requirements of the 1940 Act, our Investment Adviser’s allocation policy provides for investments to be allocated on a rotational basis to assure that all clients have fair and equitable access to such investment opportunities. Our investment committee, our Investment Adviser or its affiliates may, from time to time, possess material non-public information, limiting our investment discretion. Principals of our Investment Adviser and its affiliates and members of our investment committee may serve as directors of, or in a similar capacity with, companies in which we invest, the securities of which are purchased or sold on our behalf. If we obtain material nonpublic information with respect to such companies, or we become subject to trading restrictions under the internal trading policies of those companies or as a result of applicable law or regulations, we could be prohibited for a period of time from purchasing or selling the securities of such companies, and this prohibition may have an adverse effect on us. Our incentive fee structure may create incentives for our Investment Adviser that are not fully aligned with the interests of our stockholders and may induce our Investment Adviser to make speculative investments. In the course of our investing activities, we pay management and incentive fees to our Investment Adviser. The incentive fee payable by us to our Investment Adviser may create an incentive for our Investment Adviser to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The management fee is based on our consolidated gross assets. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments. Because the management fee is based on our consolidated gross assets, our Investment Adviser will benefit when we incur debt or use leverage. The use of leverage increases the likelihood of default, which disfavors the holders of our common stock. Additionally, under the incentive fee structure, our Investment Adviser may benefit when capital gains are recognized and, because our Investment Adviser determines when a holding is sold, our Investment Adviser controls the timing of the recognition of such capital gains. Our board of directors is charged with protecting our interests by monitoring how our Investment Adviser addresses these and other conflicts of interest associated with its management services and compensation. While they are not expected to review or approve each investment or realization, our independent directors will periodically review our Investment Adviser’s services and fees as well as its portfolio management decisions and portfolio performance. In connection with these reviews, our independent directors will consider whether such fees and our expenses (including those related to leverage) remain appropriate. As a result of this arrangement, our Investment Adviser or its affiliates may from time to time have interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. Unlike that portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no Hurdle Rate applicable to the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, our Investment Adviser may seek to invest more capital in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. This practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. In addition, under the terms of the Incentive Fee Cap and Deferral Mechanism, the amount of incentive fees earned by our Investment Adviser will depend, in part, upon the timing of capital gains or losses in our investment portfolio, as well as the timing of our recognition of income. Depending on the circumstances, there may be a lag of as long as 12 fiscal quarters between the occurrence of an event giving rise to an obligation to pay incentive fees to the Investment Adviser and the payment of such incentive fees. Therefore, investors who acquire our shares of common stock may pay indirectly to our Investment Adviser incentive fees in respect of income or capital gains that were received by or paid to us prior to such investor becoming a stockholder. As a result, such investors may not participate in the income or capital gains giving rise to such indirect expense. The valuation process for certain of our portfolio holdings creates a conflict of interest. We expect to make many portfolio investments in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. As a result, our board of directors determines the fair value of these securities in good faith. In connection with that 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS determination, investment professionals from our Investment Adviser provide our board of directors with portfolio company valuations based upon the most recent portfolio company financial statements available and projected financial results of each portfolio company. In addition, certain members of our board of directors, including Messrs. John Bolduc and Jay Carvell, have an indirect pecuniary interest in our Investment Adviser. The participation of our Investment Adviser’s investment professionals in our valuation process, and the indirect pecuniary interest in our Investment Adviser by certain members of our board of directors, could result in a conflict of interest as the management fee paid to our Investment Adviser is based, in part, on our consolidated gross assets. We have conflicts related to other arrangements with our Investment Adviser or its affiliates. We have entered into a license agreement with an affiliate of H.I.G. Capital under which H.I.G. Capital has granted us a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use the name “WhiteHorse”. In addition, we pay to WhiteHorse Administration our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by WhiteHorse Administration in performing its obligations under the Administration Agreement, such as rent and our allocable portion of the cost of our chief financial officer and chief compliance officer and their respective staffs. This creates conflicts of interest that our board of directors must monitor. Our Investment Adviser may be paid incentive compensation even if we incur a net loss, and we cannot recover any portion of the incentive fee previously paid. Our Investment Adviser is entitled to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of our Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income, subject to the Hurdle Rate, a catch-up provision and the Incentive Fee Cap and Deferral Mechanism. Our Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income excludes realized and unrealized capital losses that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses result in a net loss for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay our Investment Adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if we incur a net loss. In addition, if we pay the capital gains portion of the incentive fee and thereafter experience additional realized capital losses or unrealized capital depreciation, we will not be able to recover any portion of the incentive fee previously paid. The Investment Advisory Agreement with WhiteHorse Advisers and the Administration Agreement with WhiteHorse Administration were not negotiated on an arm’s length basis and may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. The Investment Advisory Agreement and the Administration Agreement were negotiated between related parties. Consequently, their terms, including fees payable to our Investment Adviser, may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. In addition, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights and remedies under these agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with our Investment Adviser, our Administrator and their respective affiliates. Any such decision, however, would breach our fiduciary obligations to our stockholders. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted, which may limit the scope of investments available to us. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, of the SEC. On July 8, 2014, we received exemptive relief from the SEC, which permits us to participate in negotiated investments with our affiliates that would otherwise be prohibited by the 1940 Act, subject to certain conditions. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, five percent or more of our outstanding voting securities will be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act, and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to, or entering into certain “joint” transactions (which could include investments in the same portfolio company) with such affiliates, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. Our Investment Adviser and its affiliates, including persons that control, or are under common control with, us or our Investment Adviser, are also considered to be our affiliates under the 1940 Act. We may invest alongside other clients of our Investment Adviser and its affiliates in certain circumstances where doing so is consistent with applicable law, the terms of our exemptive relief order, SEC staff interpretations and/or exemptive relief issued by the SEC. For example, we may invest alongside such 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS accounts consistent with guidance promulgated by the staff of the SEC permitting us and such other accounts to purchase interests in a single class of privately placed securities so long as certain conditions are met, including that our Investment Adviser, acting on our behalf and on behalf of other clients, negotiates no term other than price. We may also invest alongside our Investment Adviser’s other clients as otherwise permissible under regulatory guidance, applicable regulations and the allocation policy of H.I.G. Capital and our Investment Adviser. Under this allocation policy, a fixed calculation, based on the type of investment, will be applied to determine the amount of each opportunity to be allocated to us. This allocation policy will be periodically approved by our Investment Adviser and reviewed by our independent directors. We expect that these determinations will be made similarly for other accounts sponsored or managed by our Investment Adviser and its affiliates. If sufficient securities or loan amounts are available to satisfy our and each such account’s proposed demand, we expect that the opportunity will be allocated in accordance with our Investment Adviser’s pre-transaction determination. Where there is an insufficient amount of an investment opportunity to satisfy us and other accounts sponsored or managed by our Investment Adviser or its affiliates, the allocation policy further provides that allocations among us and such other accounts will generally be made pro rata based on the amount that each such party would have invested if sufficient securities or loan amounts were available. However, we can offer no assurance that investment opportunities will be allocated to us fairly or equitably in the short-term or over time. The exemptive relief we received permits greater flexibility to negotiate the terms of co-investments if our board of directors determines that it would be advantageous for us to co-invest with other accounts sponsored or managed by our Investment Adviser or its affiliates in a manner consistent with our investment objective, positions, policies, strategies and restrictions, as well as regulatory requirements and other relevant factors. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” We cannot assure you, however, that we will develop opportunities that comply with such limitations. In situations where co-investment with other accounts managed by our Investment Adviser or its affiliates is not permitted or appropriate, H.I.G. Capital and our Investment Adviser will need to decide which client will proceed with the investment. Our Investment Adviser’s allocation policy provides, in such circumstances, for investments to be allocated on a rotational basis to assure that all clients of our Investment Adviser and its affiliates have fair and equitable access to such investment opportunities. Moreover, except in certain circumstances, we will be unable to invest in any issuer in which a fund managed by our Investment Adviser or its affiliates has previously invested. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. These restrictions may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to us. We will be exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our common stock and our rate of return on invested capital. A reduction in the interest rates on new investments relative to interest rates on current investments could also have an adverse impact on our net investment income. An increase in interest rates could decrease the value of any investments we hold which earn fixed interest rates and also could increase our interest expense, thereby decreasing our net income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our dividend rate, which could reduce the market value of our common stock. Our portfolio investments will be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors. As a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Many of our portfolio investments will take the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable, and we value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors, including to reflect significant events affecting the value of our securities. As discussed in more detail under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies,” all of our investments (other than cash and cash equivalents) are classified as Level 3 under Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, or ASC Topic 820. This means that our portfolio valuations are based on unobservable inputs and our own assumptions about how market participants would price the asset or liability in question. Inputs 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS into the determination of fair value of our portfolio investments require significant management judgment or estimation. Even if observable market data are available, such information may be the result of consensus pricing information or broker quotes, which include a disclaimer that the broker would not be held to such a price in an actual transaction. Consensus pricing is a methodology for the determination of fair value based on quotations from market makers. These quotations include a disclaimer that the market maker would not be held to such a price in an actual transaction. The non-binding nature of consensus pricing and/or quotes accompanied by disclaimers materially reduces the reliability of such information. We have retained the services of several independent service providers to periodically review the valuation of these securities. The types of factors that the board of directors may take into account in determining the fair value of our investments generally include, as appropriate, comparison to publicly traded securities, including such factors as yield, maturity and measures of credit quality, the enterprise value of a portfolio company, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings and discounted cash flow, the markets in which the portfolio company does business and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. In addition, the determination of fair value and thus the amount of unrealized losses we may incur in any year, is, to a degree, subjective, in that it is based on unobservable inputs and certain assumptions. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. We adjust quarterly the valuation of our portfolio to reflect our board of directors’ determination of the fair value of each investment in our portfolio. Any changes in fair value are recorded in our consolidated statements of operations as net change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We generally make investments in private companies. Substantially all of these investments are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company if we have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. Price declines and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets may adversely affect the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing our net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation. As a business development company, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors under our valuation policy and process. As part of the valuation process, we may take into account the following types of factors, if relevant, in determining the fair value of our investments: • a comparison of the portfolio company’s securities to publicly traded securities; • the enterprise value of the portfolio company; • the nature and realizable value of any collateral; • the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings; • changes in the interest rate environment and the credit markets generally that may affect the price at which similar investments may be made in the future and other relevant factors. When an external event such as a purchase transaction, public offering or subsequent equity sale occurs, we use the pricing indicated by the external event to corroborate our valuation. We record decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments as unrealized depreciation. Declines in prices and liquidity in the corporate debt markets may result in significant net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. The effect of all of these factors on our portfolio may reduce our net asset value by increasing net unrealized depreciation 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS in our portfolio, and therefore creating a challenging environment in which to raise debt and equity capital. As a business development company, we are generally not able to issue additional shares of common stock at a price less than net asset value without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and may suffer additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rate payable on the debt securities and loans we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in, and the timing of the recognition of, realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation at the local, state and federal level. We are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure proceedings and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into additional jurisdictions, we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply or we might have to restrict our operations. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, including those governing the types of investments we or our portfolio companies are permitted to make, any of which could harm us and our stockholders, potentially with retroactive effect. In particular, the scope of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, impacts many aspects of the financial services industry, and it requires the development and adoption of many implementing regulations over the next several years. The effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on the financial services industry will depend, in large part, upon the extent to which regulators exercise the authority granted to them and the approaches taken in implementing regulations. While the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on us and our portfolio companies may not be known for an extended period of time, the Dodd-Frank Act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory proposals directed at the financial services industry or affecting taxation that are proposed or pending in the U.S. Congress, may negatively impact the operations, cash flows or financial condition of us or our portfolio companies, impose additional costs on us or our portfolio companies, intensify the regulatory supervision of us or our portfolio companies or otherwise adversely affect our business or the business of our portfolio companies. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could lose any licenses that we then hold for the conduct of our business and may be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties. Additionally, changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations related to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth in this prospectus and may shift our investment focus from the areas of expertise of our Investment Adviser to other types of investments in which our Investment Adviser may have little or no expertise or experience. Any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Pending legislation may allow us to incur additional leverage. As a business development company, under the 1940 Act, generally we are not permitted to incur indebtedness unless immediately after such borrowing we have an asset coverage for total borrowings of at least 200% (i.e. the amount of debt may not exceed 50% of the value of our assets). A covenant in the indenture under which the Senior Notes are issued, or the Indenture, requires us to comply with the leverage 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS limit in the 1940 Act, but would enable us to increase our leverage with stockholder approval if the law changes. Legislation introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives, if passed, would modify this section of the 1940 Act and increase the amount of debt that business development companies may incur. As a result, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future and, therefore, risks associated with an investment in us or in the Senior Notes may increase. We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions. We may engage in currency or interest rate hedging transactions to the extent such transactions are permitted under the 1940 Act and applicable commodities law. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions, including the risk of counterparty default. In this regard, we may utilize instruments such as futures, forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for us to realize a gain on a net basis if the values of the underlying portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. While we may enter into transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates or counterparty default may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek or be able to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge position and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities may also fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. Our board of directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval. Our board of directors has the authority to modify or waive certain of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval (except as required by the 1940 Act). However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a business development company. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our stock. Nevertheless, the effects of any such changes may adversely affect our business and impact our ability to make distributions. Additionally, changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations, including those associated with RICs, may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities or result in the imposition of corporate-level taxes on us. Such changes could result in material differences to our strategies and plans and may shift our investment focus from the areas of expertise of WhiteHorse Advisers to other types of investments in which WhiteHorse Advisers may have little or no expertise or experience. Any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. If we invest in commodity interests in the future, WhiteHorse Advisers may determine not to use investment strategies that trigger additional regulation by the CFTC or may determine to operate subject to CFTC regulation, if applicable. If we or WhiteHorse Advisers were to operate subject to CFTC regulation, we may incur additional expenses and would be subject to additional regulation. In addition, certain regulations applicable to debt securitizations implementing credit risk retention requirements that have taken effect or will take effect in both the U.S. and in Europe may adversely affect 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS certain amendments to or new issuances by the Credit Facility and may adversely affect or prevent us from entering into any future securitization transaction. The impact of these risk retention rules on the loan securitization market are uncertain, and such rules may cause an increase in our cost of funds under or may prevent us from completing any future securitization transactions or certain amendments to or new issuances by our existing debt securitizations. Over the last several years, there also has been an increase in regulatory attention to the extension of credit outside of the traditional banking sector, raising the possibility that some portion of the non-bank financial sector will be subject to new regulation. While it cannot be known at this time whether any regulation will be implemented or what form it will take, increase regulation of no-bank credit extension could negatively impact our operations, cash flows or financial condition, impose additional costs on us, intensify the regulatory supervision of us or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the Credit Facility could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and the rights of our common stockholders. The General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or the DGCL, contains provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control of us or the removal of our directors. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that limit liability and provide for indemnification of our directors and officers. These provisions and others also may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying changes in control or management. We are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, the application of which is subject to any applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. This section generally prohibits us from engaging in mergers and other business combinations with stockholders that beneficially own 15% or more of our voting stock, or with their affiliates, unless our directors or stockholders approve the business combination in the prescribed manner. Our board of directors may adopt a resolution exempting from Section 203 of the DGCL any business combination between us and any other person, subject to prior approval of such business combination by our board of directors, including approval by a majority of our directors who are not “interested persons.” If the resolution exempting business combinations is repealed or our board does not approve a business combination, Section 203 of the DGCL may discourage third parties from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such an offer. We have also adopted measures that may make it difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, including provisions of our certificate of incorporation classifying our board of directors in three classes serving staggered three-year terms, and provisions of our certificate of incorporation authorizing our board of directors to classify or reclassify shares of our preferred stock in one or more classes or series and to cause the issuance of additional shares of our stock. These provisions, as well as other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, if we issue preferred stock, such securities would rank “senior” to common stock in our capital structure, resulting in preferred stockholders having separate voting rights, dividend and liquidation rights, and possibly other rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those granted to holders of our common stock. If we or one of our affiliates approved by the Lender is no longer the collateral manager under the Credit Facility or if certain change of control events occur, then an event of default will occur under the Credit Facility which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A change of control under the Credit Facility occurs if (1) WhiteHorse Warehouse ceases to be our wholly owned subsidiary, (2) Messrs. Anthony Tamer and Sami Mnaymneh, together, cease to own beneficially the power to vote a majority of the equity interests having direct or indirect ordinary voting power in our Investment Adviser and certain of its affiliates or (3) H.I.G. Capital Management, Inc., either directly or through its wholly owned subsidiaries or certain affiliates, ceases to provide all or substantially all of the personnel, investment committee and other services necessary for us to perform our duties as collateral manager under the Credit Facility documents. The occurrence of an event of default could result in us being unable to make distributions to our stockholders sufficient to maintain our status as a RIC, or at all, terminates the reinvestment period if then in effect, permits the facility agent on behalf of the Lender to take over 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS management of WhiteHorse Warehouse’s portfolio and to direct the liquidation of its assets, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Investment Adviser can resign on 60 days’ notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. Our Investment Adviser has the right, under the Investment Advisory Agreement, to resign at any time upon not less than 60 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our Investment Adviser resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our Investment Adviser and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Administrator can resign on 60 days’ notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. Our Administrator has the right, under the Administration Agreement, to resign at any time upon not less than 60 days’ notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our Administrator resigns, we may not be able to find a new administrator or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and administrative activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a service provider or individuals with the expertise possessed by our Administrator. Even if we are able to retain a comparable service provider or individuals to perform such services, whether internal or external, their integration into our business and lack of familiarity with our operations may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are an “emerging growth company,” and we do not know if such status will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We currently are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or the JOBS Act, signed into law on April 5, 2012 until the earliest of: • the last day of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2017; • the last day of the fiscal year in which our total annual gross revenues first exceed $1 billion; • the date on which we have, during the prior three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt; or • the last day of a fiscal year in which we (1) have an aggregate worldwide market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates of $700 million or more, computed at the end of each fiscal year as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, and (2) have been an Exchange Act reporting company for at least one year (and filed at least one annual report under the Exchange Act). We are taking advantage of some of the reduced regulatory and disclosure requirements permitted by the JOBS Act and, as a result, some investors may consider our common stock less attractive, which could reduce 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS the market value of our common stock. For example, while we are an emerging growth company, we are taking advantage of the exemption from the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that our independent registered public accounting firm provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and the extended transition period available to emerging growth companies to comply with “new or revised accounting standards” until those standards are applicable to private companies. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of issuers who are required to comply with the effective dates for new or revised accounting standards that are applicable to public companies. This may increase the risk that material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting go undetected. See “Business — Regulation — JOBS Act.” Efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. Under current SEC rules, we are required to report on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and related rules and regulations of the SEC and, under the JOBS Act, beginning with the first fiscal year in which we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, our independent registered public accounting firm must audit this report. We are required to review on an annual basis our internal control over financial reporting, and on a quarterly and annual basis to evaluate and disclose changes in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we expect to incur additional expenses in the near term that may negatively impact our financial performance and our ability to make distributions. This process also will result in a diversion of management’s time and attention. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations, and we may not be able to ensure that the process is effective or that our internal control over financial reporting is or will be effective in a timely manner. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures or interruption could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends and other distributions. We are highly dependent on the communications and information systems of our Investment Adviser and its affiliates as well as certain third-party service providers. As our reliance on these systems has increased, so have the risks posed to these communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption in these systems could cause disruptions in our activities. In addition, these systems are subject to potential attacks, including through adverse events that threaten the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our information resources. These attacks, which may include cyber incidents, may involve a third party gaining unauthorized access to our communications or information systems for purposes of misappropriating assets, stealing confidential information, corrupting data or causing operational disruption. Any such attack could result in disruption to our business, misstated or unreliable financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection and insurance costs, litigation and damage to our business relationships, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, the market price of our securities and our ability to pay dividends and other distributions to our securityholders. We and our Investment Adviser could be the target of litigation. We or WhiteHorse Advisers could become the target of securities class action litigation or other similar claims if our common stock price fluctuates significantly or for other reasons. The outcome of any such proceedings could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or operating results and could continue without resolution for long periods of time. Any litigation or other similar claims could consume substantial amounts of our management’s time and attention, and that time and attention and the devotion of associated resources could, at times, be disproportionate to the amounts at stake. Litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties, and a material adverse impact on our financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome in litigation or other similar 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS claims becomes probable and reasonably estimable. In addition, we could incur expenses associated with defending ourselves against litigation and other similar claims, and these expenses could be material to our earnings in future periods. Risks Related to our Investments Our investments may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We invest primarily in (1) first lien senior secured loans, (2) second lien senior secured loans, (3) “one-stop” or “unitranche” senior secured loans, (4) mezzanine loans and (5) to a lesser extent, selected equity co-investments in small-cap companies. We invest primarily in securities that are rated below investment grade by rating agencies or that may be rated below investment grade if they were so rated. Below investment grade securities, which are often referred to as “junk” bonds, are viewed as speculative investments because of concerns with respect to the issuer’s capacity to pay interest and repay principal. Secured Loans. When we extend first lien senior secured, second lien senior secured and unitranche loans, we generally take a security interest in the available assets of these portfolio companies, including the equity interests of their subsidiaries. We expect this security interest to help mitigate the risk that we will not be repaid. However, there is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital. Also, in the case of first lien senior secured loans, our lien may be subordinated to claims of other creditors and, in the case of second lien senior secured loans, our lien will be subordinated to claims of certain other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies. Mezzanine Loans. Our mezzanine investments generally are subordinated to senior loans and will generally be unsecured. This may result in an above average amount of risk and volatility or a loss of principal. These investments may involve additional risks that could adversely affect our investment returns. To the extent interest payments associated with such debt are deferred, such debt may be subject to greater fluctuations in valuations, and such debt could subject us and our stockholders to non-cash income as described above under “Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure — We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income.” Since, generally, we will not receive any substantial repayments of principal prior to the maturity of our mezzanine debt investments, such investments are riskier than amortizing loans. Equity Investments. We may make selected equity investments. In addition, when we invest in first lien, second lien, unitranche or mezzanine loans, we may acquire warrants to purchase equity securities. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of these equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. We are subject to risks associated with small-cap companies. Investing in small-cap companies involves a number of significant risks, including: • these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • they typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and changing market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS • they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • generally little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on our Investment Adviser to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies; • they generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors and our Investment Adviser may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies; and • they may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market’s assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC under the Code and the requirements under the documents governing the Credit Facility or other agreements, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments are and could be concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries, which would subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments or if there is a downturn in a particular industry. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries. As a result, the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly and adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Additionally, while we are not targeting any specific industries, our investments may be concentrated in relatively few industries. As a result, a downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could also significantly impact the aggregate returns we realize. We may hold the debt securities and loans of leveraged companies that may, due to the significant volatility of such companies, enter into bankruptcy proceedings. Leveraged companies may experience bankruptcy or similar financial distress. The bankruptcy process has a number of significant inherent risks. Many events in a bankruptcy proceeding are the product of contested matters and adversary proceedings and are beyond the control of the creditors. A bankruptcy filing by a portfolio company may adversely and permanently affect such portfolio company. If the proceeding is converted to a liquidation, the value of the issuer may not equal the liquidation value that was believed to exist at the time of our investment. The duration of a bankruptcy proceeding is also difficult to predict, and a creditor’s return on investment can be adversely affected by delays until a plan of reorganization or liquidation ultimately becomes effective. The administrative costs in connection with a bankruptcy proceeding are frequently high and would be paid out of the debtor’s estate prior to any return to creditors. Because the standards for classification of claims under bankruptcy law are vague, our influence with respect to the class of securities or other obligations we own may be lost by increases in the number and amount of claims in the 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS same class or by different classification and treatment. In the early stages of the bankruptcy process, it is often difficult to estimate the extent of, or even to identify, any contingent claims that might be made. In addition, certain claims that have priority by law (for example, claims for taxes) may be substantial, eroding the value of any recovery by holders of other securities of the bankrupt entity. Depending on the facts and circumstances of our investments and the extent of our involvement in the management of a portfolio company, upon the bankruptcy of a portfolio company, a bankruptcy court may recharacterize our debt investments as equity interests and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. This could occur even though we may have structured our investment as senior debt. Our portfolio companies may experience financial distress, and our investments in such portfolio companies may be restructured. Our portfolio companies may experience financial distress from time to time. The debt investments of these companies may not produce income, may require us to bear certain expenses to protect our investment and may subject us to uncertainty as to when, in what manner and for what value such distressed debt will eventually be satisfied, including through liquidation, reorganization or bankruptcy. If an exchange offer is made or plan of reorganization is adopted with respect to the debt securities we currently hold, there can be no assurance that the securities or other assets received by us in connection with such exchange offer or plan of reorganization will have a value or income potential similar to what we anticipated when our original investment was made or even at the time of restructuring. In addition, we may receive equity securities in exchange for the debt investment that we currently hold, which may require significantly more of our management’s time and attention or carry restrictions on their disposition. Our portfolio companies may be unable to repay or refinance outstanding principal on their loans at or prior to maturity, and rising interests rates may make it more difficult for portfolio companies to make periodic payments on their loans. Our portfolio companies may be unable to repay or refinance outstanding principal on their loans at or prior to maturity. This risk and the risk of default is increased to the extent that the loan documents do not require the portfolio companies to pay down the outstanding principal of such debt prior to maturity. In addition, if general interest rates rise, there is a risk that our portfolio companies will be unable to pay escalating interest amounts, which could result in a default under their loan documents with us. Rising interests rates could also cause portfolio companies to shift cash from other productive uses to the payment of interest, which may have a material adverse effect on their business and operations and could, over time, lead to increased defaults. Any failure of one or more portfolio companies to repay or refinance its debt at or prior to maturity or the inability of one or more portfolio companies to make ongoing payments following an increase in contractual interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Our portfolio companies are susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during such periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing our investments and harm our operating results, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, lenders in certain cases can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them when they become too 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS involved in the borrower’s business or exercise control over a borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, including as a result of actions taken if we render significant managerial assistance to the borrower. Furthermore, if one of our portfolio companies were to file for bankruptcy protection, even though we may have structured our investment as senior secured debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to claims of other creditors. We may be subject to risks associated with syndicated loans. From time to time, we may acquire interests in syndicated loans. Under the documentation for syndicated loans, a financial institution or other entity typically is designated as the administrative agent and/or collateral agent. This agent is granted a lien on any collateral on behalf of the other lenders and distributes payments on the indebtedness as they are received. The agent is the party responsible for administering and enforcing the loan and generally may take actions only in accordance with the instructions of a majority or two-thirds in commitments and/or principal amount of the associated indebtedness. In most cases, we do not expect to hold a sufficient amount of the indebtedness to be able to compel any actions by the agent. Consequently, we would only be able to direct such actions if instructions from us were made in conjunction with other holders of associated indebtedness that together with us compose the requisite percentage of the related indebtedness then entitled to take action. Conversely, if holders of the required amount of the associated indebtedness other than us desire to take certain actions, such actions may be taken even if we did not support such actions. Furthermore, if an investment is subordinated to one or more senior loans made to the applicable obligor, our ability to exercise such rights may be subordinated to the exercise of such rights by the senior lenders. Accordingly, we may be precluded from directing such actions unless we act together with other holders of the indebtedness. If we are unable to direct such actions, we cannot assure you that the actions taken will be in our best interests. If an investment is a syndicated revolving loan or delayed drawdown loan, other lenders may fail to satisfy their full contractual funding commitments for such loan, which could create a breach of contract, result in a lawsuit by the obligor against the lenders and adversely affect the fair market value of our investment. There is a risk that a loan agent in respect of one of our loans may become bankrupt or insolvent. Such an event would delay, and possibly impair, any enforcement actions undertaken by holders of the associated indebtedness, including attempts to realize upon the collateral securing the associated indebtedness and/or direct the agent to take actions against the related obligor or the collateral securing the associated indebtedness and actions to realize on proceeds of payments made by obligors that are in the possession or control of any other financial institution. In addition, we may be unable to remove the agent in circumstances in which removal would be in our best interests. Moreover, agented loans typically allow for the agent to resign with certain advance notice. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. When we invest in loans, we may also invest in the equity securities of the borrower or acquire warrants or other equity securities as well. In addition, we may invest directly in the equity securities of portfolio companies. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of such equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of such equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio, and our ability to make follow-on investments in certain portfolio companies may be restricted. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as “follow-on” investments, in order to: • increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS • exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or • attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment. We have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources, the limitations of the 1940 Act, the requirements associated with our status as a RIC and contractual requirements imposed on us under the Credit Facility or otherwise. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful portfolio company. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we do not want to increase our exposure to the portfolio company, because we prefer other opportunities or because we are inhibited by compliance with business development company requirements, our contractual requirements or the desire to maintain our tax status. Because we generally do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we will not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. We do not currently anticipate taking controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies. In addition, we may not be in a position to control any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities or loans. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity for the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company, and we may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. Defaults by our portfolio companies will harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets. This could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize such portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. Any such diversion of cash flow or any event of default could result in our being unable to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts sufficient to maintain our ability to be subject to tax as a RIC, or at all, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We generally intend to invest a portion of our capital in first lien, second lien, unitranche and mezzanine loans and, to a lesser extent, equity securities of U.S. small-cap companies. The portfolio companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying senior creditors, the portfolio company may not have sufficient assets to use for repaying its obligation to us in full, or at all. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share any distributions on an equal and ratable basis with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS Additionally, certain loans that we make to portfolio companies may be secured on a second-priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first-priority liens on the collateral secure the portfolio company’s obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by first-priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation depends on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurances that the proceeds, if any, from sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second-priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first-priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second-priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, only have an unsecured claim against the portfolio company’s remaining assets, if any. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we make to our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of such senior debt. Under a typical intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first-priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first-priority liens: • the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; • the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; • the approval of amendments to collateral documents; • releases of liens on the collateral; and • waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected. We may also make unsecured loans to portfolio companies, meaning that such loans will not benefit from any security interest over the assets of such companies. Liens on such portfolio companies’ assets, if any, will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under its outstanding secured debt and may secure certain future debt that is permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under its secured loan agreements. The holders of obligations secured by such liens will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of such collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of such collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of such collateral would be sufficient to satisfy our unsecured obligations after payment in full of all secured loan obligations. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay the outstanding secured loan obligations, then our unsecured claims would rank equally with the unpaid portion of such secured creditors’ claims against the portfolio company’s remaining assets, if any. Our Investment Adviser’s liability is limited under the Investment Advisory Agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our Investment Adviser against certain liabilities, which may lead our Investment Adviser to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, our Investment Adviser does not assume any responsibility to us, including other than to render the services called for under those agreements, and it is not responsible for any action of our board of directors in following or declining to follow our Investment Adviser’s advice or recommendations. Our Investment Adviser maintains a contractual and fiduciary relationship with us. Under the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement, our Investment Adviser, its officers, members, personnel, agents, any person controlling or controlled by our Investment Adviser are not be liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our directors, our stockholders or any subsidiary’s stockholders or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Investment Advisory Agreement, except those resulting 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS from acts constituting gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of our Investment Adviser’s duties under the Investment Advisory Agreement. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify our Investment Adviser and each of its officers, directors, members, managers and employees from and against any claims or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with our business and operations or any action taken or omitted on our behalf pursuant to authority granted by the Investment Advisory Agreement, except where attributable to gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of such person’s duties under the Investment Advisory Agreement and the sub-collateral management agreement. These protections may lead our Investment Adviser to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Our portfolio companies may prepay loans, which prepayment may reduce our yields if capital returned cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater expected yields. The loans in our investment portfolio generally are prepayable at any time, some of which have no premium to par. It is not clear at this time when each loan may be prepaid. Whether a loan is prepaid will depend both on the continued positive performance of the portfolio company and the existence of favorable financing market conditions that allow such company the ability to replace existing financing with less expensive capital. As market conditions change frequently, it is unknown when, and if, this may be possible for each portfolio company. In the case of some of these loans, having the loan prepaid may reduce the achievable yield for us if the capital returned cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater expected yields, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The disposition of our investments may result in contingent liabilities. We currently expect that a significant portion of our investments will involve private securities. In connection with the disposition of an investment in private securities, we may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. We may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate or with respect to certain potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately yield funding obligations that must be satisfied through our return of certain distributions previously made to us. Investments in securities of foreign companies, if any, may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. We may make investments in securities of foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. In addition, any investments that we make that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we cannot assure you that we will, in fact, hedge currency risk, or, that if we do, such strategies will be effective. Risks Related to our Credit Facility Our interests in WhiteHorse Credit are subordinated. We own 100% of the equity interests in WhiteHorse Credit and consolidate the financial statements of WhiteHorse Credit in our consolidated financial statements. We treat the indebtedness of WhiteHorse Credit as our leverage for purposes of compliance with the 1940 Act. Our equity interests in WhiteHorse Credit are subordinated in priority of payment to its obligations to its debt holders and its service providers. All of these persons have claims superior to our claims as equity interest holder in any liquidation of WhiteHorse Credit. 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS Credit or market value deterioration by our portfolio companies will harm our operating results. A payment default on a loan to a portfolio company or a default leading to the acceleration of debt of a portfolio company could cause the loan to such portfolio company held by us to become, or to be deemed to be, a defaulted obligation under the Credit Facility. This, in turn, could result in a coverage test under the Credit Facility not being met and the diversion of distributions of assets held by WhiteHorse Credit to pay down debt under the Credit Facility rather than to make distributions. Such a portfolio company default could also lead to an event of default and acceleration under the Credit Facility and liquidation by the related lender of the assets securing the Credit Facility. Any such diversion of cash flow or any event of default could result in our being unable to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts sufficient to maintain our status as a RIC, or at all, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not receive cash from WhiteHorse Credit. We expect to receive cash from WhiteHorse Credit as distributions on our equity interests in WhiteHorse Credit. We will receive distributions on our equity interests in WhiteHorse Credit only to the extent cash is available and permitted to be distributed under the Credit Facility. WhiteHorse Credit may not receive sufficient cash to make distributions, in which case we would not be entitled to receive distributions from WhiteHorse Credit and, as a result, we would be unable to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts sufficient to maintain our status as a RIC, or at all. Limitations under the Credit Facility will impair our ability to sell investments owned by WhiteHorse Credit, and we may not be able to sell such investments. These limitations include prior satisfaction of certain coverage tests and collateral quality tests, the minimum price at which we may sell such investments and the amount of investments we may sell within a certain timeframe. Under the Credit Facility, there are two coverage tests that WhiteHorse Credit must meet on specified compliance dates in order to permit WhiteHorse Credit to make new borrowings under the Credit Facility and to make distributions to us in the ordinary course — a borrowing base test and a market value test. The borrowing base test compares, at any given time, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility to (1) the aggregate outstanding amount of all Lender advances, (2) the excess of certain unfunded commitments on loans over the amount reserved with respect to such loans and (3) the amount due for any unsettled purchases of loans at such time. To meet the borrowing base test, this ratio must exceed a minimum specified amount set forth in the Credit Facility and related documentation. To meet the market value test, the value of WhiteHorse Credit’s portfolio investments must exceed a minimum specified amount set forth in the Credit Facility and related documentation. If either of these coverage tests is not met on a compliance date, then WhiteHorse Credit may sell portfolio investments or apply cash until such coverage tests are satisfied. If we fail to receive cash from WhiteHorse Credit, we may be unable to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts sufficient to maintain our status as a RIC, or at all. We may experience an event of default and acceleration under the Credit Facility, which would have a material adverse effect on us. There are several circumstances under which an event of default may occur under the Credit Facility, some of which relate to the performance of the assets of WhiteHorse Credit or the performance by WhiteHorse Credit of its obligations under the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility also includes customary events of default for credit facilities of this nature, including breaches of representations, warranties or covenants by WhiteHorse Finance or WhiteHorse Credit, the occurrence of a change in control, or failure to maintain certain ratios required under the Credit Facility. The occurrence of an event of default could, among other consequences, (a) prevent us from making distributions to our stockholders sufficient to maintain our ability to be subject to tax as a RIC, or at all, (b) terminate the reinvestment period under the Credit Facility, if it is then in effect, and (c) permit the facility agent to assume the management of WhiteHorse Credit’s portfolio and to direct the liquidation of its assets. Any of these developments could or would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the Lender may exercise customary remedies, including declaring all amounts due and payable under the Credit Facility, blocking distributions in respect of the equity of WhiteHorse Credit or selling assets, including selling assets at a lower price than what might otherwise be achieved in an orderly liquidation. 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS The ability of WhiteHorse Credit to purchase and sell investments is limited. The Credit Facility restricts the portfolio manager’s ability to purchase and sell investments for WhiteHorse Credit. As a result, the portfolio manager may be unable to purchase or sell investments or take other actions that might be in our best interests, which could impair our performance and result in losses. During the reinvestment period, WhiteHorse Credit will have the ability to borrow funds for the acquisition of investments that meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the Credit Facility. Such funds may be repaid and re-borrowed during the reinvestment period, subject to compliance with the terms of the Credit Facility. We may lose the ability to manage WhiteHorse Credit even if we continue to own its equity. If a market value event or an event of default occurs under the Credit Facility or if we resign or are terminated for cause as portfolio manager under the loan agreement, we may no longer manage the WhiteHorse Credit portfolio investments even though we are required to continue to own the equity interests in WhiteHorse Credit. If an agent for the Lender or the successor portfolio manager does not manage WhiteHorse Credit’s portfolio in the same manner that we would have, our performance may not meet expectations and result in losses. Risks Relating to an Investment in our Senior Notes The Senior Notes are unsecured and therefore effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness we have currently incurred or may incur in the future. The Senior Notes mature on July 31, 2020 and bear interest at an annual rate of 6.5%. The Senior Notes are not secured by any of our assets or any of the assets of our subsidiaries and rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future unsubordinated, unsecured senior indebtedness. As a result, the Senior Notes are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness we or our subsidiaries have currently incurred and may incur in the future (or any indebtedness that is initially unsecured to which we subsequently grant security) to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. In any liquidation, dissolution, bankruptcy or other similar proceeding, the holders of any of our existing or future secured indebtedness and the secured indebtedness of our subsidiaries may assert rights against the assets pledged to secure that indebtedness in order to receive full payment of their indebtedness before the assets may be used to pay other creditors, including the holders of the Senior Notes. The Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to the indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries. The Senior Notes are obligations exclusively of WhiteHorse Finance and not of any of our subsidiaries. None of our subsidiaries is or acts as a guarantor of the Senior Notes, and the Senior Notes are not required to be guaranteed by any subsidiaries we may acquire or establish in the future. Except to the extent we are a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, all claims of creditors (including holders of preferred stock, if any, of our subsidiaries) will have priority over our equity interests in such subsidiaries (and therefore the claims of our creditors, including holders of the Senior Notes) with respect to the assets of such subsidiaries. Even if we are recognized as a creditor of one or more of our subsidiaries, our claims would still be effectively subordinated to any security interests in the assets of any such subsidiary and to any indebtedness or other liabilities of any such subsidiary senior to our claims. Consequently, the Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables) of our subsidiary and any subsidiaries that we may in the future acquire or establish. In addition, our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, all of which would be structurally senior to the Senior Notes. The Indenture contains limited protection for holders of the Senior Notes. The Indenture offers limited protection to holders of the Senior Notes. The terms of the Indenture and the Senior Notes do not restrict our or any of our subsidiaries’ ability to engage in, or otherwise be a party to, a variety of corporate transactions, circumstances or events that could have an adverse impact on your investment in the Senior Notes. In particular, the terms of the Indenture and the Senior Notes do not place any restrictions on our or our subsidiaries’ ability to: 49 TABLE OF CONTENTS • issue securities or otherwise incur additional indebtedness or other obligations, including (1) any indebtedness or other obligations that would be equal in right of payment to the Senior Notes, (2) any indebtedness or other obligations that would be secured and therefore rank effectively senior in right of payment to the Senior Notes to the extent of the values of the assets securing such debt, (3) indebtedness of ours that is guaranteed by one or more of our subsidiaries and which therefore would rank structurally senior to the Senior Notes and (4) securities, indebtedness or other obligations issued or incurred by our subsidiaries that would be senior in right of payment to our equity interests in our subsidiaries and therefore would rank structurally senior in right of payment to the Senior Notes with respect to the assets of our subsidiaries, in each case other than an incurrence of indebtedness or other obligation that would cause a violation of the asset coverage requirement under Section 18(a)(1)(A) as modified by Section 61(a)(1) of the 1940 Act or any successor provisions; • pay dividends on, or purchase or redeem or make any payments in respect of, capital stock or other securities ranking junior in right of payment to the Senior Notes; • sell assets (other than certain limited restrictions on our ability to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets); • create liens (including liens on the shares of our subsidiaries) or enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • make investments; or • create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us from our subsidiaries. In addition, the Indenture does not require us to offer to purchase the Senior Notes in connection with a change of control or any other event. Furthermore, the terms of the Indenture and the Senior Notes do not protect holders of the Senior Notes in the event that we experience changes (including significant adverse changes) in our financial condition, results of operations or credit ratings, as they do not require that we or our subsidiaries adhere to any financial tests or ratios or specified levels of net worth, revenues, income, cash flow or liquidity, except as required under the 1940 Act. Our ability to recapitalize, incur additional debt and take a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the Senior Notes may have important consequences for you as a holder of the Senior Notes, including making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Senior Notes or negatively affecting the trading value of the Senior Notes. Certain of our current debt instruments include more protections for their holders than the Indenture and the Senior Notes. In addition, other debt we issue or incur in the future could contain more protections for its holders than the Indenture and the Senior Notes, including additional covenants and events of default. The issuance or incurrence of any such debt with incremental protections could affect the market for and trading levels and prices of the Senior Notes. An active trading market for the Senior Notes may not continue to exist, which could limit the market price of the Senior Notes or your ability to sell them. We do not intend to have the Senior Notes rated. We cannot provide any assurances that an active trading market will continue to exist for the Senior Notes or that holders will be able to sell their Senior Notes at a particulate time or at a favorable price. The Senior Notes have traded at a discount from their initial offering price depending on prevailing interest rates, the market for similar securities, our credit ratings, general economic conditions, our financial condition, performance and prospects and other factors. If a rating agency assigns the Senior Notes a non-investment grade rating or the Senior Notes are not rated, the Senior Notes may be subject to greater price volatility than similar securities without such a rating. Below investment grade securities, which are often referred to as “junk” bonds, are viewed as speculative investments because of concerns with respect to the issuer’s capacity to pay interest and repay principal. 50 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may choose to redeem the Senior Notes when prevailing interest rates are relatively low. On or after July 31, 2016, we may choose to redeem the Senior Notes from time to time, especially when prevailing interest rates are lower than the rate borne by the Senior Notes. If prevailing rates are lower at the time of redemption, holders would not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as the interest rate on the Senior Notes being redeemed. Our redemption right also may adversely impact holders’ ability to sell the Senior Notes as the optional redemption date or period approaches. FATCA withholding may apply to payments to certain foreign entities. Payments made under the Senior Notes to a foreign financial institution or non-financial foreign entity (including such an institution or entity acting as an intermediary) may be subject to a U.S. withholding tax of 30% under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, or FATCA, which was enacted in 2010. This tax may apply to certain payments of interest as well as payments made upon maturity, redemption, or sale of the Senior Notes, unless the foreign financial institution or non-financial foreign entity complies with certain information reporting, withholding, identification, certification and related requirements imposed by FATCA. Holders should consult their tax advisors regarding FATCA and how it may affect an investment in the Senior Notes. Risks Relating to an Investment in our Common Stock We have obtained the approval of our stockholders to issue shares of our common stock at prices below the then-current net asset value per share of our common stock and may do so again in the future. Any such issuance could materially dilute your interest in our common stock and reduce our net asset value per share. We have obtained the approval of our stockholders to issue shares of our common stock at prices below the then-current net asset value per share of our common stock in one or more offerings for a twelve-month period and may do so again in the future. Such approval may allow us to access the capital markets in a way that we are typically unable to do as a result of restrictions that, absent stockholder approval, apply to business development companies under the 1940 Act. Our rights offering completed on November 20, 2015 resulted in the issuance of 3,321,033 additional shares of common stock at a price below the then-current NAV per share. Any sale or other issuance of shares of our common stock at a price below net asset value per share will result in an immediate dilution to your interest in our common stock and a reduction of our net asset value per share. This dilution would occur as a result of a proportionately greater decrease in a stockholder’s interest in our earnings and assets and voting interest in us than the increase in our assets resulting from such issuance. Because the number of future shares of common stock that may be issued below our net asset value per share and the price and timing of such issuances are not currently known, we cannot predict the actual dilutive effect of any such issuance. We also cannot determine the resulting reduction in our net asset value per share of any such issuance at this time. We caution you that such effects may be material, and we undertake to describe all the material risks and dilutive effects of any offering that we make at a price below our then-current net asset value in the future in a prospectus supplement issued in connection with any such offering. Investing in our common stock may involve an above average degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and a higher risk of volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies involve higher levels of risk, and therefore, an investment in our shares may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance. In addition, our common stock is intended for long-term investors and should not be treated as a trading vehicle. Our shares may trade at a price that is less than the offering price. This risk may be greater for investors who sell their shares in a relatively short period of time after completion of an offering. 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, often trade at a discount to their net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, may trade at a discount from net asset value. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies and business development companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. We cannot predict whether our common stock will trade at, above or below net asset value. There is a risk that investors in our equity securities may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time and a portion of our distributions may be a return of capital. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. If the amount of any distribution exceeds the sum of our investment company taxable income and not capital gains, if any, then all or a portion of such distribution could constitute a return of capital to stockholders rather than dividend income for tax purposes. A return of capital is a return to investors of a portion of their original investment in the company rather than income or capital gains. A return of capital will have the effect of reducing a stockholder’s basis in its shares of common stock, which may, if such stockholder sells or otherwise disposes such stock at a price greater than its then-current basis, result in a higher taxable capital gain to such stockholder at the time of sale. Our ability to pay distributions might be adversely affected by the impact of one or more of the risk factors described in this prospectus. Due to the asset coverage test applicable to us under the 1940 Act as a business development company, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. If we declare a dividend and if more stockholders opt to receive cash distributions rather than participate in our dividend reinvestment plan, we may be forced to sell some of our investments in order to make cash dividend payments. In addition, after the reinvestment period under the Credit Facility, asset sales proceeds, if any (including any realized gains), must be used to pay down any outstanding debt and certain other amounts prior to distributing cash from WhiteHorse Credit to us. Also, if certain coverage tests are not met under the Credit Facility or if an event of default and acceleration occurs under the Credit Facility, then income and capital gains which would otherwise be distributable by us to our stockholders will be diverted to pay down debt or other amounts due under the Credit Facility. All distributions will be paid at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC status, compliance with applicable business development company regulations and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure investors that we will pay distributions to our stockholders in the future. FATCA withholding may apply to payments to certain foreign entities. Withholding of U.S. tax at a 30% rate is currently required on payments of dividends and, as of January 1, 2019, will be required on redemption proceeds and certain capital gain dividends paid to certain non-U.S. entities that fail to comply with certain information reporting, identification, certification, and related requirements imposed by FATCA. Stockholders and persons intended to hold common stock should consult their tax advisors regarding FATCA and how it may affect an investment in our stock. Our stockholders could experience dilution in their ownership percentage if they do not participate in our dividend reinvestment plan. All dividends declared in cash payable to stockholders that are participants in our dividend reinvestment plan are automatically reinvested in shares of our common stock. As a result, our stockholders that do not participate in our dividend reinvestment plan could experience dilution in their ownership percentage of our common stock over time if we issue additional shares of our common stock. 52 TABLE OF CONTENTS Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such common stock for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so. If we issue preferred stock, debt securities or convertible debt securities, the net asset value and market value of our common stock may become more volatile. We cannot assure you that the issuance of preferred stock and/or debt securities would result in a higher yield or return to the holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock, debt securities or convertible debt would likely cause the net asset value and market value of our common stock to become more volatile. If the dividend rate on the preferred stock, or the interest rate on the debt securities, were to approach the net rate of return on our investment portfolio, the benefit of leverage to the holders of our common stock would be reduced. If the dividend rate on the preferred stock, or the interest rate on the debt securities, were to exceed the net rate of return on our portfolio, the use of leverage would result in a lower rate of return to the holders of common stock than if we had not issued the preferred stock or debt securities. Any decline in the net asset value of our investment would be borne entirely by the holders of our common stock. Therefore, if the market value of our portfolio were to decline, the leverage would result in a greater decrease in net asset value to the holders of our common stock than if we were not leveraged through the issuance of preferred stock. This decline in net asset value would also tend to cause a greater decline in the market price for our common stock. There is also a risk that, in the event of a sharp decline in the value of our net assets, we would be in danger of failing to maintain required asset coverage ratios which may be required by the preferred stock, debt securities, convertible debt or units or of a downgrade in the ratings of the preferred stock, debt securities, convertible debt or units or our current investment income might not be sufficient to meet the dividend requirements on the preferred stock or the interest payments on the debt securities. In order to counteract such an event, we might need to liquidate investments in order to fund redemption of some or all of the preferred stock, debt securities or convertible debt. In addition, we would pay (and the holders of our common stock would bear) all costs and expenses relating to the issuance and ongoing maintenance of the preferred stock, debt securities, convertible debt or any combination of these securities. Holders of preferred stock, debt securities or convertible debt may have different interests than holders of common stock and may at times have disproportionate influence over our affairs. Your interest in us may be diluted if you do not fully exercise your subscription rights in any rights offering. In addition, if the subscription price is less than our net asset value per share, then you will experience an immediate dilution of the aggregate net asset value of your shares. In the event we issue subscription rights, stockholders who do not fully exercise their subscription rights should expect that they will, at the completion of a rights offering pursuant to this prospectus, own a smaller proportional interest in us than would otherwise be the case if they fully exercised their rights. We cannot state precisely the amount of any such dilution in share ownership because we do not know at this time what proportion of the shares will be purchased as a result of such rights offering. In addition, if the subscription price is less than the net asset value per share of our common stock, then our stockholders would experience an immediate dilution of the aggregate net asset value of their shares as a result of the offering. The amount of any decrease in net asset value is not predictable because it is not known at this time what the subscription price and net asset value per share will be on the expiration date of a rights offering or what proportion of the shares will be purchased as a result of such rights offering. Such dilution could be substantial. These dilutive effects may be exacerbated if we were to conduct multiple subscription rights offerings, particularly if such offerings were to occur over a short period of time. In addition, subscription rights offerings and the prospect of future subscription rights offerings may create downward pressure on the secondary market price of our common stock due to the potential for the issuance of shares at a price below our net asset value, without a corresponding change to our net asset value. 53 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Relating to Our Offerings The market price of our securities may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for our securities may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of the companies; • changes in regulatory policies, accounting pronouncements or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs and business development companies; • loss of our qualification as a RIC or business development company; • changes in earnings or variations in operating results; • changes in the value of our portfolio investments; • changes in accounting guidelines governing valuation of our investments; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • departure of WhiteHorse Advisers’ or any of its affiliates’ key personnel; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source or an event of default under a material financing contract. Holders of any preferred stock that we may issue will have the right to elect members of the board of directors and have class voting rights on certain matters. The 1940 Act requires that holders of shares of preferred stock must be entitled as a class to elect two directors at all times and to elect a majority of the directors if dividends on such preferred stock are in arrears by two years or more, until such arrearage is eliminated. In addition, certain matters under the 1940 Act require the separate vote of the holders of any issued and outstanding preferred stock, including changes in fundamental investment restrictions and conversion to open-end status and, accordingly, preferred stockholders could veto any such changes. Restrictions imposed on the declarations and payment of dividends or other distributions to the holders of our common stock and preferred stock, both by the 1940 Act and by requirements imposed by rating agencies, might impair our ability to maintain our qualification as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The trading market or market value of any publicly issued debt securities may fluctuate. Our publicly issued debt securities, if any, may or may not have an established trading market. We cannot assure you that a trading market for our publicly issued debt securities will ever develop or be maintained if developed. In addition to our creditworthiness, many factors may materially adversely affect the trading market for, and market value of, our publicly issued debt securities. These factors include the following: • the time remaining to the maturity of these debt securities; • the outstanding principal amount of debt securities with terms identical to these debt securities; • the ratings assigned by national statistical ratings agencies, if any; • the general economic environment; • the supply of debt securities trading in the secondary market, if any; • the redemption or repayment features, if any, of these debt securities; 54 TABLE OF CONTENTS • the level, direction and volatility of market interest rates generally; and • market rates of interest higher or lower than rates borne by the debt securities. You should also be aware that there may be a limited number of buyers when you decide to sell your debt securities. This too may materially adversely affect the market value of the debt securities or the trading market for the debt securities. Terms relating to redemption may materially adversely affect your return on any debt securities that we may issue. If your debt securities are redeemable at our option, we may choose to redeem your debt securities at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on your debt securities. In addition, if your debt securities are subject to mandatory redemption, we may be required to redeem your debt securities also at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on your debt securities. In this circumstance, you may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as your debt securities being redeemed. Our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our debt securities. Our credit ratings are an assessment by third parties of our ability to pay our obligations. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our debt securities. Our credit ratings, however, may not reflect the potential impact of risks related to market conditions generally or other factors discussed above on the market value of or trading market for the publicly issued debt securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 